{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 2487 1272","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v3_may_june_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V3 May-June 1885 (HPB Hodgson Issue)","mylang":"de"}
Statemellt oj tI~e Committee. 201
PROOEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETINGS IN
May and June, 1885.
The fourteenth and fifteenth General Meetings of the Society were
held at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street,
Pall Mall, on Friday, May 29th, and FridlloJ, June 24th.
Ma. F. W. H. MYERS IN THE CHAIR.
The programme on both occasions included parts of Mr. Hodgson's
account of his investigations in India, and of the paper on "Some
Higher Aspects of Mesmerism," which appear below. At the June
meeting Professor Sidgwick read the conclusions expressed by the Com-
mittee in the following Report.
I.
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE
APPOINTED TO
INVESTIGATE PHENOMENA CONNECTED WITH THE
THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.*
1. STATEMENT AND CONCLUSIONS OF THE COMMITTEE.
In May, 1884, the Council of the Society for Psychical Research
appointed a Committee for the purpose of taking such evidence as to
the alleged phenomena connected with the Theosophical Society as
might be offert'd by members of that body at the time in England, or
as could be collected elsewhere.
The Committee consisted of the following members, witl) power to
add to their number :-Messrs. E. Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore.
H. Sidgwick, and J. H. Stack. They have since added Mr. R. Hodgson
and Mrs. H. Sidgwick 10 their number.
For the convenience of Members who may not have followed the
progress of the Theosophical Society, 0. few words of preliminary
explanation may be added here.
(The Theosophical Society was founded in New York, in 1875, by
Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky, ostensibly for certain philan-
thropic and literary purposes. Its headquarters were removl'd to Indiain
1878, and it made considerable progress among the Hindus a.nd other
• As this Committee bad carried out a large portion of its work before the appoint.
ment of the Committee of Reference, its Report hllll, by exception, not been nbmitted
that body.
P
Digitized by Google
202 8t«irmellt of tile Committee
educated natives.)"The Occult WorId," by Mr.Sinnett,at that time editor
of the Pioneer, introduced the Society to English readers, and that work,
which dealt mainly with phenomena, was succeeded by "Esoteric
Buddhism," in which some tenets of the Occult doctrine, or so-called
"Wisdom-rehgion," were set forth. But with these doctrines the
Committee have, of course, no concern.
The Committee had the opportunity of examining Colonel Olcott
alld Madame Blavatsky, who spent some months in England in
the summer of 1884, and Mr. Mohini M. ChatteIji, a Brahmin
graduate of the University of Calcutta, who accompanied them. Mr.
Sinnett also gave evidence before the Committee; and(they have
11ad before them oral and written testimony from numerous other
members of the Theosophical Society in England, India, and other
countriesJ besides the accounts of phenomena published in "The
Occult World," "Hints on Esoteric Theosophy," TIle TlleoBopltist,
and elsewhere.
( According to this evidence, there exists in Thibet a brotherhood
~ose members have acquired a power over nature which enables them
to perform wonders beyond the reach of ordinary men. Madame
Blavatsky asserts herself to be a Cltela, or disciple of these Brothers
(spoken of also as Adepts and as .lIalwtmas), and they are alleged to have
interested themselves in a special way in the Theosophical Society, and
to have performed many marvels in connection with it. They are said
to be able to cause apparitions of themselves in places where theil"
bodies are not, and not only to appear, but to communicate intelligently
with those whom they thus visit, and themselves to perceivewhat is going
on where their phantasm appears. This phantasmal appearance has
been called by Theosophists the projection of the "astral form."
The evidence before the Committee includes several cases of such
alleged appearances of two Mahatmas, Koot Hoomi and Morya. It is
further alleged that their Chelas, or disciples, are gradually taught this
art, and that Mr. Damoda.r K. Mavalankar in particular, a Theosophist
residing at the headquarters of t~ Society, has acquired it, and has
practised it on several occasions.)It may be observed that these
alleged voluntary apparitions, though carrying us considerably beyond
any evidence that has been collected from other sources, still have
much analogy with some cases that have come undel" the notice of the
Literary Committee.
(But we cannot separate the evidence offered by the Theosophists
for projections of the" astral form," from the evidence which they also
offer for a different class of phenomena, similar to some which are said
by Spiritualists to occur through the agp.Dcy of mediums, and which
involve the action of "psychical" energies on ponderable matter; since
such phenomena are usually described either as (1) accompanying
Digitized by Google
203
apparitions of the Mahatmas or their disciples, 01' (2) at auy rate as
carrying with them a manifest reference to their agency.
The alleged phenomena which come under this head consist-so far
as we need at present take them into account-in the transportation,
even through solid matter, of ponderable objects, including letters,
and of what the Theosophists regard as their dupliclOtion; together
with what is called "precipitation" of handwriting and drawings on
previously blank pa~r. The evocation of sound without pllysical means
is also said to occur. j
In December, 1884, the Committee considered that the time had
come to issue a preliminary and provisional Report. This Report, on
account of its provisional character, and for other reasons, was circu-
lated among Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical
Research only, and not published. In drawing up the present Report,
therefore, the Committee have not assumed that their readers will be
acquainted with the former one. The conclusion then come to was
expressed as follows: "On the whole (though with soma serious
reserves), it seems undeniable that there is a prima facie case, for some
part, at least, of the claim made, which, at the point which the investi·
gations of the Society for Psychical Research have now reached, calUlot,
with consistency, be ignored. And it seems plain that an actual
residence for some months in India of some trusted observer-his actual
intercourse with the persons concerned, Hindu and European, so far
as may be permitted to him-is all almost necessary pre-requisite of
any more definite judgment."
In accordance with this view, a member of the Committet.', Mr. R.
Hod~n, B.A., Scholar of St. John's College, Cambridge,-~­
ceeded to India in November, 1884, and, after carrying 011 his
investigations for three months, returned in April, 1~_
! In the Madras Clu-utian College Magazine for September and
October, 1884, portions of certain letters were published which pur-
ported to have been written by Madame Blavatsky to a M. and
Madame Coulomb, who had occupied positions of trust at the head-
quarters of the TheOsophical Society for some years,but had been expelled
from it in May, 1884, by the Geneml Council of that Society eluring
the absence of Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott in Europe. These
letters, if genuine, unquestionably implicated Madame Blavatsky in a
conspiracy to produce marvellous phenomena fraudulently; but they were
declared by her to be, in whole or in part, forgeries. Oneimportant object
of Mr. Hodgson's visit to India was to ascertain, if possible, by examining
the letters, and by verifying facts implied or stated in them, and tho
explanations of the Coulombs concerning them, whether the letters
were genuine or not. The editor'of the Cl,ristian College Maga::.ine
had already, as Mr. Hodgson found, taken considerable pains to
p 2
Digitized by Google
20-1 Statemellt of tile Oommittee
ascertaiu this; but he had not been able to obtain the judgment of
a recognised expert in handwriting. Accordingly lip selection of the
letters, amply sufficient to prove the conspiracy, was entrusted by the
editor, (in whose charge Madame Coulomb had placed them,) to Mr.
Hodgson, who sent it home before his own return. These, together
with some letters undoubtedly written by Madame Blavatsky, were
submitted to the well-known expert in handwriting, Mr. Netherclift,
and also to Mr. Sims, of the British Museum. These gentlemen came
independently to the conclusion that the letters were written by
Madame Blavatsky. This opinion is entirely in accordance with the im-
pression produced on the Committee by the general aspect of the letters,
as well as by their characteristic style, and much of their contents.
The Committee further desired that Mr. Hodgson should, by cross·
examination and otherwise, obtain evidence tbat might assist them iu
judging of the value to be attached to the testimony of some of the
principal ,vitnesses; that he should examine localities where pheno-
mena had occurred, with a view to ascertaining whether the explanations
by trickery, that suggested themselves to the Committee, or any other
such explanations, were possible; and iu particular, as already said,
that he should, as far as possible, verify the statements of the Coulombs
with a view to judging whether their explanations of the phenomena
were plausible. For it is obvious that no value for the purposes of
psychical research call be attached to phenomena where persons like
the Coulombs have been concerned, if it can be plausibly shown that
they might themselves have produced them: while, at the same time,
their unsupported assertion that they did produce them, cannot be
~en by itself as evidence. ..
( After hearing what Mr. Hodgson had to say on these points, and
after carefully weighing all the evidence before them, the Committee
unanimously arrived at the following conclusions :-
(1) That of the letters put forward by Madame Coulomb, all those,
at lfl8.8t, which the Committee have had the opportunity of
themselves examining, and of submitting to the judgment of
experts, are undoubtedly written by Madame Blavatsky; and
suffice to prove that she has been engaged in a long-continued
combination with other persons to produce by ordinary means
a series of apparent marvels for the support of the Theosophic
movement.
(2) That, in particular, the Shrine at Adyar, through which letters
purporting to come from Mahatmas were received, was embo-
ratelyarranged with a view to the secret insertion of letters and
other objects through a sliding panel at the back, and regularly
used for this purpose by Madame Blavatsky or her agent-s.
(3) l'hat there is consequently a very strong general presumption
Digitized by Google
01, Pl,enOmCllQ cOImecfetl trill, Theosophy. 205
that all the marvellous narratives put forward as evidence of
the existence and occult power of the ~Iahatmas are to be
explained as due either (a) to deliberate deception carried out
by or at the instigation of Madame Blavatsky, or (6) to spon-
taneous illusion, or hallucination, or unconscious misrepl'esen-
ta.t!.on or invention on the part of the witnesses.
(4) rIilttafter examining Mr. Hodgson's report of the results of his
personal inquiries, they are of opinion that the testimony to
these marvels is in no case sufficient, taking amount and
character together, to resist the force of the general presump-
tion above mentioned.
Accordingly, they think that it would be a waste of time to prolong
the investigation.
As to the correctness of Mr. Hodg'lOn's explanation of particular
marvels, they do not feel co.lled upon to express any definite conclusion;
since on the one hand, they are not in a position to endorse every detail
of this explanation, and on the other hand they have satisfied them-
selves t\s to the thorougbness of Mr. Hodgson's investigation, and l\ave
complete reliance on his impartiality, and they recognise that his means
of arriving at a correct conclusion are far beyond any to which they call
lay claim.
There is only one special point on which the Committee think
themselves bound to state explicitly a modification of their original
view. They said in effect in their First Report that if certain phenomena
were not genuine it was very difficult to suppose that Colonel Olcott
was not implicated in the fraud. But after considering the evidence that
Mr. Hodgson has laid before them as to Colonel Olcott's extraordinary
credulity, and inaccuracy in observation and inference, they desire to
disclaim any intention of imputing wilful deception to that gentleman.
The Committee have no desire that their conclusion should be
accepted without examination, and wish to afford the reader every
opportunity of forming a judgment for himself. They therefore append
lIr. Hodgson's account of his investigation, which will be found to form
by far the largest and most important part of the present Report. In
it, and the appendices to it, is incorporated enough of the evidence
given by members of the Theosophical Society to afford the reader ample
opportunity of judging of both its quantity and quality.
There is, however, evidence for certain phenomena which did not
occur in India, and are not directly dealt with in Mr. Hodgson's Report.
Accounts of these will be found at p. 382, with some remarks on them
J'y Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
The report of Mr. Netherclift 011 the handwriting of the Blavo.tsky-
Coulomb letters will be found at p. 381. Extracts from the letters
themselves are given in Mr. Hodgson's Report, pp. 211-216.
Digitized by Google
206 Statemcllt of tlte Oommittee
The authorship of the letters attributed to Koot Hoomi, which
are nry numerous, and many of them very long, is fully discussed in
Mr. Hodgson's Report. It may be mentioned here that it is maintained
by some that the contents of these letters are such as to preclude the
possibility of their having been written by Madame Blavatsky. This
has never bren the opinion of the Committee, either as regards the
published letters or those that have been privately shown to them in
manust:lript. Those who wish to form an independent opinion on the
su~jeci are referred to "The Occult World" and" Esoteric Buddhism,"
which contain many of the letters thenlselV'E:'s, and much matter derived
from others.
,. , /Tn- this connection may be conveniently mentioned what the Com-
-/mittee, in theil· First Report, called the most serious blot which had then
been pointed out in the Theosophic evidence. A certain letter, in the
Koot Hoomi handwriting, and addressed avowedly by Koot Hoolni,
from Thibet, to lIr. Sinnett, in 1880, was proved by Mr. H. KiddIe,
of New York, to contain a long passage apparently plagiarised from a
speech of Ml.. KiddIe's, made at Lake Pleasant, August 15th, 1880,
and reported in the BantlM' oj Light some two months or more previous
to the date of Koot Hoomi's letter. Koot Hoomi replied (some'
months later) that the passages were no doubt quotations from Mr.
KiddIe's speech, which he had become cognisant of in some occult
manner, and which he had stored up in his mind, but that the appear-
ance of plagiarism was due to the imperfect precipitation of the letter
by the Chela, or disciple, charged with the task. Koot Hoomi then
gave what he asserted to be the true version of the letter as dictated
and recovered by his own scrutiny apparently from the blurred pre-
cipitation. In this fuller version the quoted passages were given a.~
quotations, and mixed with controversial matter. Koot Hoomi
explained the peculiar form which the error of precipitation had
assumed by saying that the quoted passages had been more distinctly
impressed on his own mind, by an effort of memory, than his own
interposed remarks; and, that inasmuch as the whole composition hacl
been feebly and inadequately projected, owing to his own physical
fatigue at the time, the high lights only, so to speak, had come out;
there had been many illegible passages, which the Chela had omitted.
The Chela, he said, wished to submit the letter to Koot Hoomi for
revision, but Koot Hoomi declined for want of time.
The weakness of this explanation was pointed out (in Ligllt) by 1\11-.
Massey, who showed (among other points) that the quoted sentences
seemed to have been ingeniously twisted into a polemical sense, precisely
opposite to that in which they were written.
And more lately (in LigM, September 20tll, 1884) Mr. KiddIe lias
shown tha.t the passage thus restored by no means comprises the whole
Digitized by Google
011 PMnomena connected 1&itI~ Theosopl,y. 207
of the unackllowledged quotations; and, moreover, that these newly-
indicated quotations are antecedent to those already admitted by Koot
Hoomi, and described as forming the introduction to a fresh topic of
criticism. The proof of a deliberate plagiarism aggravated by a.
fictitious defence, is therefore irresistible.
In conclusion, it is necessary to sta.te that this is not the only
e,idence of fraud in connection with the Theosophical Society and
Madame Blavatsky, which the Committee had before them, priOlO to, or
independently of, the pUblication of the Blavatsky-Ooulomb corre-
spondence. Mr. C. C. Massey had brought before them evidence
which convinced both him and them that Madame Blavatsky had, in
1879, arranged with a medium, then in London, to cause a " Mahatma"
letter to reach him in an apparently" mysterious" way.) The par-
ticulars will be found at p. 397.
It fOl'ms no part of our duty to follow Madame Blavatsky into other
fields. But with reference to the somewhat varied lines of activity
which Mr. Hodgson's Report suggests for her, we may say that we
cannot consider any of these as beyond the range of her powers. The
homage which her immediate friends have paid to her abilities has been
for the most part of an unconscious kind; and some of them may still be
unwilling to credit her with mental resources which they have hitherto
been so far from suspectink. For our own part, we regard her neither
as the mouthpiece of hidden seers, nor as a mere vulgar ad~·enturess ;
we think that she has achieved a title to permanent remembrance as one
of the most accomplished, ingenious, and interesting impostors in history.
2. ACCOUNT OF PERSONAL INVESTIGATIONS IN INDIA,
AND DISCUSSION OF THE AUTHORSHIP OF THE
"KOOT HOOMI" LETTERS.
By RICHARD HODGSOS.
PART I.
In No,·ember of last year I proceeded to India for the purpose of
investigating on the spot the evidence of the phenomena connected with
the Theosophical Society.
Itwill be known to most of my readers that M. and Madame Coulomb,
who had been attached to the Theosophical Society for several years in
positions of tlllSt, had charged Madame Blavatsky with fraud, and had
adduct'd in support of their cbarge various letters and other documents
alleged by them to have bep,n written by Madame Blayatsky. Some of
these documents were published in the Madras Christian Collp.ge
J/a:Ja::illf! uf September and October, 1884, and, if genuine, ullquestion-
Digitized by Google
208 Mr. Hodgson'8 Report
ably implicated Madame Blavatsky in trickery. Madame Blavatsky,
however, asserted that they were to a great extent forgeries, that at
any rate the incriminating portions were. One of the most important
points, therefore, in the investigation was the determination of the
genuineness of these disputed documents.
It was also highly important to determine the competency of the
witnesses to phenomena, and to ascertain, if possible, the trustworthiness
in particular of three primary witnesses, viz., Mr. Damodar K.
Mava.lankar, Mr. Babajee D. Nath, and Colonel Olcott, upon whose
trustworthiness the validity of the evidence which in our First Report
we considered pl-imA facie important, mainly depended.
Before proceeding it may be well for me to state that the general
attitude which I have for years maintained with respect to "arious
classes of alleged phenomena. which form the subje.!t of investigation
by our Society enabled me, as I believe, to approach the task I bad
before me with complete impartiaJity; while the conclusions which I
held and still hold concerning the important positive results achieved by
our Society in connection with the phenomena of Telepathy,-of which,
moreover, I have had instances in my own experience, both spontaneous
and experimental, and both as agent and percipient,-formed a further
safeguard of my readiness to deal with the evidence set before me
without any prejudice as to the principles involved. Indeed, whatever
prepossessions I may ha\'e had were distinctly in favour of Occulti,;m
and Madame Rlavatsky-a fact which, I think I may venture to say, is
well known to several leading Theosophists.
During my three months' investigation I. was treated with
perfect courtesy, both at the headquarters of the Theosophical Society
and by the gentlemen connected with the Jladra8 Cltristian College
.JIagazine. I 'thus had every opportunity of examining the witnesses
for the Theosophical phenomena, and of comparing in detail the disputed
documents with the undoubted handwriting of Madame Blavatsky.
After 0. very careful examination of the most important of these
documents, and after considering the circumstantial evidence offered by
Theosophists in proof of their being forgeries, I have come to the
assured condusion that they are genuine.
And it seems desirable here t:> mention a fact to which attelltion
has already been drawn by the editor of the Jfadras Christian College
.Magazine, in his reply to an unfounded charge brought against him hy
Theosophists, who accused the authorities of the magazine of haYIng
published the disputed documents without any guarantee of theil'
genuineness. So far was this from being the case that prior. to their
publication of the documents they obtained the best evidence procurable
at Madras as to the genuineness of the handwriting. There was indeed
no professional expert in handwriting to be consulted, but the judgll1mts
Digitized by Goo
0" PileI/omena cOl/nect(d lI:ith The080p1'1l. 209
which were obtained included, among others, the opinions of gentlemen
(!ualified by many years' banking experience.
From these Blavatsky-Coulomb documents it a}'pears that Mahatma
letters were prepared and sent by Madame Blavatsky, that Koot Hoomi
is a fictitious personage, that supposed "astral forms" of the Mahatmas
were confederates of Madame Blavatsky in disguise-generally the
Coulombs; that alleged transportation of cigarettes and other objects,
"integration" of letters, and allied phenomena.-some of them in con-
nection with the sCHl811~d Shrine at Adyar-were ingenious trickeries,
carried out by Mo.dame Blavatsky, with the assists.nce chiefly of the
Coulombs.
But further investigations were required. Other apparently im-
portant phenomena had come before us which were not directly
discredited by the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters. Among these phenomena,
for example, were some appearances of Mahatmas, many instances of
the alleged precipits.tion of writing independently of Madame Blavatsky
and the Coulombs; and there were alio the" astral" journeys of Mr.
Damodar. Not only did these and other phenomena. require special
investigation, but it was desira.ble that some confirmation should be
obtained of the genuineness of the disputed letters-that any con-
clusions concerning them should not depend merely and exclusively
upon questions of style and handwriting. To this end it was necessary
that I should examine the important witnesses involved in the inci-
dents mentioned in these documents. It may be added that additional
light was required on some of the phenomena. mentioned in "The Occult
'Vorld," and that the authorship of the K. H. letters could 110t be put
aside as not in some degree bearing on our research.
I may now express in brief the conclusions to which I was gradually
forced, o.fter what I believe to be a thorough survey of the evidence
for Theosophical phenomena.
The conclusion which I formet1, that as a question of handwriting
the disputed letters were written by Madame Blavatsky, is corrobora.ted
1>y the results of my inquiries into the details of the related incidents.
For Mr. Damodar'll "astral" journeys I could find no additional
evidence which rendered pre-arrangement ill any way more difficult than
H appeared to be under the circumsts.nces narrated to us at the time of
our First Report, when we considered that collusion between Madame
Blavatsky and Mr. Damodar was not precluded. On the contral·Y.
my inquiries have revealed that pre-arrangement between ~ladame
Blavatsky and MI'. Damodar was much easier than we then supposed.
The accounts gh-en by those witnesses who, we thought, might contri-
bute valuable corroborative evidence in the way of showing that such
pre-arrangement was not possible, tended rather to show the reverse.
The cases, therefore, rested entirely upon the evidence of Mr.
Digitized by Google
210 M,·. Hodg8on'8 Rl'pol't
Damodar and Madame Blavatsky. But early ill my investigation events
occurred which impelled me towards the belief that no reliance could be
placed on Mr. Damodar, and after disco\'ering the unmistakable false-
hoods which marked hisown evidence, I could come to no other conclusion
than that he had co-operated with Madame Bla.vatsky in tile production
of spurious marvels.
I was also, for reasons that will hereafter appear, compelled to dis-
card altogether the evidence of Mr. Babajee D. Nath, who appeared to
us at the time of our First Report to be a primary witness for the
ordinary physical existence of the Mahatmas.
The testimony of Colonel Olcott himself I found to be funda,..
mentally at variance with fact in so many important points that it
became impossible for me to place the slightest value upon the evidence
he had offered. ~ut in saying this I do not mean to suggest any doubt
as to Colonel Olcott's honesty of purpose.
In short, my lengthy examinations of the numerous array of
witnesses to the phenomena showed that they were, as a body,
excessively credulous, excessively deficient in the powers of common
observation,-a.nd too many of them prone to supplement that deficiency
by culpable exaggeration.
Nevertheless, I refrained as long as possible from pronouncing even
to myself any definite conclusion on the subject, but after giving the
fullest consideration to the statements made by the Theosophic witnesses,
after a careful inRpection both of the present headquarters of the Theo-
sophical Society in l\Iadras and of the old headquarters in Bombay,
whel't! so many of the alleged phenomena occurred, I finally had no
doubt whatever that the phenomena. connected with the Theosophical
Society were part of a huge fraudulent system worked by Madame
Blavatsky with the assistance of the Coulombs and several other
confederates, and that not a single genuine phenomenon could be found
among them all. And I may add that though, of course, I have not,
in coming to this conclusion, trusted to any unverified statements of
the Coulombs, still neither by fl'6<}uent cross-examination nor by inde-
pendent invest.igation of their statements wherever circumstances per-
mitted, have I been able to break down any allegatiol1s of theirs which
were in any way material.
It is needless for me to enter into all the minutire of so complicated
II.n im·estigation. It would in truth be impossible either to reproduce
all the palterings and equivocations in the evidence offered to me, or to
describe with any approach to adequacy how my personal impressions
of many of the witnesses deepened my conviction of the dishonesty
woven throughout their testimony. What follows, however, will, I
think, be more than enough to convince any impartial inquirer of the
justice of the conclusion which I have reached.
Digitized by Google
0" Phenomena connected witl, The08oph!l. 211
I begin by giving some extracts from the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters
which will justify the assertions which I have made above concerning
the contents of these documents. The asterisk (*) placed against some
of the extracts means that the letters from which those extracts are
taken were among those examined by Mr. Netherclift.
I.-THE SASSOON TELEGRAM.*
The following is an extract from a letter purporting to be written
by Madame Blavatsky from Poona to Madame Coulomb at Madras in
October, 1883 :-
Now, dear, let us change the programme. Whether _tMag succeeds
or not I must try. Jacob Saaaoon, the happy proprietor of a crore of rupees,
with whose family I dined last night, is anxious to become a Theosophist.
He is ready to give 10,000 rupees to buy and repair the headquarters; he said
to Colonel (Jt~ekiel, his cousin, arranged all this) if only he saw a little
phenomenorl, got the aaaurance tha.t the Mahatmas could hear what was
said, or give him some otMr sign of their existence (1! I) Well, this letter
will reach you the 26th, Friday; will you go up to the Shrine and ask K. H.
(or Chriat~folo) to send me a telegram that would reach me about 4 or 5 in
the afternoon, lII\Ille day, worded thus :-
.. Your conversation with Mr. Jacob Saaaoon reached Master just now.
Were the latter even to satisfy him, still the doubter would hardly find the
moral courage to connect himself with the Society.
.. RAMALlNGA DEB."
If this reaches me on the 26th, eyen in the evening, it will still produce a
tremendous impreaalon. Addreaa, care of N. Khandallavalla, Judge,
POONA. J E FERAl LB BESTE. Cela codtera quatre ou cinq roupies. Cela ne
fait rUli.
Yours truly,
(Signed) H. P. B.
The envelope which Madame Coulomb shows as belonging to this
letter bears the postmarks Poona, October 24th; 1tladras, October
26th; 2nd delivery, Adyar, October 26th; (as to which Madame-
Blavatsky has written in the margin of my copy of Madame Coulomb's
pamphlet: t "Cannot the cover have contained another letter1 Funny
evidence !") Madame Coulomb also shows in connection with this lettel'"
an official receipt for a telegram sent in the name of Ramalinga Deh
from the St. Thome office, at Madras, to Madame Blavatsky, at Poona.
on October 26th, which contained the same number of words as above.
2, 3, 4.-TBE ADYAR SAUCER.
The following are said to have been written by Madame Bla,'atsky
from Ootacamund to M. and Madame Coulomb at Madras, in July or
August, 1883:-
t "Some Ac.'c.'ount of my Intercourse with Madame BlaYat!lkr," &c.'.
Digitized by Google
212 Mr. 00«g801l'8 RejJol·t
2.*
lIa bien chllre Amie,
VOU8 n'avez pas be80in d'attendre I'homme "Punch." Pourvu que ceIa
80it fait en presence de personnes qui lIont rellpectablell bel/id~3 our own
familiar muffs. Je voullllupplie de Ie f~ ala preJUillre occasion.
3.*
Cher l\Ionmeur Coulomb,
C'eat je crois cela que VOllS devez avoir. Tachez done si VOU8 croyez que
~ela va rilUllllir d'avoir plus d'audience que nOB imbecile.! (Wmutiq1lU seulement.
Cela m6rite la peine-Car la IIOUCOUpe d'Adyar pourrait devenir historique
~omme la taaae de Simla. Soubbaya ici et je n'ai gullre Ie tempi d'ierire a
mOll ai3e, 11. VOU8 mea honneurs et remerciments.
(Signed) H. P. B.
This letter is said by Madame Coulomb to have contained the
following enclosure :-
To the IImall audience present as witnellll. Now l\Iadame Coulomb has
-occasion to auure herself that the devil is neither as black nor as wicked as
he is generally represented. Tho mischief is easily repaired.-K. H.
4.*
Yendredi.
?tIll. chllre Madame Coulomb et l\Iarquis,t
Voici Ie moment de nous montrer-1I1' '11.011-' CachO/I' pall. Le General part
pour a1faires 11. Madras et y sera lundi et y pauera deux jours. 11 est
President de la SocieM ici et veut voir Ie Mll'i/lt. C'est probable qu'il fera
une question quelconque et peut litre se bomera-t-il aregarder. Mais il est
sur qu'il s'.ttend l& un pMnomllne car il me l'a dit. Dans Ie premiel' cas
suppliez K. H. que vous voyez tous lea jours ou Cristofolo de 80utenir
l'honneur de familIe. Ditea lui done qu'une fleur suffimit, et que " le put de
,damb"e cauait soua Ie poids de la curiosiM il serait bon de Ie remplacer CI£
~'C moment. Damn les autreB. Celui-Ill. vaut Bon pesant d'or. Per l'amor del
Dio ou de qui \"oua voudrez ne manque.;: pall cette occal/ilm CRr elte 11e se
ropctera plus. Je ne suis pas la, et c'eat celo. qui cst beau. Jil me tie a.
,"oua et je VOU8 supplie de ne pas me desaPPOilltel' car tous mes projets et
mon aveniravec vous tous-{car je vais avoir une maison ici pour passer le8
six mois de l'ann6e et elle sera a moi a la Soeicw et vous ne 80uffrirez plus
tIe III. chaleur comme VOU8 Ie faites, si j'y reullllis).
* * .. .. .. ..
Voici Ie moment de f.ire quelquechose. TOUl'l1ez lui la tete au General
~t iI fera tout pour vous surtout si vous etea avec lui au moment du
Christophe. J e vous envoie un ell ('(l8-e vi BalUto. Le Colonel vient ici
tIu 20 au 25. Je reviemirni vers Ie milieu de Septelllbre•
.\ VOUB de coeur,
LrsA MELAxcoNI('A.
*
t Marquis and Marquise are Da.meR gi,'en 1Iy lIadame Blayabky to lI. and
~Iadame Coulomb.
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena conntcted u:ith Theosoph!/. 213
The en caB referred to is the following :-
1 can say nothing tWlr.-and will let you know at Ooty.
(Addressed) GENEBU MOBGA~. (Signed) K.H.
Extracts 5 and 6, fl"Om letters written in 1880 by Madam!}
Blavatsky, apparently in Simla, to Madame Coulomb in Bombay,
throw some light upon the alleged transportation of cigarettes, &0.
5.
1 enclose an envelope with a cigarette paper in it. I will drop another
lKil/ of a cigarette behind the Queen's head where I dropped my hair the
same day or Saturday. Is the hair still there 1 and 1\ cigarette still under
the cOlIer?
Madame Blavatsky has written" on the fly-leaf of the letter from
which this passage is taken:
Make a half cigarette of this. Take Cnl'e "/ the edgea.
And on a slip of paper said by Mada.me Coulomb to have accompanied
the cigarette-paper referred to :
Boll a cigarette of this half and tie it with H. P. B.'s hair. Put it on
the top of the cupboard made by Wimbridge ~ the furthest comer near the-
wall on your right. Do it quick.
6.*
Je crois que Ie mouchQir est un coup manque. Laiuona cela. Mais
toutes lea instructions qu'elles restent .taftl quo pour lea Maharajas de Lahore-
ou de Benarea. Tous BOnt fous pour voir quelquech08e. J e vous 6crirai
d'Amritair ou Lahore, mel cheveux feraient bien sur Ia vieille tour de Sion
maia vous 1es mettrez dans une envelope, un sachet curieux et Ie pendrez en
Ie cacunt ou bien ~ Bombay--ehoisiBBez bon endroit et-Ecrivez moi a Am-
ritair poate t"eatante, puis vera Ie lor du mois aLahore. Adresaez votre 1ettre
ll. mon nom. Bien de plus pour S.-il en a vu aBlez. Peur de manquer Ia.
poste, ~ revoir. Avez-vous misla cigarette sur Ia petite armoire de Wimb-
7.
Oh mon pauvre Christofolo! nest donc mort et vous l'avez tuo 7 Oh mao
chare amie si vou saviez comme je voudraia Ie voir revivre! ,. * *
Ma benediction k mon pauvre Christofolo. Toujoura k vous,
H. P. B.
This extract is said by Madame Coulomb to be Madame Blavatsky's
lament for the destruction of the dummy head and shoulders employed
for the Koot Hoomi a.ppearances, Christofolo being the "occult ,.
name for Koot Hoomi. Madame Coulomb declares that she had burnt
the dummy apparatus" in a fit of disgust at the imposture," but that
Digitized by Google
214 MI'. Hodg8M's Report
she afterwards made another. The following letter (8) is suggestive
in several ways. The Coulombs are evidently supposed to be familiar
with the habits and customs of the Brothers. "La Roi" is said
by Madame Coulomb to have refen-ed to Mr. Padshah, and "les
deux lettres" sent by Madame Blavatsky to Madame Coulomb
(under the name of E. Cutting) appear to have been Mahatma.
-documents. General instructions for the transmission of such docu-
ments are exemplified by (9) and (10).
8.
Mes chers Amis,
Au nom du ciel ne croyez pas flue je vous oublie. Je n'ai pas Ie
temps materiel pour respirer-voila tout! Nous sommes dans la plus
yrallde crise, et je ne doiB pcu PERDRE LA. TETE. J e ne puis ni ose rien vous
cerire. Mais VOUB devez comprendre qu'il est ablOlumellt nicessail'e que
quelquechose arrive a Bombay tant que je suis ici. Le Roi et Dam. doirent
voir et ~voir la visite d'un de nos Freres et-s'il cst poBBibie que Ie premier
reIWoive une Iettre que j'enverrai. Mais les voir il est plus neceBBa.ire encore.
Elle devrait lui tomber sur la tAte comme la premi~re et je suis en train de
8upplier "Koothoomi" de Ia lui envoyer. Il doit battre Ie fer tant qu'il est
chaud. Agissez ill<iepe'lidammelit de moi, mais dans lea habitudea et customs
odes Fr~res. S'il pou~ait arriver quelquechose a Bombay qui faBBe parler tout
1e monde--ee semit merveilleux. Mais quoi! Lea Freres sont inexorables.
Oh cher M. Coulomb, sauvez la situation et faites ce qu'its vous demandent.
•I'ai la ti~vre toujours un peu. On l'aurait a moins! Ne voilll.-t-il pas que
Mr. Bume veut voir Koothoomi a,tralemeltt de loin, s'il veut, pour pouvoir
dire au monde qu' il sait qu'il enste et l'ecrire dans tous les journaux car
jusqu'a present il ne peut dire qu'une chose c'est qu'il ct'oil fermement et
positivement mais non qu'ille aa~t parcel}u'ill'a flU de IU Ye1lX comme Damo-
dar, Padshah, etc. Entin en voila d'un probI~me! Comprenez donc que je
deviens folIe, et prenez pithS d'une pauvre veuve. Si quelquechose d'inoui
a.rrivait a Bombay il n'y a rien que Mr. Bume ne faBBe pour Koothoomi sur
sa demande. Mais K. B. ne peut pas venir ici, car les lois occultes ne Ie lui
permettent pas. Entin, arevoir. Ecrivez moi. A vous de coour,
H. P. B.
Demain je vous enverrai les deux lettres. Allez les chercller a la poste 11.
,"otre nom, E. Cl£tting=Ooulomb.
P.S.-Je voudrais que K. B. ou quclqu'un d'autre se fasse voir avant Ie
rc,<u des Iettres !
9.
1\-Ia cllere Anne,
Je n'ai pas une minute pour rcpondre. Jc vous supplie fa;tes parvenir
cette Iettre (here inclosed) a Damodar in. a miraculom tray. It is very t'tl'y
important. 011 ma eMrc que je Buis done malheureuse! De toUB cotes des
desagrements et des horreurs. Toute avous,
B. P. B.
Digitized by Google
01, PMnomena cOJIIlcc/cd ,riM Theosophy. 215
10.*
Veuillez 0 Sorciere lI. mille ressources demander h Ch-ri~ofolo quand vous
Ie verrez de transmettre la lettre ci-incluse par voie aerienno astrale ou
n'lmporte comment. C'est tres important. A vous ma chere. Je vous
cmbrasse bien.-Yours faithfully,
LUNA MELAxC'oYICA.
Je 1101" aupplie FAITES LE ~IEN.
In the following extracts from letters said to have been written from
OotacaDlund in 1883, Madame Blavatsky apparently spenks of the
Koot Hoomi documents provided by her as " mes epfants."
11.*
Cher Marquis. • . . Montrez ou envoyez lui [Drunodar] Ie papier ou
Ie alip (Ie petit sacristi pas Ie grand, car ce dernierdoit aller se coucher pres
de son auteur dana Ie temple mllral) avec l'ordre de vous les fournir. J'ai
r89u une lettre qui a force notre mo1tre cheri K. H. d'ecrire ses ordres aussi
a Mr. Damodar et autrea. Que la Marquise lea lise. Cela BlIjfil'a je vons
l'assure. Ah si je pouvais avoir ici mon Christofolo cheri! • • • Cher
Marqui&-Je vouslivre Ie destin de mea enfant.. Prenez en sCJin et fait.ea
leur faire des miracles. Peut etre il serait mieux de f&ire tomber celui-ci sur
la tete 1
H.P.B.
Cachetez l'enfant apres l'aooir In. Enregistrez vos lettres s'il s'y trouve
quelquechoae-autrement non.
(12) (13) and (14) are also said by Madame Ooulomh to have been
'written from Ootacamund, during Madame Blnvatsky's visit there ill
1883.
12.*
La postepartmachere. Je n'ai qu'un instant. Votre lettre arrivee trop
tard. Oui, laissez Srinavas Rae se proaterner devant Ie ,hl'ine et s'il
delDSnde ou non, je vous supplie lui fBire passer cette reponse par K. H.
i!ar il s'y attend; je 84" ee q"'U r.wt. Demain vous aurez lwe grande
lettre! Grandes nouvelles. Merci.
H.P.B.
This apparently refers to a. consoling Koot Hoomi letter provided Ly
)Iadame Blavatsky for Mr. P. Sreenevas Rao, Judge in the Court of
Small Causes, Madras, and actually received by him.
13.
l\1a chere Amie,-On me dit (Damodar) que Dewan Bahadoor
Ragoonath Rae lc President de la Societe veut mettre quelquechose dans
Ie temple. Dans Ie cas qu'il Ie fasse voici la reponse de Christofolo. Pour
Dieu arrangez cela et nons sommes lI. cheval. Je vous embrasse e l'i saluto.
Mes amours au Marquis.-Yours sincerely,
LUNA MELANCOXICA.
Ecrivez done.
Digitized by Google
216 M,'. Hodgsou's Report
I have ascertained that Mr. .Ragoonath Rao did place an inquiry
in the Shrine, but left without having received an answer, although it
would seem from the above that Madame Blavatsky had provided
"Christofolo's" reply. M. Ooulomb declares that he feared tlle reply
might not be suitable, because Mr. Ragoonath Rao had so.id that only
an adept could answer his question,and moreover that he did not wish "to
make fun with this gentleman;" tha.t he therefore wrote to Madame
Blavatsky, enclosing the Sanskrit document placed by Mr. Ragoonatb
Rao in the Shrine, stating that he was afraid that the reply she had
furnished beforehand might not be applicahle, and asking her to send
him a telegram if she still wished the Koot Hoomi (Christofolo) reply
to be placed in the Shrine. :rtf. Coulomb received, he says, an answer
by letter, which is given in extract (14), -from which it would appear
that Madame B!avatsky considered the reply, in consequence of the
delay, to be no longer suitfl.ble. The Koot Hoomi document in que,tioll,
which, the Coulombs assert, remained in their possession, and whil'h
they produce, consists chiefly of Sanskrit, but there is also a note in
English, and this note exhibits signs of Madame Blavatsky's handiwork.
such as are found in most of the Koot Hoomi writings. (See Part II.)
14....
Tropo tatdH Cher Marquis. Si eeque "Christophe" a en main eut ete
donn4 lur l'heure en reponse cela serait beau et c'est pourquoi je l'ai envoye.
Maintenant cela n'a plul de lens commlm. Votre lettre m'est arrivee lI.
fijh. du soir presque 7 heurea et je savaia que Ie petit Puncll venait acinq [
Quand pouvaia jo done envoyer la depAche 7 Elle serait arrlv6e Ie lendemain
OQ aprel son depart. Ah I quelle occasion de perdue I Entin. nfaut que je
VOUB prie d'une chose. Je puis revenir avec Ie Colonel et c'est tres probable
que je reviendrai, mais i1 se peut que je reate ici jusqu 'au mois d'Octobro,
Dans ee CaB }lOur Ie jour ou deux que Ie Colonel scra ala maison it (aut ",~
nn1lOtJtr lea cl~d.u Shrine. Envoyez-Ia moi par Ie chemin souterrain. Jo
]a verrai npose1' et eela Buffit j mais je ne veux pas qu'en mon absenc., on
examine la luna mela'lCUllw du cupboard, at Ctla 8e7'U f!ZIJtnifit si je ne sUla
pas l~. J'ai Ie trac. n faut que je revienne! Mail Dieu que eel",
m'embete donc que maintenant tout Ie monde d'ie& vieudra me voir 1&. Tout
Ie monde voudra voir et-J'BN AI A88BZ.
By II Punch," the Conlombs say, is meant :Mr. Ragoonath Rao. It
seems clear from the second portion of the above extract that the Shrine
would not bear examination, that there was some secret construction ill
connection with it of which Oolonel Olcott was ignorant, and which he
must have no opportunity of discovering. Madame Ooulomb states that
" luna melanconica" here means the opening at the 'btlck of the Shrinp.
Hence, in case Colonel O]cott should return to Madras before Machme
Blavatsky, the key of the Shrine was to be concealed. The passage is a
Digitized by Google
Ol~ Phenomena connected tcith Tlu08ophy. 217
testimonial to Colonel Olcott's honesty, though perhaps hardly to his
perspicacity.
One of the first points to ascertain with regard to these letters is
whether Madame Blavatsky did treat M. and Madame Coulomb
with the complete confidence which their tone throughout implies.
Plenty of evidence could he adduced to show that they were treated
with confidence both by Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, and
that they held positions of trust (M. Coulomb being Librarian and
Madame Coulomb being Assistant Corresponding Secretary of the
Society); but it is, I think, sufficiently proved by the fact that when
Madame Blavatsky was at Ootacamulld, in 1883, Madame Coulomb
had charge of the keys of the Shrine; and that when Madame
Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott left Madras to come to Europe in
February, 1884, M. and Madame Coulomb were left in complete
cha.rge of Madame Blavatsky's rooms. Further evidence may be found
in a letter of Colonel Olcott, quoted (with some omissions not specified
by Dr. Hartmann) in Dr. Hartmann's pamphlet, "Report of observa-
tiCAU/ made during a nine months' stay at tlte Headquarters of the Theo-
sophical Society," pp. 36, 37 ; and in anoth..r letter from Colonel Olcott,
which I have seen, from which it appears that he had wished 1\1.
Coulomb to be a member of the Board of Control of the Theosophical
Society. Moreover, Madame Blavatsky herself spoke of Madame Cou-
lomb in Indian newspapers, of 1880, as "a lady guest of mine," and
as "an old friend of mine whom I had known 10 years ago at Cairo,"
and by admitting nearly all the non-incriminating portions of the
Blavatsky-Coulomb documents to be in substance genuine, clearly proves
that she was in the habit of addressing Madame Coulomb in a very
familiar tone.
I may now procood to show, in one or two instances, what evidence
there is apart from the style and handwriting of the letters tending to
establish their genuineness.
I will begin with number 1, relating to the Sassoon telegram. The
matter is rather complicated, and the details of my invpst!gation are
given in Appendix I. Here I will briefly state the results. ( Firstly, it
became clear to me from conversations with Messrs. A D. 'and M. D.
Ezekiel, who spent much time with Madame Blavatsky during her visit at.
Poona in October, 1883, and from the written statement of Mr. N. D.
Khandalmla., in whose house she stayed, that the actual circumstances
during her stay there were quite consistent with the letter. Secondly,
I have been unahle to obtain any trustworthy evidence for the ex.istence
of such a person as Ramalinga Deb, who was represented by Madam€'
Blavatskyas a Chela, residing in Madras, of the Mahatma with wholll
she professed to be in occult communication. Thirdly, a careful COlll-
parison of Madame Blavatsky's attempt to disprove the genuineness of
Q
Digitized by Goo
218 Mr. Hodgson" !lpport
this letter (see Appendix I.) with the statemElnts of Messrs. Ezekiel
and Khandalvala appears to me to strengthen the case against her; for
it IMds us to the conclusion that she must have made a I!pecific pre-
arrangement for a conversation, the whole point of which was that its
suqject should have arisen extempore.
I proceed to extracts (2) (3) and (4).
The Coulombs assert that a certain saucer was, according to
agreement between Madame Blavatsky and Madame Coulomb, to be
" accidentally" broken and the pieces placed in the Shrine, arrangements
being made.for the substitution, through the secret back of the Shrine,
of another similar saucer, unbroken, in lieu of the broken pieces. (2)
(3) and (4) they say, referred to this; letter (3) enclosed a slip pro-
yided for the occasion, and (4) suggests that the phenomenon should
occur for the edification of General Morgan.
Now, it is not disputed that the so-called "saucer phenomenon"
did occur in the presence of General Morgan. The only question is
whether it was pre-a.rra.nged, and if so, how it was performed. Here is
General Morgan's own account of it, published in the Supplement to tho
Theosophist for December, 1883.
In the month of August, having occasion to come to Madras in the
absence of Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky, I visited the head-
quarters ofthe TheoBOphical Society to see a wonderfulpainting of theltfahat-
Ina Koot Hoomi kept there in a Shrine and daily a.ttended to by the Chelaa.
On arrival at the hOUie I W88 told that the lady, Madame Coulomb, who had
charge of the keys of the Shrine, W88 absent, so I awaited her return. She
came home in about an hour, and we proceeded up stairs to open the Shrine
and impect the picture. Madame Coulomb advanced quickly to unlock the
double doors of the hanging cupboard, and hurriedly threw them open. In 80
doing she had failed to observe that a china tray inside was on the edge of
the Shrine and leaning againlli one of the doors, and when they were opened,
down fell the china tray, sm88tted to pieces on the hard 'chunam floor. Whilst
Madame Coulomb W88 wringing her hands and lamenting this unfortunate
accident to a val'uable article of Madame Blavatsky's, and her husband was
on his knees collecting the tUbri&, I remarked it would be neceuary to obtain
some china cement and thus try to restore the fragments. Thereupon
M. Coulomb W88 despatched for the same. The broken pieceswere carefully
collected and placed, tied in a cloth,within the Shrine, and the doors locked.
Mr. DamodarK. Mavalankar, the Joint Recording Secretary of the Society,
was opposite the Shrine, seated on a chair, about 10 feet away from it,
when, after BOme conversation, anidea occurred to me to which !immediately
gave expression. I remarked that if the Brothers comidered it of sufficient
importance, they would ea.aily restore the broken article ; if not, they would
leave it to the culprits to do so, t.he best way they could. Five minutes had
scarcclyelapsed after this remark when l\{r. Damodar, who during this timo
Beemed wrapped in a roverie-exclaimed, "I think there is an answer." The
doors were opened, and sure enough, 0. small note W88 found 011 the shelf
Digitized by Google
On Pllenomena connected fEitl. Theo8ophy. 219
of the Shrin~n opening which we read' "To the small audience present.
Madame Coulomb has occasion to assure herself that the devil is neither so
black nor so wicked as he is generally represented; the mischief is easily
repaired."
On opening the cloth the china tray was found to be whole and perfect ;
not a trace of the breakage to be found on it! I at once wrote acroBB tho
note, stating that I was present when the tray was broken and immediately
restored, dated and signed it, so there should be no mistake in the matter.
It may be here observed that Madame Coulomb believes that the many things
of a wonderful nature that occur at the headquarters, may be the work of the
devil-hence the playful remark of the Mahatma who came to her rescue.*
It will be seen that there is nothing in this account inconsistent
with "Madame Coulomb's assertion. Moreover, it is a very suspicious
circumstance that the china tray should have been "leaning against
one of the doors." This is not the position naturally assumed by a.
saucer put into a cupboard in the ordinary way through the doors.
The whole" saucer" found in the Shrine was shown to me at Adyar
at my request. I examined it carefully, and I also examined carefully
the broken pieces of the saucer which Madame Coulomb exhibited as
those for which the whole saucer had been substituted. The two
"saucers .. manifestly formed a pai~ The incident happened in August,
1883. Madame Coulomb alleged tluit she purchased the pair of so-called
" saucers .. at a shopt in Madras for 2 rupees 8 annaa each. On inquiry
I found that" two porcelain pin trays" (words which properly describe
the so-called "saucers ") were purchased at this shop by cash sale on
July 3rd, 1883, and that Madame Coulomb had made purchases at
the shop on that date. If taken as referring to this purchase there was
one Blight inaccura.cy in Madame Coulomb's account; inasmuch as she
said the "trays" cost 2 rupees 8 annnas each, instead of 2 rupees 8
annaa the pair.
An incident somewhat similar to the foregoing is related in
Appendix III. .
It will be seen that in order to explain the "saucer phenomenon"
by ordinary human agency, we require to suppose that there was a.
secret opening at the back of the Shrine. It was important, therefore,
to ascertain what ground there was for this supposition, apart from
the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters, in which its existence is clearly implied_
I now proceed to give the result of my investigations in this direction_
THE SHRINE (se~ Plan, following p. 380).
On my a.rrival at the headquarters of the Theosophical Society, on
December 18th, 188.4, I was info~ed by Mr. Damodar that he could
• A later and longer account, intended by General Morgan to prove that
there could have been no deception, will be found in Appendix II.
t M. Faciole and Co., Popham's Broadway.
Q 2
Digitized by Google
220 Mr. Hodg8on'8 Rep01·t
not allow me to inspect the so-called Occult Room or the Shrine until the
return of Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky. Colonel Olcott had left
the headquarters some days previously in order to meet Madame
Blavatsky at Ceylo11 on her retunl from Europe. Two days later
Madame Blavatsky had reached Adyar, and I again requested
permission to examine the Shrine. Madame Blavatsky professed
ignorance on the subject, saying she had been unable to discover what
had been done with the Shrine. Mr. Damodar and Dr. Hartmann both
denied having any knowledge of it, and it was only after repeated
and urgent requests to be told what had happened that I learnt
from the halting account given by Mr. Damodar and Dr. Hartmann that
the Shrine bad been moved from the Occult Room (see Plan) into
Mr. Damodar's room at about mid-day of September 20th, that on the
following morning, at 9 o'clock, they found the Shrine had been taken
away, and they had not seen it since. They threw out suggestions
implying that the Coulombs or the missionaries might have stolen it.
}Ioreover, the Occult Room, when I first received permission to
inspect it, had been considerably altered; its walls were covered with
fresh plaster, and I was informed by Mr. Damodar that all traces of
the alleged " machinations" of the Coulombs in connection with the
Shrine had heen obliterated. This was not true, for the bricked frante and
the aperture iuto the recess still existed (see p. 228). However, under
the circumstances it was impossible for me to test the accuracy of
much of the description given by Theosophists of the Occult Room and
the Shrine at the time of the "exposure" by the Coulombs. But by
analysing and comparing the evidence given by various witnesses, I
was able to put together the following history of the Shrine and its
surroundings.*
On December 19th, 1882, Adyar became the headquarters of the
Theosophical Society. One large upper room of the main bungalow was
used by l\Iadame Blavatsky (see Plan). The Occult Roomwas built later.
against the west side of Madame Blavatsky's room. The north window
on this side was removed, and a layer of bricks and plaster covered the
aperture on the side of the Occult Room-a recess about 15in. deep
being left on the east side. The south window was transformed into 3
doorway leading from Mach.me BlaTatsky's room into the Occult Room_
Madame Blavatsky's large room was divided into two by curtains and a
screen; that adjoining the Occult Room being used by Madame
Blavatskyas her bedroom, and at the end of 1883 as her dining-room
also. The accompanying rough sketch made from measurements of my
(IWU shows the positions, the Occult Room being about 2ft. lower
tha.n Madame Blavatsky's room. The general entrance to the Occult
to For the evidence on which this account is based, see Appendix n-.
Digitized by Google
OJ, Phenomena connected feif/, Thc080pllll. 221
Room was through Madame Blavatsky's sitting-room. The Shrine, as
I gather from comparing the accounts of different Theosophists, was a
wooden cupboard between 3ft. and 4ft. in width and height,
and 1ft. or 15in. in depth, with a drawer below the cupboard
portion, and with comer brackets. The Shrine was made with
three sliding panels at the back.* It was placed against that
portion of the wall in the Occult Room where the north window of
Madame Blavatsky's room had previously existed (see Plan), covering
most of that portion, a most unfortunate position to choose for it if
there was no fraudulent intention. It rested below on a plank or shelf,
but its chief support consisted of two thick iron wires which
were attached to two hooks near the ceiling. A certain space round
the Shrine was enclosed by muslin curtains, which were drawn
aside from the front when anyone wished to approach the Shrine.
These curtains were about 7ft. high on the sides, but on the wall
bP.hind the Shrine extended nearly to the ceiling. The wall immediately
behind the Shriue was covered by white glazed calico, tacked to the
wall. Two widths Clf the calico met in a vertical line passing behind
the centre of the Shrine. The remaining part of the walls of the
Occult Room was covered with red-a.nd-white striped calico tacked to
the wall. The upper part of the Shrine was as close to the wall itself
as the muslin and calico behind it would allow. The lower part of the
Shrine was near to the wall, at a distance from it differently
estimated by different witnesses, but which must have been some-
where between lin. and liin., and was probably very little, if at
all, more than iill. The Shrine aud its appurtenances were fixed
in February or March, 1883. Shortly afterwards a four-panelled
wooden boarding was placed in Madame Blavatsky's room, at the back
of the recess. For some time an a1mirah (cupboard) stood in front
of this recess. The exact dates of the placing of the boarding and
almirah and of the removal of the almirah I have not been able to
ascertain. The almirah, and afterwards the recess, were used by
Madame Blavatsky as a closet for hanging clothes. The above is put
together from the statements of Theosophic witnesses.
M. Coulomb states that he removed the Shrine just aftel· it
was originally placed against the wall, sawed the middle pallel in two,
and attached a piece Qf leather behind to serve as a handle, so that the
top portion could be easily pulled up. The junction between the two
• This was admitted to me by ?rIa.da.me Blantsky herself, who alleged that
the Shrine was 80 made in order that it might be more easily taken to pieces
and packed in case of removal. But the rest of the Shrine appears to have
been of solid construction, and it is difficult to see what great convenience
for travelling purposes there could have been in merely taking out portions of
the back.
Digitized by Google
222 Mr. Hoduao,.'a Report
halves of the panel was, he says, hidden from those looking at the
inside of the Shrine, hy a mirror which just covered it. Behind this
sliding panel a hole was made in the wall. A sliding panel was also
made in the wardrobe which stood in front of the recess in Madame Bla-
vatsky's bedroom, and one of the panels of the teak-wood boarding was
also made to slide about 10 inches, so that easy communication existed
between Madame Blavatsky's bedroom and the Shrine. The panels in
the wardrobe and in the teak-wood door were shown by M. Coulomb to
the Board of Oontrol when he gave up the keys of Madame Blavatsky's
rooms in May, 1884. The hole in the wall, he said, had been blocked
up in January, before Madame Blavatsky departed for Europe. He
states also that the two portions of the middltl panel of the Shrine were
replaced by a new single panel, and that these changes were made at the
request of Madame Blavatsky, who was afraid that some examination
might be made of the Shrine during her absence in Europe. 1\1.
Coulomb's statement as to the half panel cannot of course be verified,
and must be taken for what it is worth. What evidence there is in
support of his other statements will be seen from the remainder of my
narrative, derived from other sources.
At the end of October or beginning of November, 1883, Madame
Blavatsky, in consequence of a doubt expressed by Mr. G.--* con-
cerning the panelled boarding connected with the Shrine, ordert'd
it to be removed, t and the front part of the recess, that towards
Madame Blavatsky's bedroom, to be blocked up. The panelled boarding
was placed on the outside of the north-east opening into Madame
Blavatsky's drawing-room, and formed the back of a shelf, and there it
was certainly found to have a sliding panel in it when examined by the
Theosophists in May, 1884. t A wooden frame of about 8ft. by 4ft.
was made, with cross-pieces, so as to fit the front of the recess.
A single layer of half-size bricks was placed in this frame, a.nd
the front then covered with plaster, so that it was lIush with the
adjoining wall. The hollow left in the wall between Madame Blavatsky's
room and the Occult Room, was about 1ft. deep. The whole wall was
then papered over, the work being completed about the middle of
December, 1883, or Pflrhaps several days later. Directly afterwards a
sidebo!lrd, about 3ft. high and 34m. wide, was placed close against the
bricked frame forming part of t·he papered wall. It covered the lowest
north partition of the frame, and it was found on the expulsion of tlle
Coulombs in May, 1884,that the bricks from this partition had been taken
out, so that there was communication through the sideboard (in the back
• See Appendix Y.
t See Mrs. Morgan's eddence in Appendix IY.
t For a case where this panel seems to have been used in the new position.
see Appendix VI.
Digitized by Google
Ola Pkenomena connected witl. Theosoph!l. 223
of which was a. hinged panel) with the hollow space. M. Coulomb
states that he removed the bricks as .soon as the sideboard was in
position in December, 1883. However this may be, the sideboard
remained there during the time of the anniversary celebration in 1883 ;
and Shrin~phenomena, which were in abeyance during these alterations,
began again immediately after their completion. They ceased altogether,
with two exceptions to be afterwards dealt with (see p. 248), about or
shortly before the middle of January, 1884. On May 17th or 18th, M.
Coulombgave up the keys, and the various contrivances for trickery were
investigated. The sliding panel in the almirah, the sliding panel in
the boarding, the hinged panel at the back of the sideboard, the opening
behind it where the bricks had been removed, and the hollow space of
the recess were all inspected. Mr. St. George La.n~Fox then examined
the west side of the party-wall behind the Shrine, but was unable at
that time to find any traces of the hole which, according to M. Cou-
lomb, had previously existed between the hollow space and tho Shrine.
He also examined the sideboard, and found that he could discover no
signsfrom without of the aperture which led into the hollow space, show-
ing that this aperture would remain undetected unless examination of the
sideboard were made from within. The Theosophists contended that the
structures for trickery revealed by the Coulombs, who had had exclusive
charge of Madame Blavatsky's rooms during her absence, had been made
after she had left; that they had never been and could not be used in the
productionofphenomena;- that the hollowspace and the apertore leading
to it were too small to be utilised in any connection with the Shrine, and
moreover that M. Coulomb's work was interrupted before he had time to
make a hole through the wall between the hollow space and the Shrine
itself.
To establish these points, the Theosophical Board of Control sent
round a circular inquiry in August, 1884, to various Theosophists who
had been at headquarters, requesting them to state what they knew of
the condition of the Shrine, adjoining walls, &c.,'prior to and after the
expUlsion of the Coulombs. I was allowed by Dr. Hartmann to read
the packet of replies to this inquiry. I also questioned in detail all the
important witnesses who professed to have mooe an examination of the
Shrine and its surroundings ;-the result being that if we except
Madame Blavatsky and the Coulombs, Madame Blavatsky's native
servant Babula, and Colonel Olcott (whose statement on tllis point I
distrust for reasons given ~ Appendix IV. where it is quoted), there
• One ground given for this opinion "'as that the sliding panels worke(l
stiftly, as if new and unused. Disuse for a few months, or a little pit, would, I
hink, account for this fact. See comments on the evidence of Mr. J. D. B.
Gribble, Appendix IV.
Digitized by Google
224 M,'. IIodg8on'8 Report
is no evidcnce to show that any person ever removed the Shrine from
the wall or saw it removed from the wall after it was first placed there,
until the expUlsion of the Coulombs; that, therefore, no careful examina-
tion could ever have been made of the Lack of the Shrine or of the wall
in immediate juxtaposition. Further, that no such exawination was
ever made of the east side of the party-wall as would have sufficed to
discover the sliding panels and apertures. I must add that the
testimony offered appeared to me to be characterised by much mal-
obserYation, sometimes implying a ludicrous lack of ordinary intelligence,
and much equivocation sometimes amounting to absolute dishonesty.
Several of the original statements of the witnesses are given in Appendix
IV., together with modifications of their testimony produced by my
questioning, and further comments of my own.
The ultimate fa.te of the Shrine,according to a statement made by Dr.
Hartmann to Mr. and Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, Mr. Hume, and myself, was
as follows. After the expulsion of the Coulombs, Mr. Judge, anAmerican
Theosophist, then residing at the headquarters of the Society, was desirous
of examining the Shrine. Mr. Damodar, who possessed the keys of the
Occult Room, avoided this examination several times on one pretext or
another; but, eventually, a party of Theosophists proceeded to the inspec-
tion of the Shrine. The Shrine was removed from the wall and its doors
were opened. Mr. T. Vigiaraghava Charloo, (commonly called Ananda)
a Theosophist residing in an official position at the headquarters, struck
the back of the Shrine with his hand, exclaiming, "You see, the back
is quite solid," when, to the surprise of most of those who were prp.sent,
the middle panel of the Shrine flew up. It seemed undesirable to some
of the witnesses of this phenomenon that the discovery should be made
public, and they resolved accordingly to destroy the Shrine. To do
this they considered that the Shrine must be surreptitiously removed, but
such removal was inconvenient from the Occult Room. The Shrine was
therefore first removed openly to Mr. Damodar's room, and, on the
following night, was thence remo,-ed secretly by three Theosophists,
conce~led in the compound, afterwards broken up, and the frag-
ments burned piecemeal during the follo'wing week. Dr. Hartmann
had only retained two portions of the back of the Shrine,
which he had enveloped in brown paper and kept carefully con-
cealed in his room,-substantial pieces of cedar wood, black-
lacked. It was of such wood, according to a previous statement of
lI. Coulomb, that the back of the Shrine was made.
Dr. Hartmann has since furnished me with a statement in writing
which is of interest as affording evidence respecting the hole between
the recess and thc Shrine. That this hole had manifestly
existed and had been blocked up, I had been assured by
another Theosophist who is particularly observant, and who discovered
Digitized by Goo
O/~ Pnetlomena connected ,citn Thto8opliy. 225
its traces independently of Dr. Hartmann. The following is an extract
from Dr. Hartmann's written account:-
At what time the hole in the wall was made is as much a mystery to me
as it is to you; but from a consideration of all the circumstances as laid down
in my pamphlet, I came to the conclusion, and am atill of the opinwll, that
they were made by M. Coulomb after H. P. Blavatsky went to Europe,
and I am now inclined to believe that M. Coulomb made them to ingratiate
himself with Madame Blavatsky to facilitate her supposed tricks. All the
traps are too clumsy, and it would tax the utmost credulity to believe
that such phenomena as I know of could have been made by their mean&
In fact I do not know of a single phenomena [sic] tiKIt happened ill my
presence where they would have been of the slightest use.
Of the existence of a movable back to the Shrine and a filled-up
aperture in the wall, none of us knew anything, and although superficial
examinations were made, they divulged nothing; because to make a
thorough examination, it would have been neceBBBry to take the Shrine
down, and we were prevented from doing this by the superstitious awo with
which Mr. Damodar K. Mavalankar regarded the Shrine, and who looked
upon every European who dared to touch or handle the .. sacred" Shrine as
a desecration.
At about the time when Major-General Morgan sent his in\'itation to
Mr. Patterson to come to headquarters, that examination was made, and it;
was found that the back of the Shrine could be removed, and on 1110isten-
ing the wall behind the Shrine with a wet cloth, it was found that an aperture
had existed, which had been plastered up.
Why these discoveries should have thrown any discredit 011 Madame
Blavatsky I cannot see, because they as well as the other traps were the
work of M. Coulomb, and there was no indication whatever that H. P.
Blavatsky knew anything of their existence, and moreover the testimonials
of such as claimed to have examined the Shrine went to show that they were
of recent origin.
Neverthelesa, I must cOllfesa that it seemed to me that if at that in·
opportune moment this lIew discotle1·V, to which I then alluded in the papers
(see MadrlU MaU), would have been made public, it would 11ave had a bad
effect on the public mind. If I had been here as a delegate of the Society
for Psychical Research, or as a detective of the misaionaries, I would,
perhaps, not have hesitated to state the exact nature of the neue discovery j
but in my position I had to look out for the interests of Madame Blavatsky,
and I did not, therefore, consider it prudent to speak of this discovery;
neither was I authorised to do so, neither did I (as I then stated) feel justified
in letting the enemics of H. P. Blavatsky invade her private 1'00111S With-
out her consent.
A gentleman who was present, and who shared my opinions, was of the
opinion that the Skritu: had been too much desecrated to be of any more use,
and he burned the Shrine in my presence. . • . I never told Colonel
Olcott nor Madame Blavatsky, nor any une else at headquarters up to that
time, what had become of the Shrine. But when you and MI'. Hume,
besides a lot of other absurd theories, also asserted your conviction, that
Madame Blavatsky had sent her servant, Baboola, for the purpose of doing
Digitized by Google
226 MI". Hodgson's R6port
away with tbe Shrine, and that he had done 80 by her ordera, 1 thought it
about time to show you that even a member of the Society for Psychical
Research may err in his judgment.
We learn from Dr. Hartmann that any thorough examination of
the Shrine was prevented by the" superstitious awe" with which Mr.
Damodar regarded it. Dr. Hartmann's assertion is corroborated by
the testimony of Mr. Lane-Fox, who has &lso very emphatically
expressed to me his conviction that no examination of the Shrine by
native witnesses can be considered as of the smallest v&lue, in
consequence of the exceeding reverence in which it was universally
held. But it will be observed that .in one part of his account Dr.
Hartmann appears to lay some stress on "the testimonials of such
as claimed to have examined the Shrine." Dr. Hartmann himself,
indeed, was one of those" who claimed to have examined the Shrine"
before the exposure; he gave me, on different occasions, accounts
of his examinations, and these accounts, besides being inconsistent
with one another, are inconsistent with his final statements,--as he
at once cheerfully admitted, retracting all his previous utterances
oo~~~ .
It seems clear from a.ll I have said (1) that the position
selected for the Shrine was peculiarly convenient for obtaining secret
access to it from the back; and that none of the changes from time to
time made in Madame Blavatsky's bedroom behind the Shrine, though
made with the ostensible object of removing all suspicion of trickery,
tended to diminish this convenience; (2) that there undoubtedly wertl all
the necessary apertures for access to the Shrine from the back, at some
period before the Coulombs left; (3) that there is no trustworthy evi-
dence whatever to show that this access did not exist during the whole
time from the moment the Shrine was put up till Madame Blavatsky
left for Europe, in February, 1884, except during the alterations con-
nected with putting up the bricked frame, when Mrs. Morgan saw the
whole wall papered over; and there is no evidence of the occurrence of
any Shrine phenomena during those alterations.
These results-altogether apa.rt from the Blavatsky-Coulomb
correspondence-would prevent the whole mass of testimony to Shrine-
marvels from having any scientific value; taken along with this
correspondence, they can, I think, leave no doubt in the mind of any
impartial reader, as to the mode of production of these marvels.
MR. DAMoDAR's EVIDENCE.
I now come to the question as to what weight can be attached to
the statements of Mr. Damodar K. Mavalankar. This is a fundamen-
tally important question, not only because he is one of the few persons
Digitized by Google
Oil PileI/omena contlected 1&,111 Theosopli!l. 227
besides Madame Blavatsky who testify to having seen the Mahatmas in
Thibet, and in a way which precludes the possibility of his having been
deceived, but also because M:r. Damodar himself is said to have the
power of travelling in the" astral form," and the reality of these
astral journeys of his depends mainly on his own statements. My own
conclusion, as I have said, is decidedly unfavourable to the trust-
worthiness of Mr. Damodar. It is not in my pOwer to reproduce here
the whole of my grounds for forming this conclusion, but I think that a
mere analysis of his statements regarding the Shrine will go far to
justify it.
Babula, the native ilervant of Madame Blavatsky, had reached
Adyar on his return from Europe at 9 p.m., on September 20th, as I
found from a written entry in the Visitors' Book. My original con-
jecture as to the disappearance of the Shrine was that Babula hacl
concealed or destroyed it in compliance with instructions from
Madame Blavatsky, as it was on the night of September 20th that the
removal of the Shrine had been effected. This appears also to have
been the opinion of Mr. Subba Row, pleader in the High Court of
lIadras, at that time and still a leading Theosophist, who vainly
questioned and threatened Babula in the hope of inducing a confession.
I am disposed to think that this was also the opinion of Mr. Damodar.
and that it was in order to prevent me from drawing the same conclusion,
that in reply to my inquiries at an early stage of the investigation,
he endeavoured to conceal the fact that Babula had arrived on the
evening of September 20th; saying that he had arrived on the
morning of September 21st, and had immediately requested that he
might inspect the rooms, when, to the surprise of all (not, apparently,
excluding the three Theosophists who, according to Dr. Hartmann,·
had been concerned in its removal), the Shrine could not be found.
Mr. Damodar also asserted that marks were discerned on the partition
of the room where the Shrine had been placed, as though the Shrine
had been lifted over the side, and that statements to this effect were
in the deposition made at the time by those Theosophists who discovered
that the Shrine had disappeared. Inquiring of another Theosophist
who had been present, I was assured by him that no such marks were
observed, and that in fact none had been looked for. The deposition,
of which I have 0.. copy, contains not the slightest allusion to any such
marks.
* Dr. Hartmann stated that }lr. Damodar was not one of these three.
That they should not take him into confidence in the matter is natural, as they
probably sincerely believed in the" superstitious awe" with which he regarded
the Shrine, and thought th"t it would lead him to disapprove of their pro-
ceedings.
Digitized by Google
228 MI'. Hodg8on'8 Report
( Turning now to the specific statements of Mr. Damodar, quoted in
Appendix IV., we find that he makes the following assertions :-
1. That the sideboard aperture leading to the recess, and the recess
itself, were so small that he could enter the hole with diffi-
culty, and when once insidt.>, "could only stand abreast,
without being able to move either wayan inch, or to lift up "
his hand.
2. That there was no sliding-panel to the frame of the Shrine.
3. That he was present on several occasions when various witnesses
to the phenomp.na "had scrutinised carefully, in every
possible way, the Shrine, and had satisfied themselves that it
was intact, and had no panels or anything of the kind."
4. That he well remembers Mr. Subba Rowand himself" very
carefully examining the Sllrineand the Wall," and that they
were" both satisfied that they were intact."
5. That the keys of the Shrine and the Occult Room were in his
charge while Madame Blavatsky was at Ootacamund, in.
1883: and again
6. That the keys of Madame Blavatsky's rooms and of the Shrine
were in the charge of Madame Coulomb, while Madl£Dle
Blavatsky was at Oota.camund in 1883.
7. That the sideboard did not come into existence till January,
1884, wfen the phenomena were no longer produced in the
Shrine. )
(1) Now, with respect to the sideboard aperture and the recess,
these were, as I afterwards found, still in existence when I arrived_
at Adyar, though Mr. Damodar stated to me that the recess had
been blocked up. This last statement of Mr. Damodar's I can
regard only as 0. deliberate misrepresentation. Had I known that
the recess still existed, I should of course myself have endeavoured
to enter, and should at once have discovered the untruth of
J-Ir. Damodar's account of his own entrance. I was afterwards
informed by another Theosophist that' he regarded the aperture
and the recess as quite large enough to be used by 0. person of
ordinary size for the production of the Shrine phenomena., and
in the meantime I had tested the accuracy, or rather, inaccuracy
Qf Mr. Damodar's account, by constructing for myself an aperture
;md a recess smaller than those connected with the Shrine.
Dr. Hartmann, in his pamphlet, gave the dimensions of the
nperture as 27in. high by I4in. wide, and these dimensions are as
nearly as possible correct. This I was subsequently able to ascertain
for myself, as the frame had been stowed away in the compound,
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena connected ffith Theosoph!l. 229
and was shown to me by another Theosophist. The recess was
alleged by Dr. Hartmann to be about 12in. deep, and about
oft. high; the dE!pth given is about correct, but the height
was more nearly 8ft.-as I found by measurement. I have myself
entered II. space through a hole the dimensions of both of
which were at least an inch- less than the dimensions given by Dr.
Hartmann. The hole I made for the purpose measured less than
13in. by 26in., and the space into which it led, and in which I stood
upright, was less than lliu. in depth. In this space I could with ease
lift my hand, manipulate objects, and utilise the position generally in
the way demanded for the production of the Shrine phenomena. l\Ir.
Damodar draws attention in his account to his own thinness and leanness~
and certainly my own organism is considerably larger than Mr.
Damodar's, and I believe also than M. Coulomb's or Babula's.
(2) Mr. Damodar's next assertion, that there was no sliding pane)
to the frame of the Shrine, we have already seen to be untrue. Had
this statement -stood alone, however, it could not ha\-e been regarded
as implicating Mr. Damodar in any falsehood, but would merely have-
appeared to be a hasty inference from his experience, as the assertion
was made before the discovery of the sliding panel by Ananda, as
described above.
(3) The careful scrutiny of the Shrine "in every possible way,"
which he asserts was made in his presence, was never made. In n()
single instance was the Shrine moved in the least degree from the wall
by any of these various witnesses to whom he refers. Not only so, but
Mr. Damodar afterwards admitted that he never examined the back of
the Shrine himself, and was never present when any such examination
was made. This appeared in connection with his statement that Mr.
Subba Rowand himself "very carefully" examined the Shrine and
the wall.
(4) I took an opportunity in Mr. Damodar's presence of questioning
Mr. Subba Row concerning this alleged examination. Mr. Subba. Row
denied that he had ever made any examination of the Shrine. Mr.
Damodar then made a similar denial, and both again united in
affirming that they had never seen the Shrine removed. Yet this
imaginary examination by Mr Subba Rowand himself, Mr. Damodar
declal'ed in a. previous written statement that he well remembered.
(5) and (6) The next marked contradiction in Mr. Damodar's state-<
ments, is that when Madame Blavatsky was at Oota.ca.mund in 1883.
the keys of the Shrine and the Occult Room were in his charge.
and yet were in the charge of Madame Coulomb. This contra-
diction is not easily resolved, but an explanation of it can be-
suggested. The first statement was made on August 19th, 1884-,
when Mr. Damodar probably deemed it to be of capital import-
Digitized by Google
230 Mr. Hodgson's Report
ance that he should prove that there was no panel in the Shrine
before the middle of September, 1883. The second statement was
made on September 19th, 1884, and on September 10th the Madras
Chriseian College Magazine had appeared, in which various Blavatsky-
Coulomb letters were published. An attempt was then made on the
side of the Theosophists to show from circumstantial evidence that
these letters must be forgeries. Of these letters, two very import.a.nt
ones referred respectively to the Adyar Saucer and to a Shrine letter
received by Mr. P. Sreenevas Rao. In General Morgan's previously
published account of the former, he had stated that Madame
Coulomb had charge of the keys of the Shrine, and the strength
of Mr. P. Sreenevas Rao's case for the genuineness of his phenomenon
rested upon his statement that he had a9ked Madame Coulomb to
be allowed to see the Shrine, had managed to do so on the following
evening, and that Madame Coulomb could not in 'the interval have
written to Madame Blavatsky, and received a Mahatma letter in time
for his visit, which had occurred while Madame Blavatsky was at
Ootacamund; and it was impossible to give any consistent account of
these incidents without its clearly appearing that Madame Coulomb had
(lharge of the keys during Madame Bla.vatsky's absence, as was no
doubt actually the case. It is difficult to suppose that the first of lIr.
Damodar's conflicting written statements was not a wilful and deliberate
falsehood.
(7) Mr. Damodarstates that the sideboarddid not come into existence
till January, 1884, when the phenomena were no longer produced in the
Shrine. Dr. Hartmann in his pamphlet of September, 1884, wrote
that on the suggestion of M. Coulomb "a heavy cupboard WIIS con-
structed according to his [M. Coulomb's] plan, and under his super-
vision, in the month of December, 1883, and the said cupboard was
placed against the said wall on the said side opposite to that on which
hung the 'Shrine';" and in reply to my inquiry he stated that this cup-
board [the sideboard] in which M. Coulomb showed the movable back,
was "t,"8.inst the east side of the wall behind the Shrine during the
anniversary [December 27th]. Its presence at that time is also
(lertified to by Mrs. Morgan, Mr. Subba Row, Judge P. Sreenevas Rao,
and various other witnesses. (See Appendix IV.) Mr. Damodar
therefore is in disagreement with very important Theosophical witnesses,
and his own statement looks as if it was made because he realised
the cardinal necessity of establishing the falsehood tha.t the sideboard
was not in its position during the anniversary celebration of December,
1883 (when Shrine-phenomena occurred), if the allegations made by the
Coulombs were to be disproved. I had reason to think that he
forced the evidence of several minor witnesses on this point. I
found that in more than one instance he had instructed the witness
Digitized by Google
0" Pll8nomena connected with Tke080p"/I. 231
beforeha.nd as to what replies should be given to my questions. I
naturally endeavoured to preclude this preliminary arrangement, and on
one occasion, having unexpectedly paid a visit to Mr. RathJlD.velu, a.
witness whose written statement had come into my possession, I was
greeted by the significant remark, "Damodar didn't tell me you were
coming." This gentleman admitted, though with manifest reluctance,
that the sideboard was in its position at the time of tho anniversary in
1883. The witnesses who state the contl-ary are all of them, I think,
persons whom there are independent reasons for regarding as un-
reliable. .
These contradictions and false assertions as regards the Shrine,
constitute by themselves, I think, a sufficient ground for regarding Mr.
Damodar as for our purposes an untrustworthy witness.
r-MR. DAllODAR'S "AsTRAL" JOURNEYS.
I shall now proceed to show that there is nothing in the circum-
stances connected with Mr. Damodar's "astral" journeys which renders
it difficult to suppose a pre-arrangement between him and Madame
Blavatsky to make it appear that he took them; and even that some
of the circumstances suggest a suspicion of such an arrangement. Colonel
Olcott is of opinion that such a pre-arrangement was not possible, but
I do not think that any ODe who reads his evidence will agree with him,
especially if they take his statements in connec~ion with some addi-
tional information which I have since acquired. The following is the
evidence given by Colonel Olcott before the Committee as to one of
these Ie astral" journeys :-
At Moradabad, N.W.P., India, being on an official tour from Bombay to
Cashmere and back, I was very strongly importuned by a gentleman named
Shankar Singh, a Government official, and not then 1\ Theosophist, to under-
take the cure of two lads, aged 12and 14 years respectively, who had each on
arriving at the age of 10 years become paralysed. It is known, I believe.
to many here that I have the poller of healing the sick by the voluntary
transferonce of vitality. I refused in this instance, having already within
the previous year done too much of it for my health. The gentleman
urged me again. I again refused. He spent, perhaps, 10 or 15 minutes
in trying to persuade me and endeavouring to shake my resolution; but, as
I still refused, he went to Mr. Damodar, who was travelling Witll me in his
official capacity. Shankar Singh represented the case, and appealed to Mr.
Damodar's sympathies, and at last persuaded him to go in the double, or
phantasm, to the headquarters of our Socie~ at Madras, and try to enlist
the goodwill of Madame Blavataky.
MR. STACK: What is the distance of Moradabad from Madras 7
COLONEL Ot.corr: The distance, approxinlately, by telegraph line is, I
should say, 2,200 miles.
MR. MYER.~ : Was it known at headquarters that you were at l\Ioradabsd
on that day 1
Digitized by Google
232 M,·. Hodgson's Report
COLONEL OLOOT1': It was not known that I Wall at Moradabad, for, owing
to the rapid spread of our movement in India, I, while on a tour, was con-
stantly obliged to interrupt the previously settled programme, and go hither
and thither to found new branches. All the elements are against any
procurement. To understand the present case, you must know that it is the
rule in those Eastern schools of myatical research that the pupils are not
permitted to seek intercourse with Teachers other than their own. Hence,
lfr. Damodar, who is the pupil-the Sanskrit word ia chela-of the Mahatma
Koot Hoomi, could not himself approach my own Teacher, who is another
person. (Colonel Olcott here exhibited the portrait of his own Teacher, but
preferred to withhold the name from publicity, though he mentioned it to
the Committee.) Madame Blavatskyand I are pupils of the same Master,
and hence she Wall at liberty to communicate with him on this subject. Mr.
Damodar, preparatory to taking hiB aerial flight, then sent Mr. Shankar
Singh out of the room and closed the door. A few minutes later he returned
to his visitor, who was waiting just outside in the verandah. They came in
together to the part of the house where I was sitting with a number of Hindu
gentlemen and one European, and told me what hRd happened in consequence
of my refusa.l to heal the boys. Mr. Damodar R&.id that he had been in the
double to headquarters (Madras), and had talked with Madame Blavatsky,
who had refused to interfere. But while they were conversing together,
both heard a voice, which they recognised as that of my Teacher.
MR. SUCK: Not of Mahatma Koot Hoomi 1
CoLONEL OLCOTT: No, that of my own Teacher. Mahatma. Koot Hoomi
ll&d nothing to do with me in this affair. While they were talking they heard
this voice, which gave a message, and Mr. Damodar remarked that, if I
would take pencil and paper, he would dictate from memory the message. I
did so.
MR. MYERS: You have the p8.1>er 1
COLO~'"BL OLOOT1': Yes. Shankar Singh then, in the preaence of all,
88.t down and wrote a brief statement of the circumstances, and it was en-
dorsed by 12 persons, including myself.·
*
The memQrandum states that Mr. Damodar added, after repeating the
message which he had received from headquarters, that he had aIIked Madame
Blavatsky to confirm the thing to me by sending a telegram repeating the
message or iti subatance, either to himself or to Shankar Singh. The next
moming the expected telegram arrived.
* * *
MR. MYERS: You do not know whether Damodar Wall seen by Madame
Blavatsky 1
COLONEL OLCOTT: She told me that she had seen hinl. At the head-
quarters resides M. Alexis Coulomb, Librarian of the Society. He was at;
the time of Damodar's alleged visit engaged at some work in the room
adjoining the writing bureau, where Madame Blavatsky was. Suddenly he
came into the room and asked Madame Blavatsky where Mr. Damodar was
as he had heard his voice in conversation with her.
MR. MyERS: From whom did you hear this 1
Digitized by Google
0" Phenomena connected Wit/I Theosophy. 233
COLONEL OLCOTT: From M. Coulomb himaeH. He said, .. I have just
heard his voice distinctly... Madame Blavataky said, "He haa not returned...
M. Coulomb seemed surpriaeil : he thought Mr. Damodar had unexpectedly
returned, and could hardly be persuaded that he had not been in the room
talkiug to Madame Blavatakv.
The following is the message :-
Received by D. K. M. and delivered to Colonel Olcott at Moradabad at
4.50 p.m., 10th November, 1883.
.. Henry can try the parties* once, leaving strongly meameriaed. Cajapati
oil to rub in three times daily to relieve sufferers. Karma cannot be
interfered with."
The evidence of various witnesses shown to us by Colonel Olcott
establishes the delivery of the message by Mr. Damodar, and .the
receipt of the genuine corresponding telegram from Madame
Blavatsky.
In order to show the little probability there was of any conspiracy
between Mr. Shankar Singh and Mr. Damodar, Colonel Olcott
stated :-
Notice had been put into The TMosophist BOrne months before that I was
going to make such and such official tours throughout India, and that persons
who had sick friends to be treated might, within certain hours on the second
day of my viait to each station, bring them to me to be healed. Shankar
Singh had written to me long before my coming to Moradabad, asking me to
undertake the curo of these boys, and offering to bring them to Madras to
me. I refused to see anybody there, but told him that he could bring the
boys to me when I came to Moradabad, in the course of my tour; and it was
in pursuance of that authorisation that he came and importuned me so.
He saiel, .. Here ia BOmething that you are, in a way, pledged to undertake,"
and that ia what made him 80 urgent.
Now in dealing with the real sequence of events, this last statement
should be considered first. It appears that before Colonel Olcott
started on his tour it was known at headquarters that when he reached
Moradabad, Mr. Shankar Singh would expect him to fulfil his promise
and mesmerise the boys. But wha.t were the peculiar circumstances
which would compel Colonel Olcott to resist the importuning of Mr.
Shankar Singh t Before starting on the tour, Colonel Olcott had
endeayoured to heal certain sick persons at Poona "by the voluntary
transference of vitality." I was informed by a Poona Theosophist that
some 200 patients were assembled, and that Colonel Olcott had
• The use of the word .. parties It seems to me a lIu8piciou8 circumstance.
Why should thia general and rather odd word be u8ed if it were not to cover
possible but unforeseen contingencies! The word "boys It would have bem
ahorter and more natural.
R
Digitized by Google
231 MI'. H odgBon'B Repo,.t
stri¥en mesmerically with about 50 of them, the result being nil,
whereupon the Poona Theosophists drew up a protest against Colonel
Olcott's disgracing the Theosophical Society by profE'ssing to produce
"ures in the face of such conspicuous failure. Notwithstanding this,
however, Colonel Olcott might have been persuaded by Mr. Shallkal'
Hingh to the redeeming of his promise; it was, perhaps, for this reason
that a special injunction against his undertaking any cure was issued
in the form of a Mahatma document, which reached him through lJr.
Damodar.
"October 19th.-Through D. K. lI. got an order from the
Chohans not to heal any more until further orders."-(Colonel Olcott's
diary, 1883.)
In this way Colonel Olcott's refusal was ensured. It may be
observed that this important fact is not disclosed in Colonel Olcott's
deposition. Thc reason there given by him for his refusal was that he
had "already within the pre¥ious year done too much of it [healing]
for his health." That the order referred to in his diary was the cause
of his refusal,whatever the alleged cause of the order itself, is confirmed
by Mr. Brown's statement (Some E;qJerienCl.l8 in Ifldia, pp. 14, 15).
Colonel Olcott . . • had been ordered by his Gill"!! to desist fl'OIll
treating patients until further notice, and, when application was made to him
by Mr. Shankar Singh, of Morndabad, on behalf of two orphan children, he
was under the neceBBity ofrefueing the request. Damodar, however, became
intere8ted in the matter, and said that he would ask for permission tv be
granted for this special case.
But the most crucial point of the incicltmt turne(l upon Madanle
Blavatsky's ignorance or knowledge that the tra,'ellers were at
lIoradabac1, and in reply to the definite question put by Mr. Myers,
Colonel Olcott declared that it was not known at headquarters that he
was at Moradabad. Now, some time after my arrival at Adyar, I took
the opportunity, when Colonel Olcott was examining his diary, of
requesting him to furnish me with the dates on which he visited the
Tarious towns included in his tour of 1883. He replied that I could
get them from the programme of the tour antecedently published in TIl1
TlleoBopltiBt, as the programme had been carried out. To my remark
that I had understood from his deposition that the previously settled
programme was interrupted, he answered that it had been somewhat
alteredinconsequence of his founding new l.ranches not anticipated, and
he then proceeded to quote the dates from his diary. I afterwards com-
pared .these with the previously published programme, which hears the
date of October 17th. Twelve towns were mentioned in the progrnmme,
which extended over the dates from October 22nd to Nm'ember 18th,
and the dat~s corresponded in e¥ery case but one with those of Colonel
Digitized by Google
OJ, Phel/omena cOianected ,citk Tlte080plt!l. 235
Olcott's diary, the discrepancy in that case being probably apparent
only, and not real. (According to the diary Cawnpore was reached on
November 2nd, and the time given in the programme was 12.24 a.m.
on November 3rd.)
It appeared from the programme, then, that Moradahad was to Le
reached on No,-ember 9th, and left on Novemher 11th (and it appears
from Colonel Olcott's diary that it was reached 011 November 9th, and
left on November 11th), so that it was known long previously at head-
quarters that Colonel Olcott would be at Moradabad on November lOth,
when the illcident occurred, if the programme were not interrupted.
Colollel Olcott's reason for asserting that it was not kllown at head-
quarters that he was at Moradabad appears to be that, on the course
of his tours generally, he was constantly obliged to interrupt the
previously-settled programme, and that therefore, apparently, no
certain reliance could be placed on the programme for this particular
tour. This at least is the most favourable interpretation of the
evidence which he gave before our Committee. I may note,
however, that the following special proviso was attached to the
list antecedently published in Tlte Theosophist: "This programme
will be as strictly adhered to as possible. Any change, necessitated by
unforeseen contingencies, will he signified by telegram." (Thus in case
of change of programme, Mr. Damodar would have had an adequate
reason for visiting the telegraph office, and might have sent a warning
telegram to }Iadame Blavatsky without exciting any suspicion.) But
the programme, as we have seen above, was closely kept, and the:- /
cumstances throughout were admirably adapted for a pre-arrangement.
Yet Colonel Olcott, after il.sserting that it was not known at he -
quarters that he was at Moradabad, and giving a general reasoll for
supposillg that it could not be kllown, adds: "All the elements are
againSt any procurement." His promise to the waiting Shankar Singh,
thc " Chohans' " emphatic prohibition hestowed upon him by Damodar,
the programme which pointed with a steady finger to Moradabacl on
November lOth, the easy opportunity afforded to Mr. J;>amodar of
guarding against afiasco in case of any unforeseen contingency-U all
the elements are against any procurement" !
I may notice here that M. Coulomb has stated to me that he told
Colonel Olcott a falsehood at the request of Madame Blavatsky; and
I may recall the fact, which we felt bound to mention in our First
Report (p. 40, note), that when Colonel Olcott quoted to us 1\L
Coulolllb's testimony as that of a trustworthy witness, he was aware
that M. Coulomb had been charged with making trap-doors and
other apparatus fol' trick manifestations. Further, when Colonel Olcott
received the proof-sheets of his deposition, he must have been aware
th3t the Coulombs had been expelled from the Theosophical Society.
R 2
Digitized by Google
236 MI'. Hodgson's Report
Colonel Olcott also refened to M. Coulomb as a witness in the only
othel' instance of MI'. Damodar's alleged IIStral journeys which came
within the scope of my investigations in India.*
This case Colonel Olcott described as follows :-
" TIle second case is one of a similar character On the night of the 17th
of November, 1883-to wit, seven days later-I W&8 in the train on my way
from Meerut, N.W.P., to Lahore. Two persons were in the carriage with
me-Mr. Damodar, and another Hindu named Narain Swamy Naidu, who
were &8leep on their beds at either side of the sa.1oon compartment. I
myself W&8 reading a book by the light of the lamp. Damodar had been
moving upon his bed from time to time, showing that he W&8 not physically
asleep, &8 the other one W&8. Presently Damodar came to me and &8ked
what time it was. I told him that it W&8 a few minutes to 6 p.m. He said,
• I have just been to headquarters'-meaning in the double-'and all
accident has happened to Madame Blavatsky.' I inquired if it W&8 any-
thing serious. He said that he could not tell me: but she had tripped her
foot in the carpet, he thought, and fa.11en heavily upon her right knee.
I thereupon tore a piece of paper out of some book,
and on the spot made a memorandum, which W&8 signed by myself and the
second Hindu. "
The memorandum runs as follows :-
"In train at Nagul Station, S.P. and D. Railway, at 5.55 p.m., 17/11/83.
D. K. M. says he h&8 just been (inSukshma Sarirs) to headquarters. H.P.B.
h&8 just tripped in carpet and hurt right knee. Had just taken K. H. 's
portrait from Shrine. Heard her mention names of General and Mrs.
Morgan. Thinks they are there. Saw nobody but H. P. B., butftlt several
others."
"The next station reached by the train was Saharanpur, where a ha.1t of
half-an-hour for supper occurred. I went directly to the telegraph office,
and sent a despatch to Madame Blavatsky &8 near &8 I can remember in the
following words: 'What accident happened at headquarters at about 6
o'clock. 1 Answtlr to Lahore.' "
To this Madame Blavatsky telegraphed in reply :-
.. Nearly broke right leg, tumbling from bishop's chair, dragging
Coulomb, frightening Morgans. Damodar startled us."
Colonel Olcott added :-
"The presence of General and Mrs. Morgan at headquarters is confirmcll
by this telegram, and before that we travellers had no knowledge of their
llaving come down from the Nilgiris."
And to this remark Madame Blavatsky made the following note
* Some remarks on the a.11eged appearances of Mr. Damodar in London will
be found at p. 388.
Digitized by Goo
0" P1tenomena cO/meclea with Theo8opl,y. 237
when she looked over Colonel Olcott's deposition before the Committee
ill proof:-
"They had just arrived from Nilgherry Hills.-H. P. BLAVATSKY."
It seemed, then, that in this case the testimony of General and
Mrs. Morgan might afford very important evidence disproving the possi-
bility of pre-arrangement between Madame Blavatsky and Mr. Damodal'.
For it might have proved (1) that their presence at headquarters
could not be known to Mr. Damodar; and (2) that the accident to
:Madame Blavatsky was a genuine one, and occurred at the hour named.
I learnt, however, from General and Mrs. Morgan that they had been
at headquarters a week; that they had been specially summoned thither
by a Mahatma letter ; and el'en then were not direct witnesses of the
accident. Thus every obstacle to a pre-arrangement vanishes. Indeed,
the summoning of the Morgans to headquarters, taken in connection
with the way their names are dragged into Madanle Blavatsky's tele-
gram, and Madame Blavatsky's own note as to their having just arrived,
becomes a very suspicious circumstance.
On the whole, then, when I consider the probability from what we
otherwise know of Madame Blavatsky, that any marvel in which she
plays a part is spurious rather than genuine; the untruthfulness of Mr.
Damodar as displayed in his testimony about the Shrine; the absence
of any evidence for these marvellous communications except that of
Madame Blavatsky and Mr. Damooar; the circumstances favouring
pre-arrangement between the two; and the minor points that I have
noted which positively suggest such pre-arrangement; the conclusion
that these " astral" journeys were fabulous appears to me to be
irresistible. And from this conclusion it further follows that no
importance can be attached to any other accounts of apparent marvels
which can be explained by attributing them to the agency of Mr.
Damodar. The full significance of this inference will be seen later on,
,vhen I come to discuss the accounts of Mahatma letters received in
:Mndame Blavatsky's absence.
COLOYEL OWOTT'S EVIDEYCE.
I hal-e already dwelt more fully on Mr. Damodar's "astral"
journeys.than was demanded merely to show how easy was pre-
arrangement between Madame Blavatsky and !Ir. Damodar. I have
done so partly in order to show how worthless Colonel Olcott's state-
lllents and inferences are seen to lie when placed side by side with the
record of events as they actually occurred. I will give another instance
of the same unreliability.
In replying to a question put by Mr. Myers in connection with
Digitized by Google
238 MI'. Hodg8on'8 Report
Colonel Olcott's account of the alleged "astral" form of a Mahatma
whieh appeared to him in. New York, Colonel Olcott stated ;-
" I never saw a living Hindu before I arrived in London on nly way to
•India. I had had no correspondence with anybody until then, and had no
knowledge of any Ih'ing Hindu who could have visited me in America."
Now Colonel Olcott arrived in London on his way to India ill
18i9. The Theosophical Society was founded in 18i5, and long before
this Colonel Olcott had travelled with Hindus from New York to
LiverpooJ. He had made their acquaintance and obtained their portraits,
which, as he tells one of them in a letter which I have seen, were
banging on his walls in 18H. During the years 18H and 18i8 he
wrote many letters to one of them, Mr. M. T., who became a member
of the Theosophical Society, and was intimate with Colonel Olcott ill
Bombay, but died several years ago.
It seems, then, that Colonel Olcott had been in familiar relations
with a Hindu, whom he first met on the passage from America to Eng-
land, long before he reached London 011 his way to India, and even long
before the " astral figure" in questioll appeared to him in New York.
lloreover, it was M. T. who first began the Theosophical Society in
Bombay, antecedent to the removal of headquarters from America to
India. 'Vhat, then, is the explanation of Colonel Olcott's
statement to the Committee in his deposition 1 After it had
been pointed out to Colonel Olcott that this statement was
quite irreconcilable with fact, as could be easily proved from letters
of his which I had examined, he admitted that he had met M. T.
long previously, and he showed a remarkably clear recollection of tho
circumstances-at least of the circumstances which were referred to in
his letters to M. T. He accounted for his statement to the
Committee by urging that his attention at the time was
being specially directed to the possibility of personation of
the Mahatma's " astral form," and that he momentarily forgot
his experiences* with 1\1. T. and other Hindus. I do not, of
course, deny this to be the case, though part of Colonel Olcott's state-
ment in his deposition was quite uncalled for, and appeal'S to me to
render his lapse of memory somewhat singular. He seems to haw'
volunteered the odd remark that he "had had no correspondence with
anybody until then," whereas he had written numerous letters to
1\[. T. and other Hindus, and had started the Theosophical Societ.y
of India by means of such correspondence. And it must be l'emem-
* It may also be urged in Colonel Olcott's fa\'our that his later experiences
with 1\1. T. in Bombay would tend to obscure their earlier relationFl; but
against this again we must place the fact that Colonel Olcott appears from
his letters to have regarded these earlier relations as "ery specially memoraLle.
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena connected. fCitl~ TheosopllY. 239
bered that Colonel Olcott had the opportunity of cbrrecting his state-
lUent in proof, when he could not have been affected by that momentary
forgetfulness which overcame him in the presence of the pointed
question propounded by Mr. Myers.
Other instances of the unreliability of Colonel Olcott's statements,
due eit~er to peculiar lapses of memory or to extreme deficiency in the
faculty of observation, will be found on pp. 253, 309, and 365.
I cannot, therefore, regard Colonel Olcott's testimony as of any
scientific value. In particular, his testimony to the alleged "astral"
appearance in New York proves,'in my opinion, no more than that he
saw some one in his room, who may have been an ordinary Hindu, or
some other person, disguised as a Mahatma for the purpose, and acting
for Madame Blavatsky. And the same may be said of all his testi·
mony to apparitions of Mahatmas.
EVIDENCE OF MR. MOOINI M. COATl'ERJEE.
The testimony of another gentleman, !\lr. Mohini M. Chatterjee,
who gave evidence as to the apparitions of Mahatmas, is open to
0. similar charge of Jamentable want of accuracy; but in his case
it must be said that he always professed that he had never
paid any great attention to phenomena. Moreover, his testimony
never appeared to us to be of special importance ill the way
of establishing the genuineness of the supposed marvellous events
related by him, because we never thought it impossible that he might
Ilaye been deceh-ecl. We thought, however, that a further acquaint-
ance with the localities where the apparitions occurred, and the exami·
nation of other witnesses, might strengthen his evidence; but the
reyerse has proved to be the case. (See Appendix VII.) After con·
sidering the statements of the other witnesses, and examining the
places where the alleged events occurred, the probability that the
witnesses were imposed upon becomes much more manifest than
appears from a reading of Mr. Mohini's evidence alone. Indeed, Mr.
!\Iohini's description of the spots where the alleged" astral" apparitions
appeared is more than merely imperfect; it is almost ludicrous.
For instlmce, in describing the second alleged "astral" apparition,
Mr. Mohini stated :-
"We were sitting on the ground-on the rock, outBide the house in
Bombay, when a figure appeared a short distance away."
All the other witnesses appear to be agreed that the party were sitting
in the verandah, and not upon what some of them described as the ,·ock;
they gave this name to the irregular summit of the hill upon the side
of which the house (Crow's Nest Bungalow) was situated. There are
fiY6 terrace-fields or gardens on the side of the hill, and the verandah
Digitized by Google
•
240 M,'. Hodg8on'8 Report
where the part.y wpre sitting was on the same level as the topmost of
these. Above and beyond rose the summit of the hill like a high
bank, to which there was easy access from the farther side, not visible
from the terrace-gal'den or the verandah; and it was upon this summit
that the " figure" appeared. Having pointed this out to Mr. Mohini
in a personal interview, I learn that he attributes the inaccuracy of his
account to his defectin knowledge of the English language, and that
by "rock," he meant the ground of the top terrace just outside the
bungalow; the use of the word "rock" in this sense is certainly
inappropriate; the spot is elsewhere * described as the "garden of the
upper terrace." Mr. Mohini also pleads his defective knowledge of the
English language in explanation of certain other inconsistencies-to
which I drew his attention-betwel'n his statements and those of the
other witnesses.
Again, in the case of the first alleged "astral n apparitio.l, we had
been led by Mr. Mohini's deposition to suppose that not only himself
but the other witnesses bad recognised the figure. Being asked
whether all agreed that it could not be a real man walking in the way
described, Mr. Mohini replied :-
" Certainly. It seemed to us to bo the apparition of the original of the
portrait in Colonel Olcott's room, and which is R880Ciated with ono of the
Mahatmas."
In reply to Mr. Stack's question, whether he could distinguish the
features, Mr. Mohini replied: "Oh, yes, and the dress, the turban, and
everything," but afterwards, in reply to Mr. Gurney's question whether,
if he had seen the face, alone, he would have recognised it, he replil'd
that he did not know, that it was the whole thing taken together
which produced on him the impression that it was the apparition of the
original of the portrait in Colonel Olcott's room.
Now, not one of the other witnesses whom I examined recognised
the features; they could not even tell whether the figure had a beard or
not, with the exception of Mr. Ghosal, who "saw something like a
beard, but not very distinctly."
Nor are the witnesses by any means agreed about other points
to which Mr. Mohini refers. For instance, Mr. Mohini said the figure
"seemed to melt away." Mr. Ghosal said, "It appeared to me, and a
few of those present were of the same opinion, that the figure walked
over one of the trees and suddenly disappeared." Mr. Mohini now
explains that when he said the figure seemed to melt away, he meant
merely that the figure disappeared. [In his deposition before the Com-
mittee Mr. Mohini said that the figure disappeared, and when Mr.
• "Hints on ElIOteric Theof'Ophy," p. 00.
Digitized by Google
Oil PhenomelUl cOlllJeCtea l~itll Tl,e080pll!l. 241
Myers asked, "In what way clid it disappear t" Mr. Mohini
replied, "It seemed to melt away."J Another witness described the
figure as walking to and fro below the balcony on the third terrace field)
and appeared to think it could not have been an ordinary person,
because it would have been difficult for a man to walk freely in that
place, which he alleged to be full of thorny trees. But I found when I
inspected the old headquarters in Bombay that this description also was
inaccurate, and that it was perfectly easy for anyone, even though
disguised in flowing. robes, to walk freely over any of the terraces.
And I took care to ascertain that the terraces had not been altered in
the interval.
In short, after my examination of the locality, I was left without
any doubt that th~ appearances might have been well produced by
M. Coulomb in disguise. I have seenM. Coulomb disguised asa Mahatma,
and can understand that the figure may have been very impressive.
A dummy head (with shoulders), like that of a Hindu, with beard, kc.
and feha., is worn on the top of the head of the person disguised. A
long flowing muslin garment falls down in front, and by holding the
folds very slightly apart, the wearer is enabled to see, and to speak also,
if necessary. I do not think it in the least degree likely that any of the
witnesses in the above cases would have penetrated this disguise had
the figure been even lUuch nearer than it was, and the light much better.
I was unable to estimate the precise distance of the figure in the
second case, but in the first case the figure must, from an examination
of the locality, have been certainly more than 40 yards from the spec-
tators. We can hardly attach any importance to the supposed recog-
nition, ,and from a portrait only, of a figure at this distance, even in
bright moonlight. Moreover, a good view of the figure must have been
almost impossible in consequence of the trees and shrubs in the
neighbourhood.
The third case mentioned by Mr. Mohini, that of an alleged "astral "
apparition at Adyar, possesses, if possible, still less evidential value
than the foregoing, especially after Mr. Mohini's later accounts to
myself. It appears from Mr. Mohini's deposition that the figure
disappeared on one side of the ba.lcony * [terrace], at the edge of the
balcony, above a flight of steps.
r -
MR. MomNI: After a while I eaid that as I should not see llim for a
long time, on account of my going to Europe, I begged he would leave SODle
tangible mark of his visit. Tho figure then raiBed his hands and scemed to
throw 80mething at us. The next moment wo found a shower of roseB
* This iB the flat roof above the ground floor of tbe bungalow, marked on
the Plan as Terrace. Only a portion of it is represented within the limits of the
Plan.
Digitized by Google
242 Mr. Hodgsoll's Report
falling over us in the room-roses of a kind that could not have be~n pro-
cured on the premises. We re':l.uested the figure to disappear from that side
of the balcony where there was no exit. There was a tree on the other side,
and it was in order to prevent all suspicion that it might be something that
had got down the tni~ or anything of that kind, that we requested him to
disappear from the side where there was no exit. The figure went over to
that spot and then disappeared.
MR. MYERS: You 81\11' its disappearance 1
MR. MOBINI: Oh yes, it passed us slowly until it came to the edge of
the balcony, and then it was not to be seen any more.
MR. MYERS: The disappearance being sudden 1
MR. M.OBINI: Yes.
MR. GtrR.'QY: Was the height of the balcony such that anyone could
ha,'e jumped down from it 1
MR. MOBINI: The height was 15 or 20 feet, and, moreover, there were
people downsb\irs and allover the house, 80 that it would have been impos-
sible for a person to have jumped down without being noticed. Just beloW'
the balcony there is an open lawn. There were several persons looking at
the moment, and my own idea is that it would have been perfectly impossible
for a person to have jumped down.
MR. STACK: Why 1
MR. MOBISI: There is a small flight of stl/pS just below the balcony,
and if a man had jumped from the balcony he must have fallen upon the
steps and broken his legs, When the figure passed and re-passed us we
beard nothing of any footsteps. Besides myself, Damodar and ~Iadame
BlavatBky were in the room at the time.
Mr_ Damodar, whom I questioned, declared that the figure dis-
appeared at a spot which he pointed out to me; this spot was not near
the edge of the balcony, and was just opposite and close to the dOOl'
of the Occult Room which opens on the ba.lcony. (See Plan.) I
thought, at the time, that the disagreement between this account
and Mr. l\Iohini's might be due to a desire on Mr. Damodar's part to
convince me that Madame Coulomb was not acquainted with the cir-
cumstances of the case.
Mr_ lIohini, in the later account which he W've to me in our first
interview &ftet· my return from India, described the figure as dis-
appearing at a spot which to a great extent approxima.tes to that
pointed outby Mr. Damodar, but is nevertheless not quite in agreement;
and I feel bound to say, after careful consideration, that had it been in
complete agreement, Mr. Mohini's later account would have involved a.
clear and absolute stultification of his earlier one; and even as it is,
1\11'. l\Iohini's two accounts are fundamentally at variance. Instead of
the figure's disappealing, as was stated in his original deposition, on 0111J
Bide oj the balcony and abot'e ajligltt oj steps, the figure is now made to
disappear at a spot which should be described rather as the Irollt of
the bakony, and where there were no steps below. I cannot at.tribute
Digitized by Google
O/~ Phenomena connected fcith Theosoph/l. 243
any evidential value to these conflicting statements: nor does the
case seem to me improved by the explanation given to me by
Mr. Mohini in our last interview, that he had not examined the
place to see whether there were any steps below, and that it was
only when the question was put by Mr. Stack as to why it was
impossible for the figure to have jumped down [Mr. Mohini having
made the statement, and Mr. Stack having asked wIlY?] that he
thought he remembered there were steps under the balcony in that
spot (i.e., the spot described..in his later account). In Mr. Mohini's
earlier account the point of disappearance of the figure was determined
by the side of the balcony, the position of the tree on the other
side, the edge of the balcony, and the flight of steps. Mr. Mohini's
later account contradicts his earlier one in three out of theae four
dctermining conditions.
I may now say that the pa.l!SRgc quoted above from Mr. Mohini's
dE'position to the Committee, which was made before anything was known
bere publicly of the charges brought by the Coulombs, agrees entirely,
so far as it goes, both as to the movements of tbe figure and as to the
place ot its disappearance, with the account furnished to me indepen-
dently (that is, without any opportunity, as I believe, of knowing what
.Mr. Mohini had said) by Madame Coulomb, who alleges that she acted
as the Mahatma on this occasion. The spot where she described herself
as finally escaping from view was at the edge of the balcony on one
side of the balcony; a flight of steps was just below, and a tree was
near the other side of the balcony. Her account was that, after dis-
guising herself as a :M:ahatma in the bath-room-now Mr. Damod!l.r·s
room (see Plan)-she passed through the cupboard with the secret
double back into the Occult Room, and thence through the door leading
out upon the terrace, where she passed along close to the wall in a
st!>oping attitude until she came opposite the middle window of the
sitting-room, when she slowly rose to full height (the dummy head an<l
shoulders being added to her own stature). The spectators in the
room, she declared, Sl.luted with profound respect. She was provided,
she said, -.vith flowers, which were concealed in the folds of her muslin
robE', and which she threw over Mr. Mobini; and after walking up
and down on the terrace several times, she finally passed away at the
east side of the balcony, departing into the new room, which was
then in process of construction, and thence by the north side
of the terrace back into the bath-room. She alleged also that she had
taken off' her shoes in order to move silently, and that it wPS.
so da.rk that she hurt her feet against some nails on the terrace;
she said that she had reeeh·ed the flowers that she had thrown oYer Mr.
l\Iohmi from 1\ certain Madame de Wailly, dressmaker, who had
since left lIadras and is now living in Colombo, in Ceylo~ I
Digitized by Google
244 Mr. Hodgso,,'s Report
called upon Madame de Wailly in Colombo, and found tha.t she
recollected having received severa.l bunches of flowers near the
beginning of 1884, and having given some to lIadame Coulomb.
There was one slight difference, however, between the statement
of Madame Coulomb and that of Madame de Wailly. The former
was under the impression that the flowers given to her by Madame
de Wailly had come from Banga.Iore, a hill station, whereas
:Madame de Wailly was inclined to think that she had received them
from oil. friend living on the outskirts of Madras, who had presented
her with a bouquet of magnificent roses. She believed that it was
these roses which she had given to Madame Coulomb.
Madame Coulomb stated that the night was dark, and ill reply
to my specilll inquiry, said that there was no moonlight. Mr. Mohini,
however, had said in reply to a question put by Mr. Myers, that there
was moonlight on the balcony. On reference to the calendar it ap-
peara that there was no moonlight. Mr. Mohini now conjectures
that he may have mi'lta.ken the "fading lamp-light" or. the limit of the
balcony for moonlight.
T do not myself feel quite certain about the existence of much
lamp-light on the balcony j but it may be desirable to add here that, in
any case, large portions of the -terrace must have remained in darkness,
and that although the reader of Mr. Mohini's evidence given to the
Committee might almost suppose that the only exit from the terrace
was by means of a "tree, or anything of that kind," there are various
ways in which an ordinary person disguised might have made his
escape. The spectators were in the sitting-room looking from the
middle window, and a reference to the Plan will show that cert/Un
portions of the terrace on both sides, east and west, were entirely hidden
from their observationo The terrace might have been easily left not
only by the help of trees, but by proceeding in the direction of the
uow room, or by mounting the roof,-not to speak of the door of the
Occult Room, and the double-backed cupboard; or, considering that it
was 11 p.m., and that there was no moonlight, by a ladder from the
terrace to the ground. Indeed, I have myself often, as 1\ lad, pel'-
formed a greater "drop" feat than would b3 required for leaving the
terrace without the help even of a ladder.
I ought to mention that Mr. Mohini had not the opportunity of
:seeing the proof-sheets of his deposition and correcting any errors that
might have been made in our First Report. On June Ist, 1885, he wrote
to Mr. Myers remarking on this fact, and stating that he had been
looking over the record of hia testimony given before the Committee,
and he makes a correction in one particular. I need hardly say that
I have not used the statement which Mr. Mohini thus corrects in my
criticism of Mr. Mohini's evidence. Mr. Mohini, howe\'er, omitted to
Digitized by Google
On PIlenomelia connected 10itl, Theo8oph!l. 245
correct another error, the discovery of which contributes to destroy
the interest of another marvel described by him (see Appendix VII.);
namely, the case of an alleged phenomenal letter which appeared on
the table of Mr. Keightley, a member of the Theosophical Society, ill
Paris, .and which referred to the "/riend8" of Mr. Mohini. The
question was asked by Mr. Myers :-
" Could the letter have been written sODie days before, and the al1usion
as to taking your friends into the country inserted afterwards 1"
Mr. Mohini is represented in the deposition as replying:-
"No, bel.'Souse Mr. Keightley and Mr. Oakley only came to the house by
accident that morning."
Mr. Oakley has told me that he went frequently to the Palis
apartments and might be expected to call. Mr. Keigbtley has told me
that he was unaware that Mr. Oakley was even in Paris, and that Mr.
Oakley had called unexpectedly. But both Mr. Keightley and .MI·.
Oakley are agreed that Mr. Keightley himself was living in the rooms
at the time with Mr. llohini. After this discrepancy had been pointed
out, Mr. Mohini declared that the reply he is represented as giving
he did not give, and that the shorthand reporter, who took down
the evidence given before the Committee, must have made a.
mistake. But the reader may himRelf compare Mr. Mohini's evidence
with that of the other witnesses (see Appendix VII.), and he will see
how much more marvellous the incidents in question have become
under the constructive and destructive action of Mr. Mohini's memory.
For example, in the case just referred to, of the letter found on Mr.
Keightley's table, it would appear from Mr. Mohini's account thl\t he
had gone with Mr. Keightley into Mr. Oakley's room, that Mr. Oakley
and Babula were together, and that both Mr. Mohini and Babula were
in Mr. Keightley's sight while the latter was absent from his room.
Under these circumatances it was not easy to see who could have placed
the letter orr the table in the interval; but when we find that, according
to Mr. Oakley and Mr. Keigbtley, Mr. Mohini did not enter Mr.
Oakley's room at all, that Babula was not with Mr. Oakley, that
there was probably a short internl of time during which both Mr.
Mohini and Babula were out of the sight of Mr. Keightley, and also of
Mr. Oakley, the incident ceoses to present any difficulty in the way of
an ordinary explanation.
REMAINING EVIDENCE FOR ApPEARANCES OF MAHATMAS.
I lleed not here say much 011 the other alleged appearances of
Mahatmas, in either their ordinary physical or their" astral" bodies. A
confederate ill disguise is generally an easy and sufficient explanation of
them. I have, I think, ShOWll, ill Appendix VIII., that there is no real
Digitized by Google
2-16 JIi.. HodgsOll'1l Report
difficulty in applying this explanation even to the case of )ll'. Rama-
swamier, whose account of his experience has made somuch impression on
1\11'. Sinnett. I have dealt similal'ly with other appearances in Appen-
dices IX. and X. The statements in 1[1'. Brown's pamphlet, Some
Experiences in Inclia, concerning which he was unwilling to give me
any further details, need not detain us long. The 0111y time he saw
" Mah!l.tma Koot Hoomi" in broad daylight, the figure was at a
distance. Mr. Brown says: "On the morning of t.he 20th he caDle
to my tent, and said, ' Now you see me before you in the flesh ; look
and assure yourself that it is I,' and left a letter of instructions and
silk handkerchief, both of which are now in my possession," This inci-
dent happened, it appears, at about 2 a.m., and Mr. Brown's particular
reason for thinking the figure was " Koot Hoomi" seemed to be only
that the letter given to him was in the same handwriting as that of
letters" phenomenally" received at headquarters from "Koot Hoomi"-.
The chief persons who testify from personal experience to the actual
existence of the Brotherhood in Thibet are (besides Madame Blavatsky)
)[1'. Damodar and Mr. Babajee Dharbagiri Natb. Of the value of Mr.
Damodar's evidence I have already said enough. 'Vith regard to )[1'.
Babajee D. Nath, it is shown in Appendix I. that he has inyolved him-
self in the attempted attack by Madame Blavatsky on the "Sassoon
Telegram" letter, and a reference to Appendix IV. ,viII show that he
lias made statements which I cannot but rp.gard as wilfully false con-
cerning matters connected with the Shrine. Again, he stated to me
that he had lived with the Brothers only during certain months out of
a specific period of two years which immediately followed his leaving,
in 1878, the position of private secretary to a deputy-collector in
the Kurnool district, although he had previously stated to Mr. Sinnett
(" The Occult World." pp. 154, 155, Fourth Edition) that he had been
living with Koot Hoomifor ten years. Further, it was, he said, only a few
months after the lapse of these two years that he joined the Theosophical
Socicty in Bombay, and thenceforward he has been cont.inuously at the
headquarters of the Society, except when he paid two visits to the
Nortb, one to Thibet, a.nd the other to the borders of Thibet. Now, from
this account it is clear that Mr. Bab~iee must have joined t.he Theo-
s·.lphical Society in Bombay at least as early as 1881, and remained
some time at the headquarters in that year. But he does not seem to
have made his first appearance as Babajee Dharbagiri Nath until
towards the end of 18R2, at about which timo he yisited :\[1'. Sinnett.
When, later, he joined the headquarters of the Society, he was recog-
lIised by Theosophists as Gwala K. Deb, who had bef'1l there before.
The assertion made by Madame Coulomb in her pamphlet., * anel
• "SoDle Account of my Intercourse with lIadallle Bla\"atsky," I'P. 48-50.
Digitized by Google
01, Pllenomena connected lcitk TlIeo8opl,y. 247
repeated more explicitly to myself, tha.t Mr. Babajee D. Nath is the
same person who was previously known in the headquarters at Bombay
as Gwala K. Deb, is confirmed by the testimony of Mr. A. O. Hume,
j)Ir. Tookaram Tatyo., Mr. Hal Nilaji Pitale, and Mr. Ezekiel; a.nd it
seems to ba the only explanation of the above statements made to me
by Mr. Babajee himself. Mr. Babll:jee indeed affirms that he never
passed under the name of Gwlila K. Deb, but it is by 110 meaDs
likely that all these witnesses should mistake another person for
Mr. Babajee, for he is very small, and his voice has a very peculiar
timbre. Moreover, he seerus to have no objection to assuming different
characters, since at this very time he represents two persons in the last
Official Annual Report issued by the Theosophical Society; that is to
say, he appears under two different names. On p. 8 he appears as the
delegate of the Vizianagram Branch under the name of Babajee D.
Nat" (otherwise written on pp. 83, 117, 120, as Mr. Dltarbagiri Natll,
in connection with the Anniversary Hall Committee), and on p. 131-
Appendix A. of the Theosophical Society's Report-he appears as one
of the Assistant Recording Secretaries under the name of S. KriBlma-
swami. Yet Babajee Dharbagiri Nath is the same person as S. Krishna-
swami, the latter being Mr. Babajee's real name, according to his own
account to myself. I think that all will agree that the mere assertion ofa
personwho has made false andcontradictory statements,and has appeared
under different aliaseB, is insufficient to prove him" the Chela of Koot
Hoomi that he declares himself to be," though it is difficult to avoid
the conclusion that" if he is anything else," to use Mr. Sinnett's words,
"he, of course, must be a false witness, invented to prop up Madame
Blavatsky's vast imposture." Additional evidence of this will be found
in Part II. I may add that Mr. Babajee, if I may judge from the account
(perhaps not very reliable) which he has given me of his changeful life,
appears to be almost isolated and entirely homeless apart from the
Theosophical Society, and is, I think, eagerly ready, out of gratitude
for sheltering kindness received from Madame Blavatsky, to dispense on
her behalf most freely with the truth.
Ramo. Sourindro Gargya Devo., from whose alleged l~tter to Madame
Blavatsky, asserting his intimacy with the Masters (published ill TI,e
Tlu1oBopltiBt for December, 1883), an extract was quoted in our First
Report, cannot be regarded as an independent witness; seeing that his
~wn existence is even more problematical than that of the Mahatmas,
the only evidence for it being the statement of Madame Blavatsky,
Mr. Babajee, and Mr. Damodar, that they know him. And Mr. Mirza
Moorad Alee Beg, whose assertions (published in TIle TIMoBoplliBt for
August, 1881) committed him, as we thought, nearly as fully as
Madame Blavatsky and Mr. Damodar are committed, to the existence
and powers of the Mahatmas, turns out, according to the statemt'nta
Digitized by Google
248 Mr. Hodg8on'8 RejJort
of various Theosophists, to be altogether untrustworthy and to have
shown evident marks of insanity. He is said to have practised Black
Magic [!] before his connection with the Theosophical Society, which
he left long ago, and became a Roman Catholic; he is now a Mussul-
man. I muat conclude, then, that the strongest apparent evidence for
the existence of the Mahatmas comes to nothing at all.
ALLEGED PRECIPITATED WRITING, «C.
I now pass to the consideration of alleged phenomenal occur-
rences other than apparitions, especially those connected with pheno-
menalletters and the alleged precipitated writing.
I will first draw attention to the statement made by both Mr.
Damodar and Mr. P. Sreenevas Roo, that Shrine phenomena occurred
even after Madame Blavatsky left Madras, and therefore after the
hole in the party wall had been blocked up, according to 1\1. Coulomb'a
own statements.
In reply to my inquiries it was admitted by Mr. Damodar and Mr.
P. Sreenevas Rao, that the only instances of these later Shrine pheno-
mena are the two given in Appendix XI. It will be noticed by the
reader, on reference to the Appendix, that in the second case, where a
letter apparently requiring a specific reply is placed in the Shrine, a
considerable interval elapses, and is probably necessary, before the
answer appears. In the first case no letter is pla.ced in the Shrine, no
specific communication is required, and a Shrine letter can be, and is.
produced without delay. It will be obvious to the reader what part.
Mr. Damodar may have played in the proceedings; and that for these
particular phenomena an opening in the back of the Shrine would ha,'e
been unnecessary.
It had been alleged, indeed, that when Ma.dame Blavatsky was at.
Ma.dras, instantaneous replies to mental queries ha.d been found in the
Shrine, that envelopes containing questions were returned absolutely
intact to the senders, and that when they were opened replies were
found within in the handwriting of a Mahatma.. After numerous
inquiries I found that in all the cases I could hear of, the mental query
was such as might easily have been anticipated by Madame Blavatsky;
indeed, the quei'Y generally WI\S whether the questioner would meet
with any success in his endeavour to become a pupil of the Mahatma,
and the answer was frequently of the indefinite and oracular sort.
In some cases the envelope inserted in the Shrine was one which
had been previously sent to hea.dquarters for that purpose, so that the
envelope might have been opened and the answer written therein
before it was placed in the Shrine at all. Where sufficient care was
taken in the preparation of the inquiry, either no specific answer was
Digitized by Google
01, Phenomena connected with TheosopllU. 249
given or the answer was delayed. Mr. Ezekiel, Theosophist of Poon",
has described to me the details of a case where he received a.
Mahatma communicil.tion intended to be a reply to a specific question
which he had asked. These details entirely corroborate my conclusion
cons:erning Madame Blavatsky, but Mr. Ezekiel is umvilling that they
should be published; he has given me permission, however, to state
that the following passage which occurs in Madame Coulomb's
pamphlet (p. 73) is quite justified.
r.There is another phenomenon which I nluat mention, because it took
place in the presence of Mr. Ezekiel, whom I shall have to mention again
later. At the time of the Anniversary, among the many delegates that came
on this occasion was the above gentleman. He was in company with others
in MadanIe's apartment when a letter fell from the ceiling. Mr. Ezekiel
formed the natural supposition that it must have been pulled down by somo
contrivance, so he went and unburdened his heart to several Fellows of the
Society, giving t1rla as a great secret. However, although a secret, it came
to Madame's ears and she immediately asked my husband to take out the
screw-rings through which tlte string had passed, and stop tlte holes witlt 0.
little paint to remove all traces; this done, she called some one to show
how ridiculous the accusation had been."
This letter fell in Madame Blavatsky's sitting-room, and was probably
arranged in the same way as the" phenomenal" letter prepared for me
by the Ooulombs, which was described in the April number of the
Jowrnal, in the words of a letter written by me from India, as
follows :-
Madras, Jaullary 9th, 1885.
This morning I called upon the Coulombs, who are living at the house
of :Mrs. Dyer in St. Thom~. I conversed a short time with M. Coulomb
before Madame Coulomb appeared. In the course of the conversation tllat
followed I remarked, concerning certain cases of premonition, that I had 110
satisfactory theory at present to account for them. At t1rla nloment some-
thing white appeared, touching my hair, and fell on the 1100r. It was a
letter. I picked it up. It was addre88ed to myseH. M. and Madame
Coulomb were sitting near me and in front of me. I had observed no motion
on their part which could account for tlte appearance of tlte letter. Examin-
ing the ceiling as I stood I could detect no ftaw ; it appeared intact. 011
opening the letter, I found it referred to the conversation which had JUSt;
taken place. I transcribe the words :-
"Because the existing cause of to-day foretells the effect of tN-morrow
-0. bud aBSures us beforehand the full-blown rose of to-morrow; on seeing
a fine field of corn in which are buried eggs of locusts, we are to foresee that
that corn will never enter tlle granary; by tlte appearan~e of consumptive
fatlter and scrofulous mother a sickly child can be foretold.. Now all these
causes, which bring to us these effects, have in their turn tlteir effects them-
s
Digitized by Google
250 MI'. Hodg8on'8 Report
Belves, and 80, ad "\1illitum; and as nothing is lost in Nature, but remains
impressed in the akaaa, so the acute perception of the seer beginning at the
source arrives at the result with exactitude.
" TB'E NEW ADEPT, COLUKBl"S."
M. Coulomb then described the origin of the letter.
A large beam supported the ceiling, and resting on this, at right angles
to it, was a series of small beams WIth spaces between them. These spaces
were filled with blocks of wood, with mortar to keep them in place. Part
of this mortar had been scraped out on the top of the large beam and between
two smaller ones, 80 that a letter could be inserted and lie flat on the top of
the large beam. Round the letter was twice passed a piece of thread of the
Banle colour as the ceiling. One end of the thread remained loose on the
letter, the other end was in the htmd of a person outside the room. The
thread ran from the letter, close to the ceiling, passed outside and hunS
down. I was sitting under the main beam. The subject of conversation
was led up to, and at the given signal (a call to the dog) the confederate in
the verandah beyond pulled the thread and the letter fell. The confederate
drew the thread entirely away and left the spot. The crevice for the
letter might, in a few moments, have been stopped up and covered with
dust, 80 that no aperture whatever appeared in the neighbourhood of the
ceilin~l
The ceiling of Madame Blavatsky's sitting-room was constructed in
the same way as the one here described, and would, therefore, be suited
for the occurrence of similar phenomena. Besides the letter receh-ed
by Mr. Ezekiel, the letter mentioned in Appendix V. also fell in this
room. I examined the beam, and observed a crevice well suited for the
production of the phenomenon; this crevice was still in existence when
I left Madras.
In connection with phenomenal incidents various envelopes have
been shown to me by Theosophists which were supposed to have been
completely fastened, but from all of these the contents might have heen
in my opinion even more easily a.bstracted than from the sealed
envelope described in detail in Appendix V., which presented clear
traces of having been surreptitiously opened by the withdrawal of the
right fiap, which had just esca.ped being securely held, if held at all,
by the wu. In the case of one large sealed envelope shown to me by
a prominent native Theosophist, the wax held the upper and lower
flaps only, and hardly came within a quarter of an inch of the side
flaps; the crumpling suggested that the right fiap here also had heen
withdrawn.
After :Madame Blavatsky's departure for Europe the Mahatma
communications-with the two exceptions already mentioned-were
found, not in the Shrine, but in various other places about the house,
chiefly the office-room. The accounts of many cases of this kind were
published in our First Report. I made careful inquiriC!S concerning
Digitized by Google
On Pllenomena connected trith 1'lle08ophg. 251
all of them, and found that in every instance the letter might have been
easily placed by Mr. Damodar.
In one case mentioned by Mr. Babajee, where he found a letter upon
his desk in the office-room, he wrote :-
" On approaching my desk, I saw diBtinctly an envelope and paper
forming themselves." In his account to me, however, he says only that
" the letter appeared to increase in size as he approached his desk" !
There are, I think, only two instances among those given in our
First Report, where the modUlI operandi, if Mr. Damodar were the
agent, will not be obvious, and I shall briefly describe these.
Our evidence for them is an account written by Mr. Babajee and
forwarded through Dr Hartmann to Mr. Myers for the Committee,
and after what I have said as to the value of Mr. Babajee's evidence, it
may seem unnecessary to investigate them further. Still, as they seem
to me-the second especially-to form an interesting sample of the
kind of evidence which is apparently thought at the headquarters of
the Theosophical Society to be valuable, I will give them. The first is
as follows:-
.. On or about the 1st Augult, 1884, I was examining whether the wrap-
pers addTe888d to luhlcribers (to The TheoIophilt) were correct, sitting in the
room next to our office-room; on a large camp table were Ipread the
addressed wrappen. With lOme noise fell a heavy packet (with a covering
letter to me) 011 the wrapperl. The letter contained lome wholesome and
timely advice to me, and directed me to hand over the packet to Mr. St.
George Lane-Fox. I accordingly gave it, and found that in tho packet was a
Chinese envelope and letter addressed both to Dr. F. Hartmann and to Mr.
Lane-Fox. When the packet fell on my table, there was nobody then in the
room or in the office-room. I was alone. The letter and contents were in
the well-known handwritings of Mahatma Koot Hoomi and of B.D.S."
I found from Mr. Babajee that 1\lr. Damodar was reclining on a.
couch outside the office-room, and adjoining its door. Mr. Babajee was
sittillg with his back turned partly towards the direction of the spot
occupied by Mr. Damodar, ill such a position that 110 movement of
Mr. Damodar's nl'ed have been observed by him. The two rooms are
divided by a partition about seven feet high, the lower part 0 which
is zinc, the upper part being formed of wire trellis-work. The rooms
are twice as high as the partition. An object might easily be thrown
fl·om the office-room entrance so as to fall 011 the table.
The othcr case is the following :-
.. M. R. Ry. G. Sreenivas Row Garu, Sule Registrar of Cumbum,
Kurnool District, India, wrote a letter, dated 15th Jtmuary, 1884, to the
addreSl of Damodar, who gave it to me for reply. Early in the morning, at
'1 a.m., I arranged all the papers to be IUlIwered on my desk, with which
8 2
Digitized by Google
252 J[I". Hodgsoll's Report
nobody ever interferes. I put this letter of Sreeniv88 Row in a prominent
place on the table, and then after locking the office-room and taking the key
with myself, I went out to take a bath; at about 8 a.m. I returned and
opened the office door; on approaching my table, what do I find 7 Endorse-
ment on Sreeniv88 Row's letter in blue pencil, in the handwriting of
Mahatma K.B., ordering me to answer the letter. There is not the least
possibility of doubt in this case."
After reading this, what was my surprise to find that the room
which I have just described, next to the office-room, and divided from
it only by the partition reachmg half-way to the ceiling, was never
locked, and that there is no lock to the door, while a child might climb
from the table over the partition into the office-room! Truly "there is
not the least possibility of doubt in this case" that the phenomenon
might have been produced by normal means.
Various other letter-phenomena which were mentioned in our First
Report, had occurred at the headquarters in Bombay. Several letters
had fallen in the guest-chamber, which adjoined Madame. Blavatsky's
bedroom, in Crow's Nest Bungalow. Among these were the phenomena
recounted by Professor Smith, Mr. Shroff, and Mr. Bal Nilaji Pitale
(see "Hints on Esoteric Theosophy"), and that described by Mr.
Sinnett in "The Occult World," fourth edition, p. 120. The ceiling of
this room is boarded, not plastered; and the remark which we made
in our First Report, that all accounts of letters faIling in such
places must be regarded with suspicion, I found to be quite justified.
In Mr. Shroff's account it is stated that the wooden ceiling of the
room was perfectly inwt. Mr. Shroff informed me that the account
was drawn up in the first instance by himself, and tbt afterwards
some passages were added and alterations made at the suggestion
of others present. He did not appear to have made any "examination" ;
he said that he had "looked up at the ceiling," that he had been posi-
tive beforehand about the genuineness of the phenomena, and that he
did not care to scrutinise with the eye of a critic.
M. Coulomb asserted, before I went to Bombay, tha.t in a garret
aboye this room a tra.p was fixed with a string running from it into
another room. The letter was placed in the trap just above one of the
interstices between the boards of the ceiling, and on a given signal, the
string was pulled and the letter fell. On one occasion, when Judge
Gadgill was present, the trap would not work, and M. Coulomb
had himself ascended the garret and pushed the letter down. He
described the garret particularly, the entrance to which is through a
1;rap-door in the ceiling of Madame Blavatsky's bedroom. The trap, he
asserted, was taken away when Judge Gadgill desired to inspect the
garret. The case where Judge Gadgill was present is mentioned by
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena cOilnected fDitll 1'heo8ojJlIY. 253
Oolonel Olcott in his deposition, but as there given, is likely to be very
misleading. He said :-
"Judge Gadgill, and one or two others, knowing that they had to deal
with some very difficult sceptics at Baroda, who would demand if they had
taken the precaution to examine the premises and see if the letter could
have been delivered by any mechanical device, thereupon made a search of
the place, and even got a ladder and went upon the tiled roof. He will tell
you that the examination made then, and a subsequent and more careful one,
which was made in my own presence and with my aaaistance-for I held the
ladder-left no ground for suspicion of bad faith."
Now the tiled roof spoken of was above the garret, and there is not
the slightest trace of any suspicious circumstance discoverable from
there. Moreover, part of the hill very closely adjoins the bungalow, so
that it is but a short step from the bank to the tiled roof, and to speak
of getting a ladder and going upon the tiled roof is quite as absurd as
to speak of getting a ladder and going upon the sofa.
According to M. Ooulomb, when Mr. Gadgill requested to examine
the garret Madame Bla.vatsky ordered the only available ladder to be
hidden, so that Mr. Gadgill was unable to examine the garret at the
time; and before he made his "subsequent and more careful" exami-
nation, having obtained a ladder for the purpose, M. Coulomb had
removed the trap, filled the interstices with bits of bamboo and stick
~d dust, and endeavoured to make the garret look as though it had
Leen entirely undisturbed for a long time.
After my return from Bombay, Oolonel Olcott gave me another
account of the incident,. in which he said that he was not at Bombay
when the letter fell; that he was told that Judge Gadgill went on the
tiled roof; that it was a week or so later when Judge GadgiJI examined
the garret; that he (Oolonel Olcott) held the ladder to steady it, as it
was placed on a table to enable the trap-door to be reached, and that he
told Judge Gadgill to first look at the jowings of the boards and see if
they were not choked with cobwebs, dust, &c., thus showing that they
• Another statement made by Colonel Olcott in his deposition concerning
the above incident is worthy of remark. He said: .. One of thOlle present
suddenly called attention to a collection of vapour that had that instant
appeared in the air up towards the comer of the room ; and all present, looking,
saw this take the form of a letter." The letter which feU was addressed, "To
Tookaram and Others," according to the account given to me by Mr. Tookaram
Tatya himself (" merchant and commission'agent, and the active member
working at the Hommopathic Charitable Dispensary established at Bombay
under the auspices of the Theosophical Society, and practising mesmerism in
its curative branch both at home and at the dispensary"). Concerning the fall
of the letter, Mr. Tookaram states: .. The grandson of Iyalu Naidu said he
saw a flash of light near the ceiling, which contracted into a letter, and fell
fluttering on the floor. I saw the letter just as it struck the floor."
How a little dust can blind one's eyea !
Digitized by Google
254 Mr. Hodgson', Report
could not have been used for pushing letters through. I neglected to
ask Colonel Olcott whether this suggestion originated from himself or
from Madame Blavatsky.
I examined carefully, when I was at Bombay, the room and the
garret, the entrance to which is through a trap-door in the ceiling of
what was Madame Blavatsky's bedroom. The appearance of the
garret corresponded so accurately with M. Coulomb's detailed descrip-
tion as to convince me that he was familiar with it. Some of the
interstices in the ceiling were open; others had evidently been carefully
filled with bits of stick and dust, and I dropped severa1 pieces of
bamboo which I found in the garret, and which were more than a
quarter of an inch thick, through one of the interstices. A copy of our
Proceeding, might easily have been pushed through, and interstices
were plainly visible in the ceiling from oolow. I was unfortunately
nnable to see Judge Gadgill himself, but after my examination of the
room I felt that he could probably have added little important evidence.
There were also instances of objects falling in a room roofed by a.
ceiling-cloth, which was occupied by Colonel Olcott in another house; one
of these (from "Hints on Esoteric Theosophy") was given in our First
Report. I did not see this room, but Colonel Olcott, in reply to my
inquiries, informed me that no examination of the ceiling-cloth was made,
so that Madame Coulomb's statement that the card which came fluttering
down was pushed from above througb a slit made in the ceiIing-cloth is
very probably correct.
, _)3ut cases had occurred, not only of the appearance, but of the
disappearance of lettel'S. Chief among these was the disappearance of
the packet in the Vega. case. This incident is described in "Hints on
Esoteric Theosophy." It was alleged that a letter was conveyed by IL
Mahatma from Mr. Eglinton on the steanlship Vega., between Colombo
and Aden, to Madame Blavatsky at Bombay, and again from Bombay
to Mrs. Gordon at Howrah. It is clear from the account of this
occurrence, as we pointed out in our First Report, that there was no
proof whatever of identity between the letter received at Bombay and
that shown on the Vega.. The fall of the letter in Bombay is somewhat
strangelydescribed in the following certificate. (See" Hints on Esoteric
Theosophy.")
" At 8 p.m. (Bombay time), on Friday, the 24tll March, 1882, we were
spending our time with Madanle Blavatllky in the room as the wind was
blowing powerfully outaide. )[adame told us that she felt that something
would occur. The whole party, consisting of 7 persons, then adjourned
on the terrace, and within a few minutes after our being there we saw a
letter drop as if from under the roof above. Some of us saw the letter
coming slanting from one direction and drop quite opp<>aite to where it came
from. The letter, on being opened, was found to contain a closed envelope
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena cOJlnected witn 1'heoaoplly. 255
to the address of Mrs. Gordon, Bowrah; on the reverse side were three
crosses ttt in pencil. The envelope was of bluish colour and thin. The open
letter written in red pencil contained certain instructions to Madame
Blavatsky, and accordingly she put the envelope, together with three visiting
cards, and strung them all with a blue thread of silk and put the packet as
directed on a bookcase, and within 5 minutes after it was put there it
evaporated, to our no small surprise.
"K. M. SHROFF,
" Vice-President .&nnbay T. S.
"GWALA K. DEB, F.T.S.
"DAMoDAR K. MAVALANKAR, F.T.S:
"MARTANDRBW B. NAGNATB, F.T.S.
"DOUB B. BHARUCHA, F.T.S.
"BHAVANI SHANKAR, F.T.S."
" The packet was taken away from the bookcase at 21 minutes past 8
p.m. (9, Madras time). A letter from Mr. Eglinton to myself was also
received by me. In it he confesses to a firm belief in the' Brothers.' Speaks
of Koot Boomi having visited him two nights ago (the 22nd) on the
Vega, &c.
"B. P. BUYATSXY."
Mr. Martandrao B. Nagnath and Mr. Bhavani Shankar, whom I
questioned at Madras, could give but little additional information.
:Mr. Martandrao said that he first saw the letter in the air at about
10 feet from the door. Mr. Bhavani (concerning whom see p. 261 and
Appendix IX.) said that he first saw the letter as it st\-uck the door of
the verandah, that it contained an enclosure to Madame Blavatsky
beginning " Old woman get up," and ordering her to get some cards
of her own, and sew them up with the letter with green thread, and
put the packet on the top of a large cupboard; that the packet was
placed there as directed, and in about one minute afterwards it had
disappeared. Mr. Shroff, whom I saw in Bombay, was unable at first
to recollect the incident at all, and when he did recollect it, was unable
to give me any details.
Mr. Dorab H. Bharucha, medical student, whom I also saw in
Bombay, said, in reply to my inquiries, that he saw the letter in the air,
that when he first saw the letter it was close to the branches of a
neighbouring tree, and that it came in such a way that it might have
been thrown from the tree. It should be noticed that no opportunity
was given to any of the witnesses to place any test marks on the packet.if.
• Itis the more important to notice this, because in describing the incident
in .. The Occult WorId," 4th ed., p. 132, Mr. Sinnett says the cards were"written
on by them at the time," an exprelllion which certainly suggests that some one
besides Madame Blavatsky had written on them. That this was not the case
may be inferred from the above aecounts. Moreover, Mrs. Gordon describes the
writing on the cards received at Howrah, but makes no allusion to any except
that of Madame Blavatsky and llahatmas Koot Hoomi and 1\1.. so that jf
others did write on them at Bombay there was .. want of correspondencebetween
the cards seen at Bombay, and those Reen at Howrah.
Digitized by Google
256 NI'. Hoagson'8 Report
It was to Madame Bla¥&tsky herself that the instructions were given
ill "the open letter written in red pencil." Mr. Bharucha has given me
further details which throw some light upon the e\'aporation of the
packet. The whole party entered Madame BlaY80tsky's sitting-room
after the letter was taken up j and when Madame Blavatsky had ful·
filled ber (own) instructions, and placed the packet on the bookcase,
the whole party left the room. Several minutes elapsed before they
returned to the room, and when they returned the packet had dis-
appeared. lIr. Bharucha described the position of the bookcase where
the letter was placed, giving me a pencil sketch of the room. He did
not know that any opening existed on that side of the room where the
bookcase was situated, and was unaware that the bookcase stood im-
mediately in front of a double venetianed door, which communicates
with a sort of alley, part of which formed Babula's room. That this
was so I had ascertained by my own examination of the room at Crow's
Nest Bungalow. Probably the top portion of the venetianed door may
have been by some means concealed from view. M. Coulomb asserts
that it was hidden by a piece of carpeting, and this would account fOI'
Mr. Bharucha's not noticing it. The venetian spaces of this door are
very wide and allow the hand and most of the forearm to be thrust
through. I presume,therefore, that the evaporation which astonished the
witnesses-I should perhaps say the non-witnesses-was due not so
much to the volatile nature of the packet itself, as to the protrusile
capacity of Babula's hand. As to the fall of what purported to be the
same letter at Howrah, in the presence of Colonel Olcott and Colonel
and lIrs. Gordon, in the room which had been occupioo by llr.
Eglinton, it may of course have been accomplished by a confederate,
in one of the ways already described.}
Other instances of " phenomenal" letters will be found mentioned in
Appendices XII., XIII. and XIV. It remains only to add here that in
those cases where the immediately previous subject of conversation waS
referred to in the Mahatma communication, there is no difficulty in
supposing that the special topic was led up to by Madame Blavatsky.
"TUE OCCULT 'YORLD" PUENOllENA.
The phenomena described by Mr. Sinnettin .. The Occult 'Vorld" now
demand consideration. And first I shall deal with several cases
selected by Mr. Sinnett in his deposition to the Committee, as these
were presumably thought by him to be of special importance. The first
case described by Mr. Siunett to the Committee was that of a letter
which he had written to Koot Hoomi.
.. Having completed the note, I put it into an envelope, and took it t()
Madame Blavataky, who was sitting in the drawing-room witll my wife. 1
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena connected fritl, Theosoph!l. 257
said to her, • 'Will you get that taken, if you can, and get me an answer 7'
She put the letter into her pocket, and rose to go to her room. All the
windows were open, as is usual in India. As she paBBed out I walked to
the drawing-room door. She was out of my sight but for an instant of time~
when she cried out, 'Oh, he has taken it from me now.' I will undertake
to say that she was not out of my sight for 10 seconds. Having uttered
that exclamation, she returned to the drawing-room, and we then proceeded
together to my office at the back of my house. I went on with what I was
doing, and she simply lay on the sofa in my full view. She remained there.
perhaps, for between 5 or 10 minutes, when, suddenly lifting her head
from the pillow, she pointed to it and said, •There is your letter.' I should
mention, as a little fact which may bear upon occult physics, that the moment
before I distinctly heard a peculiar rushing sound through the air. It was, I
think, the only occasion on which I had heard such a sound, and she asked
me afterwards if I had heard it. The letter lay on the pillow, the name-
which I had written on the envelope being scratched out, and my own name
written immediately above it. The envelope was unopened, and in precisely
the same state, with the difference I have mentioned, as when I gave it to
Madame Blavatsky. I cut the envelope open, and found inside an answer
to the question which I had asked the Mahatma."
From this account it appears that Madame Blavatsky was not out
of 1olr. Sinnett's sight for ten seconas, but in the account given in
"The Occult WorId"(pp. 96-97) Mr. Sinnett undertakes to say only that
she had Dot been away to her own room t/'irty seconds, admitting that
she was also out of his sight for a minute or two in Mrs. Sinnett's room.
'After this I cannot feel certain that Madame Blavatsky may not ha"e
been absent in her own room considerably more than 30 seconds, nor
do I feel certain that Madame Blavatsky nlay not have retired to some
other room during the interval of "a few minutes II which Mr.
Sinnett assigns to her conversation with Mrs. Sinnett in the adjoining
room. Even apart from this uncertainty, I cannot attach any impor-
tance to the case after finding that on my second trial I could open a.
finnly closed ordinary adhesive envelope under such conditions as are
described by Mr. Sinnett, read the enclosed note and reply to it, the
question and the reply being as long as those of Mr. Sinnett's, and
re-close the envelope, leaving it apparently in the same condition as
before, in one minute; and it appears to me quite possible that Madame
BIl\vatsky, with her probably superior skill and practice, might have
easily performed the task in 30 seconds. I do not suppose that Mr_
Sinnett would wish to maintain that the "peculiar rushing sound
through the air" could not hale been produced by ordinary means at,
the disposal of Madame Blavatsky.
The next case mentioned by Mr. Sinnett was the fall of a letter in
the guest-room at Crow's Nest Bungalow, and is thus described in his
deposition.
Digitized by Google
268 Mr. Hodg8on'8 Report
" I had been expecting a letter from Keot Hoomi, but on my arrival at
Bombay I did not find one awaiting me at the headquarters of the Theo-
sophical Society there. I had written, 88king him seversl questions. I bad
got in late at night, and on the following morning I WIIS walking about the
verandah talking to Madame Blavatsky. We went into a room which I bad
occupied 88 a bedroom during the night-a big room, with 1\ large table ill the
middle of it. I sat down while we were talking, and she occupied another
chair at a considerable distance from me. I said, 'Why 011 earth have I
not had a letter in answer to mine l' She replied, 'Perhaps he will send it
to you. Try to exercise your will-power; try to appeal to him. Ask him
to lend it to you.I I retorted, ' No, I will wait his time ; he will send 800ner
001' later, no doubt.' At that moment a packet fell beford me on the table.
It W88 a large envelope containing at It!88t 30 pages of manuscript--hea\'Y
draft paper. The packet only came into view a few feet-two perhapa-
above the table, though I do not attach much importance to the precise
distance, 88 in a case of that sort the eye cannot be certain to 1\ foot. The
room W88 brilliantly light, this being in the morning.
MR. GL"1UiBY: Did Madame Blavataky know that you bad written
a letter and were expecting an answer, before this conversation with her I
MR. SINNETI' : Certainly ; but the point to which I attach importance in
this case is that the thing happened in broad daylight in a room which I had
myself occupied the previous night, and which I had been in and out of
during the whole of the morning. Everything occurred fully before my eyel.
It is impoaaible that Madame Blavatsky could have throWn the letter with
)ler hand. All the circumstances are incompatible with that. I W88 not
writing at the time, but talking to her, 80 that the idea that abe could ha,-e
thrown the letter islimply preposterous. (See" The Occult World," p. 120.)
It might be suggested that the remarks made by Madame Blava.tsky
wel"e calculated to render this phenomenon more striking than it
actually was if Mr. Sinnett could have been prevailed upon to " exercise
his will power," and it is to be inferred from Mr. Sinnett's accounts that
he made no examination whatever of the ceiling either from the room
below or from the garret above. According to M. Coulomb the packet had
been arranged in the trap in the garret before the arrival of Mr. Sinnett
oOn the previous evening, but as Mr. Sinnett was late in arriving, the
phenomenon was deferred until the following morning. The room where
the letter fell has already been described (p. 254), and the incident needs
no further comment.
The third case was tha.t of a sealed envelope, a case which Mr.
Sinnett seems to have regarded as "quite complete," in his deposi-
tion to the Committee. (See "The Occult World," pp. 95-96.) This
envelope, which contained n. letter for the Brothers, and which
Mr. Sinnett, after gumming and sealing,had given to Madame Blavatsky,
was in Madame Blavatsky's possession for several hours, and when it was
returned to Mr. Sinnett, he found it "absolutely intact, its ,-ery complete
fastenings ha,-ing l"emained just as" he had arranged them. Cutting
Digitized by Google
On Plumomella cOlmected feitll Theoaopllu. 259
tl1e envelope open, Mr. Sinnett found inside, not only the lettel' it had
previously contained, but also another, from Koot Hoomi. ?tIr. Sinnett
showed nle the envelope. The fastenings were not by any means
what I should mIl complete; so far was this from being the case, that
owing to the length of the flap, which was only sealed at its lower
extremity, the letter might have been abstracted, and re-inserted with
other letters, without even steaming the envelope, or loosening the
adhesion of the gum by any other process; and if the gum had been
loosened, say by careful steaming, the abstraction and re-insertion would
have been superlatively easy.
f'The last case given by Mr. Sinnett in his deposition to the Com-
mittee, and emphasised by him as a "phenomenal test," is the
alleged instantaneous transportation of a. piece of plaster ploqu.e
from Bombay to Allahabad. ("The Occult World," pp. 126-131.) The
important facts are briefly these. Colonel Olcott, accompanied by Mr.
Bhavani Rao (now Inspector of the N.W. Theosophical branches), was
on his way from Bombay to Calcutta, and was staying with Mr. Sinnett
at Allahabad on the route. One evening, on his return home, ~fr.
Sinnett found, in one of several telegram envelopes awa.iting him, a note
from Mahatma M., telling him to search in his writing-room for "0.
fragment of a plaster bas-relief that M. had just transported instan-
taneously from Bombay." Mr. Sinnett found the fragment in the
drawer of his writing-table. A document signed at Bombay shows that
somewhere about the same time as Mr. Sinnett got this note a loud
noise, as of something falling and breaking, was heard by several
persons as they sat in the verandah adjoining Madame Blavatsky's
writing-room. A search was immediately made in this l'OOm, which
proved to be empty, but a certain plaster mould was found lying in
pieces on the floor. On fitting the pieces together, it was found that
one fragment was missing. Shortly afterwards Madame Blavatsky
went into her other room and shut the door. After a minute's interva.l,
she called Mr. Tookaram Tatyo. and showed him a paper containing the
handwriting of "Mahatma M.," which informed them that the
missing piece had been taken to Allahabad. The remaining pieces
were sent a few days later to Mr. Sinnett, and he found that his piece
"fitted in perfectly." Of course, the weak point of the case is that
there is no proof whatever that the piece of plastel' received by l\fr.
Sinnett was in Bombay when the peculiar breakage OCCUl-red, for it
appears from the statement of the witnesses at BombllY (shown to us
by Mr.Sinnett, but not printed complete in "The Occult World ") that
the only evidence for the previously unbroken condition of the plaster
mould is that "Madame Blavatsky on inquiry ascertained ['1 from the
servants that 0.11 the furniture had been cleaned and dusted two clays
before, and the port-mit was intact then."
Digitized by Google
260 Mr. Hodgso-n's Rtpol't
What at'rangements would be necessary for the phenomenon if it was
11. trick? 1\I8.(1ameBlavatsky,we maysuppose,begins by breaking offa corner
of the plaster mould,and in so doing breaks thE' mould into several pieces.
After some difficulties, M. Ooulomb fits tht> pieces together-all but
one-and keeps them in place by a strip of cardboard frame fastened in
such 1\ manner that it can be jerked away by a string pulled from out-
side the room where the mould was suspended. The cardboard strip
containing the mould is arranged on the nail. As M. Ooulomb is going
with Madame Ooulomb to Poon&., he instructs Babula how to pull the
string.* The fragment of plaster withheld is given (or sent) to some
confederate to be placed in Mr. Sinnett's drawer, together with a note
ill the handwl'iting of " Mahatma M.," which is to be placed, if possible,
in some "closed" envelope at Mr. Sinnett's house; an hour is agreed
upon, say 7 p.m., March 11th, Bombay time, and at the appointed
hour, Babula pulls the string,the plaster falls with a crash, and witnesses
are there to hear the noise and fit the fragments together. Madame
Blavatsky enters her inner room alone and provides a Mahatma note.
:Meanwhile, the confederate has succeeded in inserting the note in "
telegram en"elope (possibly by careful manipulation of the eyelets which
are used to fasten telegram envelopes in India; possibly by substituting
eyelets S~ihtly larger, so as to cover any flaws made in the paper of the
envelo~ .
To t 1 same confederate may have been confided the two Koot
Hoomi notes received by Mr. Sinnett while Mr. Bhavani Rao was at
Allahaba.cl. There is most assuredly nothing in those portions of the
first of these which Mr. Sinnett quotes (" Occult World," p. 130)
which might not have been written beforehand, and the second might
well, so fat· as appears from Mr. Sinnett's acCOWlt of its contents, have
been prepared in anticipation of Mr. Sinnett's suggestioIlll. It simply
said, Mt·. Sinnett tells us, "that what I proposed was impossible, and
that he [Koot Hoomi] would write more fully through Bonlbay."t This
• 1.1. Coulomb declares that the arrangements were as here described.
t From a contemporary account of the occurrence sent by Mr. Sinnett to
:Mr. Hume, on llarch 14th, and from the copy of "contemporary letter written
I.)" Colonel Olcott to Madame Blavatsky on March 12th, it would appear that on
March 11th Mr. Sinnett put a note addressed to MaAatma M. into his drawer,
from which on l.larch 12th it bad disappeared. But there is no mention of any
note to Koot Hoomi except the one given to Mr. Bha"ani Rao on the 13th, and
it i8 intpIied in a copy of a letter from Mr. Bhavani Rao to Mr. Damodar on
March l..t1I, that this was the first letter which he had received for" trans-
D\i~ion .. to a "Brother." Is it possible that there is a nustake in "The Occult
World," and that by the first note to Koot Hoomi is really meant the note to
M. put into the drawer! The documents which I have mentioned point clearly
to this conclusion. '''nat see1Rs to have happened during Mr. Bha"ani Roo's
"isit is that llr. Sinnett 'wrote a note to Mallatma M. on Marcb 11th, and not
Digitized by Google
01' Pkenome"fI conllected Icith TkeosopllY. 261
is curiously like the en cas which was provided by Madame Bln.vatsky
for General Morgan in connection with the Adyar Saucer phenomenon,
and which, as General Morgan did not ask any questions, remll.ined in
possession of tha Coulombs (stle p. 213). If it be objected to my
explanation of these Allahabad phenomena that the only possible con-
federate was Mr. Bhavani Ra.o himself, I must reply that I cannot
regard this objection as an important one. I have already shown
grounds for believing that Madame Blavatsky has obtained sufficient
influence over two educated young natives to induce them to join her
in tricks, and from what I know of Mr. Bhava.ni Rao, or, as he is more
generally called, Bhavani Shankar, whose acquaintance I made while I
was in India., I can find no improbability in the supposition of his being
a. third. I have given in Appendix IX., and in Part II., p. 29i, what
I regard as instances of deliberate misrepresentation on his part.
I pass now to the remaining phenomena mentioned by Mr. Sinnett
in "The Occult World." We may first take the "raps" and the "astral
bells," which Mr. Sinnett seems to regard as constituting important
test phenomena. I may here quote a passage from "The Occult
World," p. 35:-
"With such a mighty problem at stake as the trustworthineBB of
the fundamental theories of modern physical science, it is impossible
only dill lIe get no reply whatever at the time to this note, 1mt it lel1 to no
eommunieation of any sort at the time from MaAatma M.; he received, however,
a. K. H. communication. on March 12th, and on March 13th addreBSed a letter to
Koot Hoomi in which he suggested that certain otherthings should be done, and
which he gave to Mr. Bhavani Rao to be "transmitted." On March 14th, he
received from Mr. Bhavani Rao a K.H. communication which merely said,
"impoBBible; no power; will write through Bombay." The lateRt fonn of this
incident as published by Mr. Sinnett occurs in the Appendix to the fourth edition
of "The Occult World," p.I55, where, referring to Mr. Bha,'ani Rao, he writes:
.. During the visit I speak of, he was enabled to pass a letter of mine to the
Master, to receive back his reply, to get off a second note of mine, and to receive
back a little note of a few words in reply again." I find it imposl'ible to reconcile
this account with the documents which I have mentioned, and it appears also to
differ slightly from the account which Mr. Sinnett gives on p. 130, from which I
infer that the note which he says he wrote to Koot Hoomi and gave to Mr.
Bhavani Rao on March IIth, was not all8'Wered by the Koot Hoomi note presented
by Mr. Bhavani Rao on March 12th. If I anI right in this inference I may
venture to make another, and that is that Mr. Sinnett was himself dissatisfied
at not receiving, in Koot Hoomi's communication of March 12th, a reply to hiB
letter of March lith, and that when he wrote the words that he did, after all,
exchl\Jlge letters with Koot Hoomi, it was with the feeling that his dissatisfac-
tion bad been partly if not altogether remo,'ed by the final Koot Hoomi note.
Does Mr. Sinnett think that this final note referred so specially to his own
suggestions that it could not have been prepared before his own letter was
,,'ritten! In this ease it would be interesting to know the exaet words of
both documents, and to examine the handwriting of the Koot Hoollli reply.
Digitized by Google
262 MI'. Hodgson's Rt'port
to proceed by any other but scientific modes of investigation. In any
experimenta I have tried I have always been careful to exclude, not
merely the probability, but the poBBibility of trickery; and where it has
been impoBBible to secure the proper conditions, I have not allowed the
resulta of the experimenta to enter into the sum total of my conclusions."
That Mr. Sinnett looks upon the cases we have just considered in
detail as instances of the passage of matter through matter or of its pre-
precipitation or reintegration, forces me to the opinion that his modes
of investigation have not been what I should call "scientific," and that
the same lack of due caution probably characterised his observation of
test-conditions in those instances which I have not been able to investi-
gate personally, as in those instances where I have had the opportunity
of examining the conditions applied. Thus, for example, I have not taken
part in forming a pile of hands such as Mr. Sinnett describes on p. 33,
but I cannot attribute any importance to his confident statement
concerning this and similar incident&, now that I have examined some
of the posaibilities in other cases about which he speaks with equal, if
not greater, confidence. The raps occurring when Madame Blavatsky
places her hands upon the patient's head, I have, however, experienced,
-though, as }Iadame Blavatsky sat behind me and placed ~her hands
upon the back of my head, I was unable to watch her fingers.
She had not informed me what she intended doing, and I conjectured
that she was attempting to "mesmerise" me; the so-called "shocks"
which I felt impressed me simply as movements of impatience on
the part of Madame Blavatsky. My attention being then drawn to them
as "phenomena," they were repeated, but I found them not at all like
the" shocks" experienced when taking offsparks from the conductor of
an electrical machine, as Mr. Sinnett describes them. The sharp thrilling
or tingling feeling was quite absent. Unfortunately, I am unable to
gently crack any of the joints of my fingers, I can but clumsily and
undisguisedly crack one of the joints of my thumbs, yet I find that the
quality of the feeling produced when I thus crack my thumb-joint against
my head exactly resembles that which I perceived under the supple
handsofMadameBlavatsky. Theexplanationwhicha.ccountssatisfa.ctorily
for my own experience I do not pretend to offer as an assured explana.
tion of the experiments made by Mr. Sinnett, though I do not by any
means feel certain that it may not be sufficient. It is true that Mr.
Sinnett regards the hypothesis as "idiotic" ("Occult World,"p. 33) ; but
then he regarded the suggestion that the letter he described as
"materialised, or reintegrated in the air," was an outcome of any con-
cealed apparatus, as "grotesquely absurd" (p. 120), notwithstanding
tbe facts that tbe phenomenon occurred at the headquarters of the
Tbeosophical Society, tbat tbe ceiling of tbe room abounded with
interstices, and that the garret above might have heen crammed up to
Digitized pyGoogle
Oil Phenomena connected fritll Theosophy_ 263
the tiled roof with all sorts of conjuring devices for aught he knew t()
the contrary. Mr. Sinnett treats with scorn the supposition that
Madame Blavatsky could have produced either the II raps" or the
II astral bells" by means of any machine concealed about her pe~on ;
but I cannot help thinking that the la.tter sounds at least might
haye been produced in this way. Madame Coulomb asserts that they
were actually so produced, by the use of a small musical-box,
constructed on the same principle as the machine employt'd in con-
nection with the trick known under tbe name II Is your watch It
repeater?" and she produced garments which she asserted had belonged
to Madame Blavatsky, Itnd showed me stains resembling iron-mould on
the right side, slightly above the waist, wl1ich she affirmed had been
caused by contact with the metal of the machine. She declares als()
that the machine was sometimes carried by Babula, on the roof or
in the various rooms of the house or outside, and when used by Madame
Blavatsky herself was worked by a slight pressure of the arm agttinst the
side, which would have been imperceptible to the persons present. I
think the II astral bells" may be thus accounted for, and I must remind
the reader of an important consideration which Mr. Sinnett seems ro
have overlooked-namely, the great uncertainty in all localisation of
sounds of which the cause and mode of production are unknown,especially
pure tones such as he describes the "astral bell " sound to be, and the
great ease of inducing by trifling indications the adoption of an altogether
erroneous opinion concerning the position where the sonorous disturbance
originates. Further, we may suppose, without any extravagance of
hypothesis, that Madame Blavatsky may possess more than one of these
machines alluded to, so that the sounds may be heard in different
places at the same time. Yet the possibility that if Madame Blavatsky
had one such machine she might haye had two does not seem to have
occurred to Mr. Sinnett, if I may judge from his argument on p. 41.
II Mltnaged a little better, the occurrence now to be dealt with
would haye been a beautiful test" ("Occult World," p. 43); for It certain
class or'readers it is told II not as a proof but as an incident," and it
is worth a brief consideration from this point of view. Mrs. Sinnett
II went one afternoon with Madame Blavatsky to the top of 0. neigh-
bouring hill. They were only accompanied by one other friend." While
there Madame Blo.vatsky asked Mrs. Sinnett "what was her heart's
desire." As Mr. Sinnett's correspondence with" Koot Hoomi" appears.
to have begun about this time,* it is probable that much interest was
excited by the idea of receiving communications from the" Adepts,"
and it cannot, therefore, be regarded as at all unlikely that Mrs. Sinnett
• Whether he had received his first Koot Hoomi not~ is not manifest j h&
had certainly not received his second.
26! J.1I,.. Hodg8on's Report
should ask as she did" for a note from one of the Brothers." ~Ioreover,
it does not appear that Madame Blavatsky guaranteed the fulfilment of
.Mrs. Sinnett's "heart's desire" until she knew what the desire was,
any more than she guaranteed the fulfilment of Mrs. Sinnett's wish
that the note should "come fluttering down into her lap," and this
last wish was not granted. "Some conversation ensued as to whether
this would be the best way to get it, and ultimately it was decided
that she should find it in a certain tree." Mr. Sinnett does not
lay any stress upon the identity of the paper folded up by Madame
Hlavatsky with the paper of the pink note received by Mrs. Sinnett,
nor will any person experienced in strawberry hunts, or familiar witb
leafy trees, be in the least degree surprised that Mrs. Sinnett did not at
once perceive the" little pink note" upon the" twig immediately before
iler face." The note was" stuck on to the stalk of a leaf that had
heen quite freshly torn off, for the stalk was still green and moist-not
withered as it would have been if the leaf had been tom off for any
length of time." "Length of twe " is vague.
The incident ought to be instructive. Colonel Olcott was the friend
who accompanied Mrs. Sinnett and l\Iadame Blavatsky to the top of
the hill, where, according to his diary, they had seen on the previous
<lay, "through a field-glass, a man in white making signals" to them.
The" man in white" may account for the expedition to the hill; he may
also account for the pin~ note in the tree. Weare unlikely to discover
how many of Madame Blavatsky's pre-arrangements were never carried
out, owing to the complete failure of her anticipations; but the case
before us clearly illustrates a partial failure. If Mrs. Sinnett had
made some other answer than the one she actually made to the question,
put "in a joking way" by Madame Blavatsky, we should probably
have never heard of the conversation or the expedition at all. l!J-.
Sinnett has not told us definitely whether it was Madame Blavatsky
or Colonel Olcott (whose name is not mentioned by Mr. Sumett at all
in connection with the incident) who objected to MI·S. Sinnett's request
that the letter should" come fluttering down into her lap," nor has he
told us what the exact objection was.* It is implied, however, that
:Madame Blavatsky pointed out the tree supposed to be chosen by the
41 Brother." Why did she first point out the wrong tree 1 Perhaps she
:l.llticipated that Mrs. Sinnett might, for her own satisfaction, suggest
* I have seen a newspaper account in which it was sai(l that Madame
Blavatsky expressed the" Adept's II opinion that if the note were to drop into
Mrs. Sinnett's lap, it might be urged afterwards that Madame Blavatsky had
Dlanaged the phenomenon by sleight of hand, and that therefore he (the Adept)
proposed putting the note into a certain tree. This objection was not made in
cases where the witnesses happened to be sitting under cre\'iced beams or
intersticed ceilings.
Digitized by Goo
Oil PkenomellQ cOllnected witl, TI,eosophy. 265
the other tree; or perhaps there may have been a mistake between her-
self and the "man in white." The note said, "I have been asked
to leave a note here for you, what can I do for you 1" The words are
not remarkably relevant; according to the account given by Mr. Sinnett,
the " Brother" had chosen the spot himself.
We "come now to the incidents of a very remarkable day," ("Occult
World," pp. 44-59), that of the Simla picnic, October3rd,1880-the day
of the cup and saucer, diploma, bottle of water, and Mrs. Hume's
brooch. The account given by Colonel Olcott, dated October 4th, 1880,
and sent round at the time as a circular to the Fellows of the Theosophi-
cal Society, throws a remarkable light upon Mr. Sinnett's narrative.
Thus, whereas from Mr. Sinnett's description of ~e events, it would
seem that Madame Blavatsky had no share in the choice of the spot
chosen for luncheon, almost the reverse of this appears from the
opening sentences of Colonel Olcott's account :-
..Grea.tday yesterday for Madame's phenomena. In the morning she,with
Mr. and Mrs. l:Iinnett, Major --, Mr. S. M., Mrs. R., and myself went on
a picnic. Although ahe had never been at Simla before, she directed us where
to go, describing a certain small mill which the Sinnetts, Major -- and
even the jalllpanis (palki-wallMa) affirmed, did not exist. She also
mentioned a small Tibetan temple as being near it. We f'eached the .pot Bhe
had described and /«Iund the miU at about 10 a.m. ; and sat in the shade and
had the servants sp~ a collation."
I received from Colonel Olcott, not only a copy of the circular from
which the above extract is taken, but a transcript from his diary-
account, and also further oral explanations. From these last it
would nppear that Madame Blavatsky and X. were in front of the
others, and that Madame Blavatsky described the road which they should
take; that it was Madame Blavatsky and X. who together chose pro.
visionally the spot for the picnic encampment; and that Mr. Sinnett
and X. then walked on fllrther to see if a better spot could be chosen,
and decided to remain at the place where the halt had already been
made.
As this place appears in Mr. Sinnett's account as a place they "were
not likely to go to" (p. 49) we cannot attach much weight to his opinion
that the cup and saucer were of a kind they" were not likely to take."
Probably Mada.me Blavatsky's native servant Babula, an active
young fellow, who, I am assured 011 good authority, had formerly
been in the service of a French conjurer, could throw even more light
upon the day's proceedings than Colonel Olcott's account. The previous
abstraction of the cup and saucer, their burial in the early morning, the
description of the spot to Madame Blavatsky, the choice of the
particular service takcn, are deeds which lie easily within the accomplish-
ment of Babula's powers. Concerning a later period of the day, when
T
Digitized by Google
266 MI'. llodgsol,'s Report
the party had shifted their quarters to another part of the wood, Mr.
Sinnett writes, on p. 51: "X. Rnd one of the other gentlemen had
wandered ow." From Colonel Olcott's accounts it appears that they had
gone back to the previous' encampment in order t() ascertain if there
were any traces of a tunnel by which the cup and saucer might have
been previously buried in an ordinary way, and that when they returned
they expressed their conviction that the cup and saucer might have
been so buried, but that the ground about the spot had been so disturbed
by the digging and throwing of earth, that evidence of such a tunnel
could not be found. Before the party returned from the picnic it. was
known that three of them, viz., Mrs. R., Mr. S. M., and Major - -
(mentioned by Mr. Sinnett as X.), were dissatisfied with the
" phenomenon"; the throe who came away believing, were Mr. and
Mrs. Sinnett and Colonel Olcott,-all of wliom seem to have previously
fully attained the conviction of Madame Blavatsky's good faith. Shortly
afterwards Major Henderson wrote a letter to the Ti'llUJ8 of India, in
which he stated: "On the day in question, 1 declared the saucer to be
an incomplete and unsatisfactory manifestation, as not fulfilling proper
test conditions. My reasonable doubt was construed as a personal
insult, and I soon discovered that a sceptical frame of mind in the
inquirer is not favourable to the manifestation of the marvels of
Theosophy . . . . I am not a Theosophist nor a believer in the
phenomena., which I entirely discredit, nor have .1 any intention of
furthering the objects of the Society in any way."
The concealment of the diploma and the management of the bottle
of water would have been still easier tasks for Babula than the burying
of the cup and saucer in the rooted bank. Against Mr. Sinnett's a.ccoflnt
of the finding of the diploma by X., I have to set Colonel Olcott's state-
ment that the particular shrub where the diploma was found was
pointed out to X. by Madame Blavatsky, this statement being made in
connection with the passage in Colonel Olcott's diary: "She points to
1\ bit of ground, and tells him to search there. He finds his diploma
. . . under a low cedar-tree." In continuation Colonel Olcott
writes: "Later, we are out of water, and she fills a bottle with pure
water by-putting the bottle up her sleeve." In connection with this
incident Mr. Sinnett has much to suggest -about the abnormal
stupidity of a certain coolie who had been sent with empty bottles to a
brewery with a pencil note asking for water, and who, finding no
European at the brewery to receive the note, had brought back the
" empty" bottles. It was-apparently-one of these "empty" bottles
thus brought hack that Madame Blavatsky took for her experiment.
Who was this abnormally stupid coolie t Surely not Madame
Rlavatsky's personal servant Babula t It is difficult to suppose that
Mr. Sinnett would speak of (Babula as a coolie, and he could hardly
Digitized by Google
0" Phel/omella conllected with Theosol,hg. 267
make a greater mistake than to attribute abnormal stupidity to Babula
rather than ~bnormal cleverness. And yet Babula was in some way
concerned. Colonel Olcott wrote, after saying that wanting some tea
they found they were out of water :-
" Servants were sent in various directions but could get none. While
Babula was'oft'on a second search Madame quietly went to the lunch-baskots,
took an empty wat.er-bottle, put it in the loose sleeve of her gown, and came
straight to where we were sittillg on the grass. The bottle tOOIl full Qf ckarut
and IlOftellt water, of which we all partook."
Granted that Babula was present, the fact that all the bottles became
empty, and that afterwards one of them became full, may be easily
accounted for without the necessity of supposing that there was anything I
more substantial than a smile in Madame Blavatsky's sleeve. It is
curious how much Babula has been kept in the background of Mr.
Sinnett's account j carelessly, no doubt, and not carefully; but then, if
carelessly, Mr. Sinnett nlust be charged with a grievous lack of ordinary
perspicacity.
Finally, came the "celebrated brooch incident." (" Occult 'World,"
pp. 54-59.) Of this it will suffice to say that the broocl, formed one of
several articles of jewellery which Mrs. Hume had given to 0. person
who had again parted with them to another who had "nllowec:l
them to pass out of their· posse.ssion." It is an admitted fact
that many of these articles, parted with at the same time lIS the
brooch, did nctually pass through Colonel Olcott's bands very
I«>On afterwards. Colonel Olcott does not remember seeing the brooch j
but that Madame Blavatsky may at that time have had an opportunity,
which she seized, of obtaining possession of it, is obviouslyhighlyprobable,
though there is no absolute proof of this. It is at any rate certain that
she entrusted a brooch, which needed some slight repair, to Mr. Hormusji
S. Seervai, of Bombay, who shortly afterwards returned it to Madame
Blavatsky. When the "brooch incident" occurred later, and the
account of it was published containing a description of tbe brooch,
Mr. Hormusji found that the description exactly fitted the brooch which
hlid been entrusted to him for repair by Madame Blavatsky. For these
facts I rely' chiefly on statements made to me personally by Mr.
Plume and Mr. Hormusji, though, indeed, the first links of the chain had
been previously published in various forms, and were ne,-er challenged,
and I may add tha.t Mr. Hormusji's testimony is confirmed by that of
two other witnesses who remember his immediate recognition of the
description given in the account of the " brooch incident" as that of the
brooch Madame Blavatsky had given him to be repaired. The above
outline is, I think, specific enough to lead the reader to a right conclu-
sion. The fact that Mrs. Hume chose the lost brooch as the object to
T 2
Digitized by Google
268 MI'. Hodgson's Report
be brought to her by the "Brother," Mr. Hume is inclined to explain
as a case of thought-transference to Mrs. Hume from MadalQe Blavatsky,
who was probably willing intensely that Mrs. Humeshould think ofthe
brooch. I do not dispute this opinion, though I cannot regard the
case as a proven instance of telepathy; Madame Blavatsky may hav!'"
had enough knowledge of the history of the brooch and en~ugh prac-
tical acquaintance with the laws of association, to make it l',88y for
her to suggest that family relic to the thoughts of Mrs. Hume, without
exciting the suspicion of the persons present, who, by Mr. Sinnett's
account, seem to have "been as far as possible from attempting to
realise what a special chain of reminiscence may have been quickened
into vivid life by Madame Blavatsky's words.
It must not be forgotten, in dealing with these cases, that we do not
know how many "phenomenal tests" may have been arranged by
Madame Blavatsky which did not succeed. She may have failed in
leading to the needful topic of conversation; she may have been asked
for objects sho had not obtained, or could not obtain, and so refused on
one pretext or another to comply with some request made; I!he may
have offered an answer to a letter neither she nor any confederate was
able to read, and failed in her Mahatma-reply to make any reference
whatever to the specific question asked in the undecipherable document;
she may have been requested to produce phenomena in a way dift'erent
from that already prepared; she may not have provided for contingen-
cies such as the absence of the persons required for the experiment, and
so on. There are samples of these several kinds of failures, which would,
I presume, be regarded by Mr. Sinnett merely as interesting "incidents."
A notable incident of this kind may be given as it is closely related to the
next group of "proofs" to which we pass in Mr. Sinnett's "Occult
World." Itappears that Madame Blavatsky, for the benefit of Oaptain
Maitland, had professed to send a cigarette tied up with her hair to a
place under the hom of the unicorn on the coat of arms under the statue
of the Prince of Wales, opposite Watson's Hotel in Bombay. Captain
Maitland telegraphed (from Simla) to Mr. Grant in Bombay, asking him
to look immediately for the cigarette. Mr. Grant found no cigarette in
the place described. MadameCoulomb asserts that she was the person who
was to ha.ve put the cigarette there, but that she "never went near the
place." ("Some Account,"&c.,by Madame Coulomb,pp.16-18.) Hence the
failure,not mentioned byMr. Sinnett. TheBlavatsky-Coulomb documents
sufficiently discredit the cigarette phenomena., and it can be seen at once
that those quoted by Mr. Sinnett might have been arranged with
perfect ease by Madame Blavatsky. In the first case, that of Mrs.
Gordon, the .. place indicated" as the place where the cigarettft would
be found is not stated. In the two other instances given, the
cigarettes were f?und in places where they would probably remain un-
Digitized by Google
0/1 Phellomena cOllnected with Theo8oph!l. 269
discovered for some tinle, unless particular search for them were made,
and Madame Blavatsky-or, by her instructions, Babula-might have
deposited them there pre"iously. Mr. Sinnett says that "for }>fIrsollS who
have not actually seen Madame Blavatsky do one of her cigarette feats it
lDay be useless to point out that she does not do them as a conjurer
would," and cp.rtainly it is difficult for such persons t~ understand
the profound conviction which }Ir. Sinnett displays (" Occult 'Vorld,"
p. 63) concerning the identity of the comer of the paper torn off with
the comer given to the percipient, in the face of such sleight-of-hand
performances as he himself describes :-
"You take two pieces of paper, and tear oft' a comer of both together, so
that the jags of both are the same. You make a cigarette with one piece,
and put it in the place where you mean to have it ultimately found. You
then hold the other piece underneath the one you tear in presence of the
spectator, slip in one of the already torn comers into his hand instead of
that he sees you tear, make your cigarette with the other part of tho original
piece, dispose of that anyhow you please, and allow the prepared cigarette to
be found. Other variations of the system may be readily imagined."
Mr. Sinnett's naive remark that the certainty of the spectator would
lie enhanced by the pencil-marks drawn upon the cigarette paper before
his eyes, compels me to suppose that his experience in conjuring must be
very limited. For it appears that the pencil-marks were chosen and
drawn by Madame Blavatsky herself; she declined to let Captain Mait-
land "mark or tear the papers"; otherwise there might have been no
apparent similarity between the paper marked and that which had
already been deftly rolled by Madame Blavatsky's fingers, and was
lying snugly on a shelf inside the piano, or in the covered cup on the
bracket.
Mr. Sinnett's confidence that the cigarette feats are not conjuring
performances will appear still more singular to persons who have
practised palming, as I have myself done, and who read the following
sentences from the accounts given on p. 62 :-
"The cigarettes being finished,Madame Blavatekystood up,and took them
between her hands, which sho rubbed together. After about 20 or
30 seconds, tho grating noise of the pa.per, a.t first distinctly audible,
ceased."
"With the remainder of the papershe prepared a cigarette ill the ordinary
manner, and in a few momenta caused this cigarette to disappear from her
handa."
In short, if Madame Blavatsky does not do ber cigarette feats as a
conjurer would, the descriptions quoted by llr. Sinnett, pp. 60-63, must
.be fundamentally erroneous.
The next case for our consideration is the Pillow Incident. (" Occult
Digitized by Google
270 Mr. Hoag8oll'.s Report
"World," pp. 75-79..) Mr. Sinnett's" subjective impressions" of the
previous night appear to be in close relation with the incident, if not
to form part of it; but as thEly are not exactly described, I am unable,
of course, to deal with them. If they were neither hallucination nor
extreme illusion suffered by Mr. Sinnett, they may have been due to
~Iadame Blavatsky's boldness and cleverness, in which case the cushion
may have been manipulated before Mr. Sinnett spoke of his impres-
sions that morning. And here again appears the invaluable Bahula,
who was probably the" Brother" who inserted the brooch and the note
provided by Madame Blavatsky, in the jampan cushion. Was it
a remarkable fact that this particular cushion was chosen 1
There may, indeed, have been a second object, and a note in
some adjoining tree in case a tree had beeu chosen, and there
may have been a third buried in the ground; though I think
it unlikely that Madame Blavatsky would have taken any
trouble to provide for these contingencit)s, even if there were other
objects which might have "hinged on" to Mr. Sinnett's subjective
impressions. Simply because such places as the ground and the tree
had been chosen before, they were not likely to be chosen again; it
was not so exceedingly improbable that the finnly..made " usual jampan
cushion" which Mrs. Sinnett might certainly be expected to take with
her should be selected.. Madame Blavatsky's intimate acquaintance
with Mr. Sinnett may haye enabled her .to anticipate with considerable
confidence that he would choose the cushion. Besides, if it should
unfortunately not be chosen, some cOIl\'ersation might ensue as to
whethel' the place fixed upon was the best, and ultimately it might he
decided that they should look for it ill olle of the cushions. If any
mistake were made about the cushion, Madame Blavatsky might again
get into communication with Koot Hoomi, and a..-,;certain that it was in
Mrs. Sinnett's cushion that the object was being placed, as in the case
of the " incident" discussed above, p. 264.
But ~h. Sinnett gaye a note to Madame Blamtsky, apparently just
before starting out, for Koot Hoomi. This note is said to have dis-
appeared when they were about half way to their destination, yet no
reference to this was made in the Koot Hoomi note found in the
cushion. Let us suppose, allowing the picnic-spot t~ be only half an
hour's:distance, that this in\'olved only a quarter of an hOUl"S intenal
betweell the disappearance of the note and the choice of the cushion,
followed by the preparation of the" currents." 'Vhat happened during
this qual-ter of an hour 1 .'Ve read in other places of in8tantaneous
transportations of solid objects, instantaneous precipitations of answer"
to questions, &c. I suppose this quarter of an hour would be accounted
for by the blundering of a Chela, the Chela being Madame Blavatsky.
It will hardly be pleaded that" tJle currents fOl' the production of the
Digitized by Goo
On Phellomena connectedlrit/~ TheolJophy. 271
pillow dak" had been set ready some time before the pillow had been
chosen, unless it is intended to take refuge in the surrejoinder that Koot
Hoomi knew that Mr. Sinnett would be certain to choose the pillow,
and could, therefore, pre-arrange the "currents," but that Koot Hoomi
did not know, when he thus pre-arranged the currents, what Mr.
Sinnett had written, 01' even that Mr. Sinnett had written a letter at
all. All this ignorance on the part of Koot Hoomi, notwithstandipg
the fact that MI'. Sinnett's letter was in answer to a. Koot Hoomi note,
and tha.t Koot Hoomi was supposed to be busy with phenomena for
Mr. Silmett's behoof! Mr. Sinnett's faith, however, does not seem to
have been affecteci by this little hiatus of time, though it seems to have
been stimulated by the underlining of a "k" in the Koot Hoomi
cushion note, as on the previous evening" Madame Blavatsky had been
saying that Koot Hoomi's spelling of 'Skepticism' with a 'k' was
not an Americanism in his case, but due to a philological whim of his."
(This "philological whim" is not always remembered; I have myself
seen " sceptic" spelt with a " c" in a Koot Hoomi document.) That
the note found in the cushion bore reference throughout to the con-
,'ersation (we will suppose, not led up to) of the previous evening, but
contained not the slightest allusion to Mr. Sinnett's note of the follow-
ing morning, leads me to the inference that the said Koot Hoomi note
was inserted in the cushion in the interval-and, as I have stated,
by Babula.
The Jhelum telegram case might be explained in a variety of ways,
but Mr. Sinnett has not given us the detail necessary to enable us to
fonn any conclusion. The incident was briefly as follows. (" Occult
World," pp. 80-83). Mr. Sinnett, before leaving Simla for Allahabad,
wrote a letter to Koot Hoomi which he sent to Madame Blavatsky,
who was at Amritsur. This letter was written on October 24th,
1880. The envelope of this letter was returned to Mr. Sinnett by
Madame Blavatsky, and bore, as I understand, the afternoon postmark
of October 27th. On October 27th, Mr. Sinnett, then at Allahabad,
l'eceived a teiegl'am from Jhelum sent on October 27th, This telegram
contained a specific reply to his letter, Afterwards Mr. Sinnett was
requested, through :Madame Blavatsky, to see the original* of the Jhelum
• I may here mention a curious document which was unintentionally lent to
me for several days by Mr. Damodar. I had with 80me difficulty obtained
se\'eral 8pecimens of Mahatma writing, and in au envelope enclosinll: some of
these I afterwards found a 8lip of paper, which had not-as I concluded when
later I discovered that it WaH not enumerated among those lent to me-
been observed in the envelope when Mr. Damodar gave me permission to
take the specimens away. This document was a single amall fragment of
thin paper, undated and unsigned. On one side of it were written the following
words in red ink, and the writing resembles that attributed to l\lahatma M. :
0"
272 MI'. Hodg801J'8 Report
telegram. This he succeeded in doing, and found the writing to be that
of Koot Hoomi.
Let us suppose that Madame Blavatsky did not forge the "evidential"
pustmark; that post-office peons were none of them bribed to mark* or
deliver a letter otherwise than in due course; that the letter enclosed by
Mr.Sinnett in the envelope was actually despatched in that envelope; that
previous to its despatch the contents were known to no one but Mr.
Sinnett, and that no one acquired any knowledge of the contents before
the letter reached Madame Blavatsky's hands. Under these circum-
stances it would still have been possible for Madame Blavatsky to have
read the letter, and to have telegraphed the right reply to a confederate
in Jhelum, who might then have penned or pencilled the telegram to Mr.
Sinnett in sufficiently close imitation of the Koot Hoomi handwriting
ordinarily produced by Madame Blavatsky, to have deceived Mr. Sinnett.
I have made all the above suppositions for the purpose of drawing the
reader's notice to the fact that, presuming that theJhelum telegram docu-
ment, afterwards inspected by Mr. Sinnett, was actually the document
handed in as the message to be despatched to him, we should require
some further evidence of the identity of its handwriting with that of Mr.
Sinnett's Koot Hoomi documents generally, than that furnished by the
examination of Mr. Sinnett himself, who appears not to have observed
the numerous traces of Madame Blavatsky's handiwork in the earliest
Koot Hoomi letters he received.
I think it probable, however, that the document in question was,
as a matter of fact, written by Madame Blavatsky herself, and that Mr.
Sinnett's letter reached her, either in the envelope in which he enclosed
it, or in Rnot/IM, before the 27th. It surprised me considerably to find
that Amritsur was only 21 hourst from Simla, and Jhelum only 8 hours
from Amritsur. Madame Blavatsky is said to have received Mr.
Sinnett's envelope not earlier than the afternoon of October 27th,so that,
if the Amritsur postmark was bond foU, it probably left Simla. on
October 26th. Mr. Sinnett's letter was written on October 24th. This
la.rge hiatus of time is not alluded to in Mr. Sinnett's account, which
is remarkable for the scantiness of its detail concerning the most impor-
.. Send this by copying telegram and original telegram to A.P.S. Charge to
my a.ccount and send bill. Let Deb study more carefully his part." Whether
this document had anything to do with the above incident I can of course only
conjecture. The relation between Gwala K. Deb and Mr. Babajee has been
,"ready considered (p. 247).
• While at Madras I was informed of a recent case where the defendant had
secured an elaborate misuse of the post'office stamps for the purpose of falsely
proving an alibi.
t Simla to Umballa, 94 miles-horse conveyance-12 hours. Umballa to
Amritsur, 155 miles-train-9 hours. Amritsur to Jhelum, 135 miles-train-
S hours.
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena connected 1ntl1 Theo8oph1/. 273
tant conditioning elements. He does not explicitly mention e-ither when
he wrote his letter (the date appears on p. 83 in the Koot Hoomi
quotation) or when or by whom the letter was posted. He does not
mention the Simla post--mark, nor does Ae make any suggestion, for the
benefit of the English reader, as to the distances between Simla,
Amritsur, and Jhelum. Yet Mr. Sinnett seems to have regarded this
fragmentary evidence as likely to appeal to other mind!! besides his own
("Occult 'Vorld," p. 80); no doubt it may do so if they take for
granted that the details neglected contribute to the malTellousness of
the phenomenon. .
With reference to the portraits drawn in Mr. Sinnett's house("Occult
World," pp. 137-139), it is not necessary to say any more, considering
the exiguity of Mr. Sinnett's account, than that Madame Blayatsky is
exceedingly skilful in the use of both pencil and brush. I have seen
specimens of her handiwork, not only in certain playing-cards, which
Colonel Olcott showed m~ach card being a clever, humorous sketch,
-but in drawings, precisely similar to that mentioned by Mr. Sinnett,
where the face on the white paper was defined by contrast with "cloudy
blue shading."*
On the whole, then, I think I am justified in saying that the
phenomena. relied upon by Mr. Sinnett in "The Occult 'Vorld" can be
accounted for much more satisfactorily than can the performances of
any ordinary professional conjurer by the uninitiated obsen'er, howevel'
acute; that the additional details which I have been enabled to furnish
in connection with some of the incidents Mr. Sinnett has recorded,
clearly show that he has not been in the habit of exercisingdue caution
for the exclusion of trickery; and that he has not proceeded in accordance
with those "scientific modes of investigation" which he explicitly
declares ("Occult World," p. 35) he regarded as necessary for the task
he attempted.
EVIDENCE OF ME. A. O. HUME
(Late Government Secretary of India).
As Mr. Hume took a prominent part in the early deyelopment of
the Theosophical Society in India, and even published two pamphlets
on the subject, "Hints on Esoteric Theosophy," Nos. 1 and 2, it
seems to me desirable to draw special attention to the considerable
change which has taken place in his opinion concerning the phenomena.
• Blue pencil is a favoured instrument at the Theosophical headquarters.
I poBII8888d a specially convenient form of a patent blue pencil, and having
handed this to Mr. Babajee for the purpose of enabling him to write a name
and address which he wished to give me, he remarked, 11.8 he regarded it with
8pontaneous admiration, .. Oh ! this would do well for --," the Koot Hoomi
flCriptures, thought I, but my spoken comment was dift'erent; :Mr. Babajee'8
head was bowed, his tongue was dumb, and the sentence was never completed.
Digitized by Google
274 MI'. Hodgsoll's Report
connected with Ma.da.me Blavatsky. I enjoyed, while in India, the
opportunity of having various long interviews with Mr. Hume, aud
ha.ve already referred to his conclusion (reached after a most careful
inquiry) in connection with the incident of the recovery of Mrs. Hume's
brooch, that Madame Blavatsky may very well have obtained the brooch
previously by ordinary methods. Long before the publication of the
Blavatsky-Coulomb letters in the Cl,ristian College Magazine, Mr.
Hume had discovered that some of Madame Blavatsky's phenomena
were fraudulent, and that some of the professed Mahatma writing was
the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky herself. Once or twice he had
seen notes on some philosophic question which had been made by Mr.
Subba Row (Va.kil of the High Court, Madras), 110 leading native
Theosophist. The substance of these notes appeared afterwards worked
up into a Mahatma document (received by either himself or ?tIl'.
Sinnett), and worsened in the working. I inquired of Mr. Subbl'
Row, the ablest native Theosophist I have met, whether he was
a.ware of the episodes which Mr. Humc had described. He replied
laconically, "It may be so." When the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters
were first published Mr. Hume expressed his opinion publicly tlJat
Madame Blavatsky was too clever to have thus committed herself;
latterly, however, and partly in consequence of the evidence
I was able to lay before him, he came to the conviction that
the letters in question were actually written by Madame Blavatsky.
Further, he had never placed the slightest credence in the Shrine-
phenomena., which he had always supposed to be fraudulent. I may
state also that his conclusions, reached independently of my own and
from different circumstances, concerning the untrustworthiness of
Messrs. Damodar, Baba.jee, and Babula., entirely corroborated those
to which I had been forced. Yet Mr. Hume was originally just as fully
committed to the genuineness of certain phenomena as Mr. Sinnett him-
self, as will be manifest from a perusal of his "Hints on Esoteric
Theosophy," from which some of the narratives quoted in our First
Report were taken. His present attitude is an admirable testimony not
only to his readiness to accept the truth at the cost of negating so
extensively his own past opinions, but also to the systematic pains be
has taken in sifting the antecedents of the apparently marvellous
phenomena which occurred in close connection with himself. For
example, he received a Koot Hoomi communication in a letter coming
from a person who had no connection with Theosophy. This may
have been the incident referred to by Mr. Sinnett (" Occult World;'
p. 21), as follows:-
" When this Society [the Simla branch of the Theosophical Society] WIlS
formed, many lette1'8 passed between Koot Hoomi and oU1'8elves, which were
tlot in every cue transmitted through MacilUlle Blav8tsky. In one case, for
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena coHnectecl uitl, Theosoph!l. 276
(,Dmple, 1\11'. Hume, who became President for the first year CJf the new
Society . • • got a note from Koot Hoomi inside a letter receivell
through the post from a person wholly unconnected with our occult pUI'·
suits, W]lO was writing to him in connection with BOrne municipal business."
, '
Mr. Hume has informed me that he himself received the letter,
which was large and peculiar in appearance, from the postman's hands.
A long time afterwards, when reinvestigating a number of supposed
phenomena (not published) which had occurred at- his house, he learnt
incidentally from one of his servants that just such a. letter had been
taken by Babula from the postman early one morning, and carried oft~
to Madame, and had been returned to the postman, when the postman
came by again, Babula, who said that it was not for Madame but for
'Mr. Hume. The servant had wondered at the time why Babula had
not taken the letter to Mr. Hume himself, and he said that htt
thought he remembered that Babula. had taken and returned
letters in the same way on other occasions. We suggested a somewhat
similar procedure on the part of Babula. in our First Report as an
explanation of instances analogous to that of Mr. Hume's. In varioUl>
cases, which it is unnecessary to reproduce in this Report, it will be
seen that Madame Blavatsky may have been enabled in a similar way
to tamper with the letters before they actua.lIy reached the addressees.
It may be instructive here to quote Mr. Hume's testimony to the fact
that peculiar envelopes and paper, like those generally used by Madame
Blava.tsky for the Mahatma communications, are procurable in the
neighbourhood of DaIjeeling, that they were not used for the earliest
Mahatma documents, which appeared before Madame Blavatsky had
visited Darjeeling, but were first brought into requisition for that
purpose at l\ time which coincided with her visit to tha.t place. Mr.
Hume's position at present is that" despite all the frauds perpetrated.
there have been genuine phenomena, and that, though of a low order.
Madame [Blavatsky] really had and has Occultists of considerable
though limited powers behind her; that K.. H. is a real entity, but by
no means the powerful a.nd godlike being he has been painted, and that
he has had some share, directly or indirectly-though what Mr. Hume
does not pretend to say.-in the production of the K. H. letters." The-
reader already knows that I cannot myself discover sufficient evidence
for the occurrence of any II occult phenomenon" whatever in connection
with the Theosophical Society.
I have thus far postponed the consideration of the handwriting
purporting to have been "precipitated." The specimens of such writing
which canle under my notice in India were of three kinds, and were
alleged to have emanated from :Mahatma Koot Hoomi, Mahatma M.,
and the C/lela, "Bhola. Deva. Sarma," respectively. I made a minute
Digitized by Google
276 Mt'. Hodg8on'8 Report
and prolonged examination of these and other manuscripts with a view
to determining by whose hand the supposed "precipitated" communica-
tiona were written. The conclusions I reached were such as fully to
<confirm the results of my investigations in other directions, and they
are generally and briefly as follow :-
That the one specimen of the Chela B. D. S. writing which I had
the opportunity of carefully examining was the handiwork of lIr.
Babajee D. Nath: that the several specimens of Mahatma M. (M. C.)
writing which I had the opportunity of carefully examining were the
handiwork of Madame Blavatsky: and that of the several specimens of
Mahatma Koot Hoomi (K. H.) writing which I had the opportunity of
<carefully examining, one was the handiwork of Mr. Damodar K.
Mava.la.nkar, the others were the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky.
Since my return to England I have been strengthened in this last
~onclusion by an examination of 0. large quantity of K. H. lISS.
forwarded to nle by Mr. Hume,* a series of K. H. documents entrusted
to us by Mr. Sinnett, and a K. H. document sent to us by Mr. Padshah
for comparison with other K. H. writings. The K. H. conlmunica-
tion belonging to Mr. Padshab is, in my opinion, the handiwork of
Mr. Damodar, and the K. H. documents sent by Mr. Hume and lIr.
Sinnett the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky. !tis probable, therefore,
that various K. H. communications received in India. during Madante
Blavatsky's absence in 1884 were written by Mr. Damodar. Many of
these were produced under circumstances which absolutely precluded
the possibility that Madame Blavatsky could have' written them,
but nnder which it would have been easy for Mr. Damodar to have
written them. My justification for the conclusions I have expressed
above concerning the authorship of the handwriting will be found in
Part II. of this Report, to which I now proceed.
PART II.
The chief questions in which we are aided by caligraphic evidence
concern the authorship of the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters and the
authorship of the Mahatma documents. I do not propose to go into
any detail in describing the similarities between Madame Blavatsky's
undoubted handwriting and the handwriting of the Blavatsky-Coulomb
• I have now in my hands numerous documents which are concerned with
the experiences of Mr. Hume and others in connection with Madame Blayatsky
and the Theosophical Society. These documents, including the K. H. )lSR.
aboye referred to, did not reach me till August, Rnli my examination of them,
particularly of the K. H. lISS., hL'! inyol\"ed a cODsiderable delay in the produc-
tion of this Report.
Digitized by Google
011 Pilenomenll connected ,fitlt TheoBO))li!l. 271
letters.* These letters, before publication in the Cll1vtian College
Magazine, were, as I havo laid, submitted by the editor to several
gentlemen with experience in handwriting, who were unequivocally
of opinion that they were written by Madame Blavatsky. The same
opinion was also expressed by Mr. J. D. B. Gribble, of Madras, ill
"A Report of an Examination into the Blavatsky Correspondence,
published in the Christian College MagazinlJ." But the most im-
polunt judgment on this point is that of the expert in handwriting.
Mr. F. G. Netherclift, who has no doubt whatever that the disputed
letters which were submitted to him were written by Madame
Blavatsky. His Report will be found on p. 381. Mr. Sims, of the
British Museum, is also of the same opinion.
Under these circumstances I need say little more than that I
examined the whole of these documents, and throughout I found thoSE!'
characteristics of Madame Blavatsky's handwriting which were
present in the document I used as my chief standard, viz., a lette.'
from Madame Blavatsky to Dr. Hartmann, written from Elberfeld ill
October, 1884.
I had other undoubted writings t of Madame Blavatsky in my
possession, which rendered me some assistance, but, as will appea."
presently, I was unable to regard these as altogether trustworthy.
Further, I found no peouliarity whatever in the Blavatsky-Coulomb
letters which is not present in Madame Blavatsky's undoubted hand-
·writing. There were, indeed, a few forms which are not found very
often in Madame Blavatsky's ordinary handwriting, and which are
found often in the Koot Hoomi writings j but this statement applies
just as much to Madame Blavatsky's acknowledged handwriting as it
does to the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters, and it appears to me to suggest
an additional proof of the fact that the letters in question were one
and all written by Madame Blavatsky.
In Part I. of this Report I have shown that the circumstantial e,-i-
dence which I obtained in relation to these disputed letters, adds to the-
strength of the conclusion reached on grounds of handwriting, that
:Madame Blavatsky wrote them. I shall show later that there is eYi-
dence which confirms yet further the justice of this conclusion. In
• Several of tbese letters were lent to me for my own examination by the
editor of the Chrjatiall College MaglUine. The remaining letters I examined
at the house of a gentleman in whose custody they were at the time. Some of
them which I selected myself were entrusted to me to he sent to England for
the judgment of the best experts obtainable, with the special request that they
should be returned &8 BOOn &8 possible. and I found upon my arrival in England
that they had already been returned.
t I refer to the B. Marginal Notes aUlI the B. Replies. (See pp.282
and 290.)
Digitized by Google
278 JI,.. Hodg.on'd Report
order to appreciate the considerations which follow, we must first
understand the circumstances under which several of the documents
demanding our attention appeared. I must therefore bl'iefty describe
the course of events at the headquarters of the Theosophical Society
after the departure of Madame Bla\'atsky and Colonel Olcott for
Europe in February, 1884.
Before this time, according to Dr. Hartmann, if Madame Coulomb
., found a willing ear she would never hesitate a moment to insinuate
-that the whole Society was a humbug, the phenomena pl'Oduced by
fraud, and that' she could tell many things, if she only wanted to do
so.''' After the departure of Afadarue Blavatsky she appal·tmtly began
-to speak more freely to that effect, IMld it appeared, moreover, to the
officers of the Society, especially Mr. St. George Lane-Fox and Dr.
Hartmann, that the Coulombs were wasting its funds. Letters on the
subject were written from the headquarters to Madame Bla\'atsky and
Colonel Olcott. In particular, MI'. Damodar wrote to l\Iadame Blavatsky,
probably by the mail leaving India. 011 March 12th, which would
arrive in Paris about April 1st, informing her that l\Iadame Coulomb
was spreading reports that the phenomena were fraudulent. In
the meantime Mr. Lane-Fox and Dr. Hartmann resoh'ed" to impeach
them L
the Coulombs] in a formal manner," and began to draw up the
charges. At this stage Mr. Damodar produced a Koot Hoomi letter
which he declared that he had receh'ed from the "nstrnl form of a.
Chela," and which runs as follows :-
" So long as one has not developed a perfect sense of justice, he should
}Jrefer to err rather on the side of mercy than commit the slightest act of
injustice. Madame Coulomb is a medium and as such irresponsible for many
things she may say or do. At the same time she is kind and charitable.
One must know how to act towards her to make her a very good friend.
She has her own weaknesses, but their bad effects can be minimised by
exercising on her mind a moral influence by a friendly and kindly feeling.
Her mediumistic nature is a help in this direction, if proper a<l\'antage be
taken of the same.
•• It is my wish therefore that she shall continue in charge of tJle household
business, ilie Board of Control of COU1'8e exercising a prolICI' supervisory
control, and seeing, in consultation with her, that no unnecessary expendi-
ture is incurred. A goml deal of refoml is necessary and can be mMe rather
with the help than the antagonism of Madame Coulomb. Damodar would
lIave told you this but his mind was purposely obscured, without his know-
ledge, to test your intentions. Show this to MMaDle Coulomb, so that she
JlIay co.operate with you. K. H."
The above letter is docketed as having been received on :Mllrch 22nd.
{I shall refer to this letter afterwards, when I shall give reasons for
thinking that it was written by llr. Damodar, as "K. H. (Y)."] The
Digitized by Google
0" Phenomena cOlmected leith Theo8oph!/. 279
effect of it was that "an armistice was cOllcJ.uded with the Coulombs
by treating them with greater consideration."
OnApril 1st,according to Dr. Hartmann'saccount, Madame Coulomb,
lIr. Lane-Fox, and Mr. Damodar went "for a change" to Oota.ca.-
mund. By this time the letters complaining of the Coulombs had
reached Madame Blavatsky, who wr'?te to the Coulombs a letter which
with its threats and its pleadings* speaks for itself to the intelligent
reader. Madame Blavatsky no doubt wrote also to Mr. Damodar.
Her letters would reach Madras about April 24th, and Ootacamund
on April 26th, on which date Mr. Damodar produced a Mahatma M.
letter, declaring that it had fallen in his room; it was addressed to
Dr. Hartmann, who has published the following portions of it::-
.. For BOme time already the woman has opened communication-a
regular diplomatic pouryarler&-with the enemies of the cause, certain padria.
She hopes for more than 2,000 nlpees from thenl if she helps them ruining
or at least injuring the Society by injuring the reputation of the founders.
Hence hints as to 'trap-doori' and tricks. Moreover tDM7l needed trap.doors
u;ill be fWlld, as they have been forthcoming for BOrne time. They are sole
masters of the top storey. They alone have full entrance to and control of
the premises. ' Monsier J is clever and cunning at every handicraft-good
mechanic and carpenter, and good at walla likewise. Take note of thi8-ye
The03ap/1Ws. They hate you with all the hatred of failure against success ;
Soci!3ty, Henry, H. P. B., theoBOphists, and aye-the verynameoftheo80phy.
The '" '" '" are ready to layout a good sum for the ruin of the Society
they hate. * '" * Moreovor the J '" '" '" of India are in direct
understanding with those of London and Paris. '" *. '" Keep all said
above in strictest confidence if you would be strongest. Let her not suspect
YOIf know it, but if you would have my advice-be prudent, yet act without
delay. '" '" * M.O."
Mr. Damodar was instructed on the outside of the letter to let Dr.
Hartmann have it without delay; and Dr. Hartmann was instructed
in the document itself to show it to Mr. Lane-Fox. The writer
of the letter was evidently unaware that Mr. Lane-Fox was with
:lIr. Damodar at Ootacamund, and that Dr. Hartmann was at Madras.
lIr. Damodar, however, remedied the ignorance of "Mahatma M.",
and showed the letter to Mr. Lane-Fox before forwarding it to Dr.
Hartmann.
As a consequence of these and other documents and the resulting
altercations, immediate action was taken by Mr. Lane-Fox and Dr.
Hartmann,which led to the expulsion of Madame Coulomb on Ma.y 14th,
on the ground tha.t she had spoken evil of the Society. According
to Dr. Hartmann, "M. Coulomb was requested to resign, but as he
• See Madame Conlomb'lI pamphlet" Some Account," &0., pp.9-1-104.
Digitized by Google
280 NI'. Hodg8on'8 Report
could not make up his mind whether he would do so or not, he was
expelled likewise."
The t·eader will remember that the contrivances for trickery were
investigated when M. Coulomb gave up the keys of Madame Blavatsky's
rooms on May 17th or 18th. Madame Coulomb showed me a telegram
sent to her by lIadame Blavatsky on May 19th: "What can be done 1
Telegraph"; and asserted that this telegram was in l"eply to a lettet·
written by her to Madame Blavatsky at the end of April (which would
reach Paris about May 19th), threatening, in case of a rupture, to
produce incriminating letters written by the latter. M. Coulomb
declal"es that he showed tIlls telegram to Mr. Damodar, who refused to
take any notice of it, and therefore no reply was sent by the Coulombs
to Madame Blavatsky.
Some time later Colonel Olcott received, he says, in a "cover post
marked Madras," a letter forged in the handwriting of Dr. Hartmann.
"Writing to Dr. Hartmann on July 10th, Colonel Olcott stated that he
had received this document "some little time ago," and had laid it away
in his despatch-box, but that in going through his papers that morning
(July 10th), "I noticed that the Master had been putting his hand upon
the document and while reading his endorsement I heard him tell me
to send it to you by to-day's post."
The endorsement-by "Mahatma M."-is in these words: "A
clumsy forgery, but good enough to show how much an enterprising
enemy can do in this direction. They may call this at Adyar-a.
pioneer."
The document" itself is as follows :-
Private. Adyar, April 28th, 1884.
My DEAR MAJ>AMlI: COULOMB,-I was very glad to receive your kind
warning: but I need a new I\Dd further expllID&tion before I will beleive in
Madame Blavatsky's imloee1lce. From the first week of my arrieval I knew
she was a trickllter for I had received intimation to that effect, I\Dd had been
told so by Mr. Lane-Fox before he went to Ooty (l\Dd who added moreover,
that he had come from England with this purpose, as he had received secret.
instructions from the London fellows) imd even sayd that he felt sure she
was a spy).
She is worse than you think and she lied to me about lots of things; but.
you may rest assured that she shall not bambuzle tile.
I hope to tell you more when I seeyou, upon your return from Ootocamund
and show you that Col. Olcott is no better than he SllOuld be.
Excuse"short letter. I am writing in the dark.
Yours faithfully,
DR. F. HARTMANN.
This forged Hartmann document, and also the endorsement thereon,
are, in my opinion, the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky. I think
Digitized by Google
011 PIleI/omena connected u:it/, The08oplly. 281
there can be little doubt that she forged this Hartmann document for
the purpose of attributing the forgery to the Coulombs, in order that
she might thus prepare the way for her assertion that the Blavatsky-
Coulomb letters were also forgeries. The evidence for this will appear
later. I must now describe the manner in which various documents
used by me in my examination of handwriting in India came into my
possession.
Soon after my arrival at Adyar, I asked for a specimen of }Iadame
Blavatsky's undoubted handwriting,-for the purpose of comparison
with the disputed documents. Mr. Damodar avoided giving me any
before Madame Blavatskyand Colonel Olcott reached headquarters,
and after I had had some conversation with them on the subject, Colonel
Olcott said that Madame Blavatsky would write me a letter at once, if
I wished, which I could use as a test document. I replied that it would
be desirable for me to have some manuscript that was written before
the appearance of the ChriB'ian College Magazine in September, where-
upon Colonel Olcott said abruptly that he could take no action as to
giving me any handwriting of Madame Blavatsky's until their own
Committee had met and that Madame Blavatsky was in the hands of
the Theosophical Society.
My request, made at the same time, for Mahatma documents for the
purpose of submitting them to a caligraphic expert was also refused.
I was afterwards, however, enabled to obtain some documents in the
following manner. Mr. Damodar had recounted to me some of his
professed experiences, and had shown me several Mahatma documents in
connection with them. Most of these, he alleged, were too plivate to be
submitted for my reading throughout, but there were several to which
this objection did not apply, and aDlong these were some 161 pages
of the K. H. writing in black ink, which had formed portions of
the reply by K. H. to questions which had been raised concerning
certain statements in "Esoteric Buddhism." I pointed out to Mr.
Damodar that there could be no possible objection to my having these
for examination, and he agreed, and allowed me to take them away for
a few days for my own inspection only. The 16jpp. referred to I shall
.speak of as the K. H. 16ipp.
I received also from Dr. Hartmann, for my own inspection only,
the letter from Madame Blavatsky, written to him from Elberfeld in
October, 1884, the forged Hartmann document, and the K.H. (Y)
letter already mentioned.
Further, I had been anxious to know what answer Madame
Blavatsky bad to make to the pamphlet written by Madame
Coulomb, entitled "Some Account," «c., and Madame Blavatsky
bad taken the trouble to write out her replies to the first portion
of this pamphlet, although I had not asked her for a written
U
Digitized by Google
.-
282 Mr. Hodgson's Report
statement, and although she made oral statements as well, the
important points of which I took down at the time in writing. This
written statement by Madame Blavatsky covers about Tipp. foolscap.
I shall speak of it as the B. Replies. In addition, Madame Blavatsky
wrote various statements in my copy of Madame Coulomb's pamphlet.
These I shall speak of as the B. Marginal.Notes. Other documents
came under my notice, which it will suffice to specify further on
when I have occasion to refer to them.
I now proceed to consider the authorship of the Mahatma.
letters, and propose in the first place, and chiefly, to deal with the
K. H. series of documents, these being by far the most abundant and
the most important of the Mahatma writings. It is upon the K. H.
series almost exclusively that Mr. Sinnett has relied for his volume on
"Esoteric BuddhillIn" as well as for certain portions of "The Occult
World" ; it is to the K. H. series that most of the Mahatma letters
written to other persons also belong; and it is portions of the K. H.
series alone which we have been able to obtain for the purposes of
careful examination.
With the incriminating Blavatsky-Coulomb letters wlJich were
submitted to Mr. Netherclift, were also submitted some specimens of
the K. H. writing, viz., several small slips which were forwarded
from India. with the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters proper, a K. H.
document in blue ink submitted by Mr. Massey, and a K. H.
document in blue pencil submitted by Mr. Myers. Mr. Netherclift, in
the first instance, came to the conclusion that these K. H. documents
were not written by Madame Blavatsky. I had already expressed
my- own conclusion, reached after an investigation of K. H.
writings in India, that those I had examined were, with the
exception of the K. H. (Y), written by Madame Blavatsky, and
on my arrival in England I was surprised to find that Mr. Netherclift
was of a different opinion concerning the K. H. writings submitted
to him. The small slips I had already seen in India; and after
examining the K. H. writings submitted by Messrs. Massey and Myers,
I concluded that these also were written by Madame Blavatsky. My
judgment, however, was originally formed upon my examination of
the K. H. 16ipp., in which the marks of Madame Blavatsky's handi-
work were more patent than in the documents which Mr. Netherclift
had had an opportunity of examining. In the meantime we had
obtained from Mr. Sinnett eight specimens of the K. H. writing, which
represented, some of them at least, consecutive periods of time, beginning
with the earliest letter received by Mr. Sinnett. In this, which was
received about October, 1880, the traces of Madame Blavatsky's
handiwork were numerous and conspicuous, and from th~ onwards
the gradual development of the K. H. conventional characteristics,
Digitized by Google
0" PMnomena connected tcitll Theo8oph!/. 283
and the gradual elimination of many of Madame Blavatsky's pecu-
liarities, were clearly manifest. The K. H. writings which had
been submitted to Mr. Netherclift, were written after Madame
Blavatsky had had years of practice. I therefore re-submitted to him
the K. H. writings belonging to l\Iessrs. Massey and Myers, which
we still had in our possession, together with the series forwarded
by :Mr. Sinnett. The result was that Mr. Netherclift came to the con-
clusion that the whole of these documents were without doubt written
by Madame Blavatsky. Mr. Sims, of the British Museum, who had
originally expressed the same conclusion as Mr. Netherclift, similarly
changed his opinion after inspection of the documents furnished by Mr.
Sinnett.
I may now give some of the results of my own comparison of these
documents with the undisputed handwriting of Madame Blavatsky.*
At first sight Madame Blavatsky's ordinary handwriting, for the
most part small and somewhat irregular, looks very different from the
. large, bold, round, regular writing of the K. H. documents. It is only
when we examine closely the formations of individual letters that the
b'aces of the same handiwork in both become obvious. The little
importance that can be attached to the mere general appearance of a
written document is well enough known to persons who are at all
familiar with the comparisons of handwritings.
I shall now endeavour to show-
I. That there are clear signs of development in the K. H. writing,
various strong resemblances to Madame Blavatsky's ordinary hand-
writing having been gradually eliminated.
II. That special forms of letters propel' to Madame Blavatsky's
ordinary writing, and not proper to the K. H. writing, occasionally
appear in the latter.
III. That there are certain very marked peculiarities of Madame
Blavatsky's ordinary writing which occur throughout the K. H.
writing.
I shall specify, undel' each of these -heads, the most important
instances that I have observed, but shall not attempt to place before
the reader any exhaustive statement of them, as this would be tedious.
I. Facsimiles of the series of K. H. letters lent by Mr. Sinnett
would perhaps have been interesting and suggestive to the reader, and
would have clearly shown the development of the K. H. hand; but
.. In addition to the manuscripts which I have already mentioned &8 pro·
viding me with a knowledge of Madame Blavatsky's ordinary handwriting, I
have in my possession various undisputed writings of hers produced between
1877 and 1885, among which are three letters written to a Hindu in 18i8, three
writings to )lr. Hume about the years 1881·1882, and other more recent letters
to Messrs. Massey and Myers.
u 2
284 HI'. HodgsOil's RrjJol't
Mr. Sinnett strongly emphasized his desire that no use whatever should
be made of the specimens he submitted except for comparison of
handwriting, and the facsimile production of portions of the
documents was, of course, impossible without the publication, to
some rlxtent, of theil' substance. I have therefore chosen se\'eral
smoll letters, j, g, k and 1/, for the purpose of illustrating the
development I have mentioned. The groups of individuol letters in
Plate I. are copied from tracings of my own made from the original
documents, and hence many of them exhibit a tremulous appearance
which is not characteristic of the original 1188., and which might have
been avoided if the work had been done entirely by the lithographic
artist. The letters in the first row of each of the groups of
the j, g, k, 1/ are taken from undisputed writings of Madame
Blavatsky, those to Mr. Hume already mentioned. These letters I
shall call (B). The remaining five rows of each group are taken from
the first five documents of the K. H. series lent by lIr. Sinnett.
These I shall speak of as K. H. No.1, K. H. No.2, &c. The numbers
do not mean that these were the first five letters receh'ed by lIr.
Sinnett from "K. H." Mr. Sinnett describes them as follows :-
" No. 1 * * * is the first sheet of the first letter I eyer had from
him certainly through another hand.
" Nos. 2 and 3 selections from later letters of the old series written
before the publication of • The Occult World.' *
"No. 4 was received by me in London about the time •Esoteric
Buddhism' was published·t
"No.5 * * is from a letter certainly in K. H.'s own handwriting."
The j, it will be observed, in Madame Blavatsky's ordina.ry hand-
writing (B), is commonly looped only below, and is usually
preceded by an up-stroke. It is easy to see the close correspondence
between the/'8 in (B) and those in K. H. No 1. Compare, moreover,
the sec~nd.ff in (B) with the.lf in K. H. No.2; the formation is
peculiar and the resemblance striking. The type of the/soon changes.
In K. H. No. I, the forms are almost all looped below, but in K. H.
No.2 they are generally looped above, and as we go on through Nos. 3,
4, and 5, Madame Bla."vatsky's ordinary/ gradually disappears; though
here and there in later K. H. documents astray/looped only below
may be discovered, sometimes the upper loop is found to have been
added by an afterstroke, and the tendency to make /,8 with a loop
below is manifest.
The g'8 in K. H. No.1. are very various, but yet suggest an effort
to introduce a new type. Various as they a.re, however, I believe that
• II The Occult World" (first edition) was published June 2nd, 188].
t II El!Oteric Buddhism" (first edition) was published June 8th, 1883.
Digitized by Google
01, PkeMmenrl connected trUk TheolJophy. 285
by a careful search I might match almost every form in K. H. No. 1
by a corresponding form from Madame Blavatsky's acknowledged hand-
writing. Even from the specimens given in (B) it will be perceived
that her g's vary greatly, and that there are one or two curious forms
that find fairly close parallels in K. H. Nos. 1 and 2.
The characteristic K. H. k, which is formed quite differently from
Madame Blavatsky's, first appears, I think, in K. H. No.2, but is
somewhat narrower in formation than the type it ultimately reaches.
Some of the k's in the group represent capitals, the capital k being
formed on the same type as the small k. :Madame Blavatsky's
ordinary k is frequently preceded by an upstroke and consists of
1\ main downstroke from the bottom of which the next stroke starts
upwards, trending to the right, without the pen's having been
taken off the paper. The final stroke is frequently added separately
and often not connected with the rest of the letter; but in many
cases the whole of the letter appears to be made in one continuous
movement. All these habits, together with other little peculiarities of
curvature, are clearly visible in the k's of K. H. No.1, and in later
K. H. documents the gap between the two last strokes of the k con-
tinues to be common. The last of the ~s selected from K. H. No.3
is particularly noteworthy as exhibiting a lap8U8 calami which has
been partially covered with the cloak of the K. H. k curvature.
The '!I's in the early K. H. documents, most of which have a
nearly straight downstroke, with a little curl to the right, are just as
suggestive of Madame Blavatsky as are the /'s, and they begin to
develop nearly as rapidly as the g's and in the same direction, the
downstroke of both eventually ending in a pronounced curling curve to
the left, with the concave side habitually upwards. The letter j has
developed similarly, and so also apparently has the letter z, aU of
these letters finally exhibiting a similar curve to the left.
In the group of letters (B"), all of which are taken from Madame
Blavatsky's ordinary writing, I have given various forms of her t.
All these forms are common in the earliest K. H. documents;
the first three forms are common in the developed K. H.
writing, the peculiarity in the third form being the very small curl to
the right at the end of the downstroke. The fourth form occurs
occasionally even in some of the latest K. H. writings which I
have seen, but in these I have observed no specimen at all of the fifth
and sixth forms. The fifth and sixth forms, with the curious loop at
the bottom before tho stroke runs on to the next letter, abound how-
ever in a large portion of the K. H. MSS. in my possession, written about
1880-1882. The sixth form is apparently an offshoot of the fourth form,
the fifth being intermediate. The downstroke of the first form of t
is almost universally non-loo~d, as represented ill the Plate, ill
Digitized by Goo
286 Mr. Hodg8on'8 Report
Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writings of 18i8; similarly in the
earliest K. H. writing; and though in the developed K. H. writing
this t is commonly looped, the non-looped form is very frequent. The
long dashes through or over the fs, which are a marked feature of the
K. H. writing; may be merely the expansion of a habit of Madame
Blavatsky's, in whose ordinary writings these dashes are just as
pronounced as they are in the earliest K. H. documents.
Preceding upstrokes, which are prevalent in Madame Blavatsky's
ordinary handwriting, are far more numerous in the earliest than in
the latest K. H. documents.
The German type of d may be mentioned as a letter which has heen
gradually eliminated from the K. H. writing, but I shall have more to
say abou~ this further on.
I havA now in my hands the Koot Hoomi letter, the greater part
of which is quoted by Mr. Sinnett in "The Occult 'Vorld," pp. 85-95.
It bears the date of November 1st (1880), and is signed in full, "Koot
Hoomi Lal Sing," by which name it may be designated. The second
group of capital letters in the Plate is taken from this document; the
first group, which I will call (B'), is taken from undisputed writings of
Madame Blavatsky-from the same documents whence the small
letters (B) are taken. These capital letters, A, D, F, P, T, require but
little comment. The D, F, and T, of the Koot Hoomi Lal Sing are
especially suggestive of Madame Blavatsky's handiwork, and they soon
disappear from the K. H. documents. The hook above, at the
end of the roof-stroke of the first Koot Hoomi T, presents a similar
appearance to that shown by a form of T which occurs in a letter of
Madame Blavatsky's in I8i8. The common forms of F and T in the
K. H. writings are quite different from Madame Blavatsky's usual forms;
the specimens in square brackets represent the type commonly found
in the Koot IIoomi Lal Sing. The characteristic features which occur
in the P's of (B') and those of R.oot Hoomi Lal Sing may be noted.
The long preliminary upstroke, the crook to the left at the end of the
downstroke, seen also in the F's and the T's, the downward curl which
begins the umbrella curvature above, the turn to the left which ends it,
and the little final scrape downwards. Some of these. as also some of
the characteristics of the D, remain throughout the K. H. writing, but
others almost completely disappear.
II. \Ve are now to consider letters which are proper to l\ladame
Blavatsky's ordinarywriting, and not to the K. H. writing, but which yet
occasionally appear in the latter-apparently by mistake. An !Attempt
is often made to remedy the mistake by afterstrokes, transforming the
letter into the K. H. type. Such additions, reformations, cloakings
and erasures occur in the case both of small and of capital letters; they
appear to me to be especially significant, and to place it almost beyond
Digitized by Goo
01' Pl1elUJmena connected fDith The08())}hu. 287
a doubt that the person who wrote the K. H. MSS. where they occur
was in the habit of produt::ing a different handwriting, and that that
person was Madame Blavatsky. I find numel·OUS instances throughout
the K. H. documents which I have examined, but especially in the
earlier ones, and will mention a few of the letters in which these mistakes
ha\"e been made. •
The letter 6 in Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writing is uniformly
made upon the common type which we are all taught in copybooks, but
when it begins a word in the K. H. writing, it is formed on the same
type as Madame Blavatsky's capital E in her ordinary writing. Yet
in the early K. H. documents there are many instances where the initial
small 6 was at first well formed in the ordinary way, and then transformed
into the other type by the addition of a second curve at the top; there
are instances also where the transformation was never made, and the
initial 6 of the ordinary type still remains.
Instances occur in the K. H. writings of the form of Ie which is
most characteristic of Madame Blavatsky; sometimes the form bas
been cloaked by an afterstroke, as in the case a1ready mentioned, and
sometimes not.
The letter x in the K. H. writings is formed even from the
first in an entirely different way from that used by Madame Blavatsky
in her' ordinary writing; a different form would seem to bave been
deliberately and successfully adopted. Nevertheless, there are one or
two cases where Madame Blavatsky's ordinary x was first made,
and the K. H. x superposed; and I have also discovered,
in the Koot Hoomi writings now in my hands, two instances-pure
and free, undimmed by any cloakings, and untouched by any after·
strokes-of Madame Blavatsky's own x. One of these stray X'8 abides
near thesheltering presence of a capital Q beginning theword "Quixottes"
(sic.), which is suggestive of Madame Blavatsky's peculiar form, and
which is very different from the Q which I have found oftenest in the
K. H. writing. Another Q which I bave found in the K. H.
writing bears a much closer resemblance to Madame Blavatsky's
ordinary Q.
There are several conspicuous instances of alterations in the K. H.
capital B, Madame Blavatsky's usual form having been first made
either partially or entirely. I have observed two very notable and
indubitable specimens of this; an a1tered capital B, which the reader
will find in Plate II., K. H. (I), I regard as a doubtful case.
Madame Blavatsky uses two forms of capital P, the one illustrated
in the Plate, and another, perhaps the commoner of the two, which
shows a very different type. I have seen a specimen of the latter in the
K. H. 16!pp., and there are several very closely resembling it in the
K. H. lISS. in my possession.
Digitized by Google
288 Mr. HodgBOlI's Report
Many other instances might be given under this head, and some-
thing like the counterpart of what I have been pointing out is also
true-viz., that forms of letters proper to the K. H. writing, and not to
Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writing, occasionally appear in the latter.
This is pel'llaps the most convenient place to mention the stroke
'over the m. This stroke, which is a peculiar and apparently meaning-
less feature of the K. H. writing, occurs several times oyer
letters which resemble an English m in some Russian writing
which I have seen by ?tladame Blavatsky. There are two Russian
letters which resemble the English 111, and these, I am informed
by Mr. W. R. S. Ralston, "being much alike when written carelessly,
they are sometimes, but rarely, written" with a stroke above and below
respectively. This may suggest the origin of the stroke over the 'I1l in
the Koot Hoomi writings.
HI. I shall now proceed to show that there are fundamental
peculiarities in some of Madame Blavatsky's formations of certain
small letters which are found throughout all tllS K. H. writin[/s
,c!licldlKlve examined, except those wl~ich tll6re are strong positive grounds
for Gtt1'ibuting to the aut/,orship ofMr. DG11Iodar.
The e,idence which we arc now to consider is, in my "iew, the
most important of all in proof of the fact that the K. H. writings
in general are the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky. This evidence
depends on :Madame Blavatsky's formation of the group of letters G, d,
!J, 0, and q. The peculiarities exhibited in these letters are very
striking; they are sufficiently shown in the specimens of G, d, 0, and q,
which I have gi"en in group B" (all the letters in which are taken
from the undoubted writings of Madame Blavatsky), and are apparent
also in the clifferent groups of g'B which I have given as mani-
festing the evolution of the characteristic K. H. g. A properly mllde
" 0 "formation is uncommon both in Madame Blavatsky's ordinary
handwriting and in the K. H. writings. If the letter requiring such &
formation is initial, or not connected with the preceding letter, the
tendency in both handwritings is to produce a formation akin to those
shown in the first four a'B, the first three English d'B, and the first four q'B.
If the letter is connected with the preceding letter, the tendency is either
to begin the "0" formation high up with a loop, as happens. most
commonly in the case of the d, leaving a gap above,-or to begin it
low down, in which case the curve is rarely closed by a complete
backward stroke,-and a peculiar gap therefore remains on the left-
hand side. This last method of formation, which I shall call the left-
gap stroke, may be clearly seen in some of the q'B and 0'8, and is yet
more noticeable in the g's and a's, of which last especially it is
IllS common, conspicuous, and mOBt ltigTtly characteristic feature. botlt in
Madarlle Blavatsky'B ordinary writing and in tho8e K. 1I. W'I-itings
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena connected frill, TIIC080phy. 289
ttJlticl, I attribute to her.* It is so peculiar, that were it found but
ra.rely in both sets of writings, 01' commonly in one and rarely in
the other, it would still be a tolerably definite indication of identity
of handiwork; but when we find, as we do, that it occurs constantly
in both sets of writings, that any other fOl'm (except the initial
forms spoken of) is comparatively rare, and that numerous varieties
of the type in the one set of writings can be exactly paralleled
in the other, there can, I think, be little doubt that one and the same
person wielded the pen throughout. Only a few specimens of these
peculiar letters are given in the plate. Sometimes the stroke ends by
rolling into the right-hand part of the curve, so that in the case of the
a the remaining part of the letter, which is commonly made
';'ith a new stroke of the pen, appears to be ahnost or quite
continuous with the first stroke. Frequently the second part
of the letter is quite unconnected with the first part, and frequently it
begins in the heart of the space partially enclosed by the first stroke.
Sometimes, again, the first stroke travels farther back to the left than
its origin, still leaving a gap, and sometimes, but seldom, it even joins
its ongin, so as to form a complete enclosure. It must be difficult for
any person to trace this lift-gap stroke throughout a series of Madame
Bla.vatsky's acknowledged writings, and throughout a set of what I
believe to be her K. H. writings, comparing in detail all the
swirling tricks and fantastic freaks of curvature which it adopts, and
at the same time resist the impression that the same person executed
them all.
There are two types of d given in the plate, which I may speak of as
the German d (enclosed in square brackets) and the English d. It is the
English type which is ahnost universally assumed by the din all but the
earliest writings; while the German type is now ahnost exclusively used
by Madame Blavatsky in her ordinary writing. In the early Koot Hoomi
writings, however, there are many instances of the German d, and in
Madame Blavatsky's writings of 1878 and 1879 the English d frequently
occurs. The first part of the English d is formed like the initial a's, or with
a loop, and there is frequently a wide gap between the loop and the final
down stroke of the letter, which is often clipped short, as shown in some
of the instances in the Group (B"). This looped d with the wide gap and
the clipped down stroke 1 shall call the clipped loose d ; it is the character·
istic form of the developed K. H. writing, and among the English d's
of Madame Blavatsky's undoubted handwriting it is also of common
occurrence. But some persons who possess writings of Madame
.. Mr. Gribble, in his pamphlet, "A Report of an Examination into the
Bltwatsky Correspondence," &c., has drawn special attention to this left gap-
stroke in Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writing, and to the significance of it!S
OI.'Cllrrence in some K. H. writing.
Digitized by Goo
290 JII'. Hodgson's Report
Blavatsky may, perhaps, be unable to find any specimens at all of the
English cl in her writing; and this brings me to the additional evidence
which I said at the beginning of this part of my report would be forth-
coming in proof of the fact that Madame Blavatsky wrote the Blavatsky-
Coulomb letters.
In three letters written by Madame Blavatsky in 1878, the English
d occurs about 80 times and the German d about 340 times. In a letter
to Mr. Massey of July, 1879, the English d occurs about 130 times and
the German d about 525 times. In her three writings to Mr.
Hume, already mentioned, of about 1881-82, the English d occurs
4 times and the German d about 674 times. In three letters (and two
envelopes) to Mr. Massey in 1884 the English d occurs 6 times and the
German d about 1106 times. In four letters (and two em-elopes) to Mr:
Myers in 1884 the English d occurs 5 times and the German d about
400 times. In the Elberfeld letter to Dr. Hartmann, 1884, d occurs
39 times, and is always of the German type.
In the B. ReplieB the English d occurs about 140 times and the
German d about 220 times, and in B. Marginal Kotes the English d
occurs 6 times and the German d about 89 times. These writings were
produced in the time covered by the last few days of 1884 and the
first few days of 1885, the Marginal KoteB being for the most part
slightly later than the Replies.
Now, it can hardly fail to be regarded as singular that the English
d being thus frequent (about 210 to 865) in Madame Blavatsky's
ordinary writings in 1878 and 1879, and being thus rare (15 to
about 2,200, and 7 out of these 15 occur on envelopes) in Madame
Blavatsky's writings from 1881 to 1884, should suddenly be found in
such abundance as appears in the B. Replies, and I have been
able myself to account for this singular fact in only one way. Before
Madame Blavatsky's arri"al at Adyar at the end of 1884, l\Ir. J. D. B.
Gribble, of Madras, had published" A Report of an Examination
into the Blavatsky Correspondence Published in the Cl,riBtian
College J/agazine," and in that report he drew special attention,
in connection with the Blavatsky-Coulomb letter dated .1st April,
1884, to the uniformity of the small d of the German type. Now
l\Iadame Blavatsky knew that I was desirous of obtaining 1\ specimen
of her undoubted writing for the purpose of testing the Blayatsky-
Coulomb letters; and she knew that I would not use a letter profeB8edly
written to meet my requirement since I had already declined the offer
made by Colonel Olcott, I assume at her instigation, that she should
write such a letter (see p. 281). Is it not possible that she hoped, neYer-
theless, that I might use as my standard a document written by her
ostensibly with quite another object 1 Had I used the B. Replie8, with
its numerous English els, as a standard of reference for the Blavatsky-
Digitized by Google
0" Phenomena connected Iritll Theosophy. 291
Coulomb letters, I should have been compelled to conclude that the rarity
of the English d in the disputed documents was certainly an argument
in favour of their having been forged. But a comparison of the B. Replies
in tills respect with other writings of Madame Blavatsky shows that
unquestionably this frequency of the English d is foreign to Madamo
Blavatsky's ordinary writing produced about the same time as the B.
Replies, or during the four previous years. I cannot help thinking
therefore that the use of these English d's was deliberate, and that
they were inserted for the special purpose of misleading me in one of
the most important parts of my investigation. In one or two other
minor points Madame Blavatsky has also, I think, in the B. Replies,
altered her usual handwriting. If I am right in this conclusion it
would follow that Madame Blavatsky has resorted to a device which an
innocent person would scarcely be likely to adopt; and when I take all
the circumstances into consideration, remembering especially that
l\Iadame Blavatsky was entirely unaware, as I believe, that I intended
to send some of the disputed documents to England for examination-
the manuscript in question affords, in my opinion, strong confirmatory
evidence of her authorship of the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters.
To return to the K. H. writings, it is strongly suggested by the
foregoing facts concerning Madame B,lavatsky's d's that, since the
appearance of K. H. writing with the English d as the regular form,
she has aimed at eliminating the English type from her ordinary hand-
writing, and using there the German type; but what we ha~e especially
to note here is that the very marked peculiarities which characterise
the formation of the English d in her acknowledged handwriting,
also characterise its formation in the K. H. manuscript which I
attribute to her.
There are other minor peculiarities common to both sets of writings.
One of these, which occurs in the formation of the letter " deserves
special mention, and several specimens are given in the Plate (B'I
). When
final, it is frequently clipped very short; not only is the last upstroke
frequently wanting, but the main downstroke is often carried no further
than its junction with the first upstroke of the letter, so that the letter
remains as a mere loop. Moreover, in the case of ll, the second l is
not only frequently clipped short, but it takes a different angle from
that of the previous l (compare also thejf), not rising so high, and pre-
senting the appearance of tumbling over to the right. These forms of
1 are common both in Madame Blavatsky's undoubted writing, and in
the K. H. MSS. which I believe to have been written by her.
The peculiar formations in the group of letters a, a, g, 0
and q, were entirely absent from the K. H. (Y), but they wero
present in the other K. H. documents which I had the opportunity
of carefully examining in India. In some of these latter documents
Digitized by Goo
292 Mr. Hodg8on" Report
there were further traces of Madame Blavatsky's handiwt'lrk-e.g.,
in the K. H. 16ipp. there were various alterations, and the word
or letters altered were usually crossed out, but in three places
ca.reful erasul"es hOO been made, and these erasures were just where
the K. H. k had been afterwards formed. In two of these
cases I was unable to determine what the previous formation had
been, but in the third I could still trace the outline of Madame
Billovatsky's characteristic k. In another place in the same MS., the
word "Buddhist" had been inserted a.fterwards in faint lead-pencil;
this was written in Madame Blavatsky's ordinary handwriting; upon
it had been written, in ink, the same word in the K. H. writing, but
the pencil marks had not been erased. In the K. H. document alleged
by Madame Fadooff to have been received by her at Odessa from" Ull
messager afigure asiatique, qui disparut BOUB nl."..8 yeux ni>2mes," Madame
Blavatsky's characteristic (I formations were present, and there were
also many instances of the after stroke transforming a well-formed copy-
book e into the Greek type. These were the most noticeable of those
features of the document· which struck me in the two or three minutes'
inspection of it which I had the opportunity of making.
I have, I think, said enough to justify my conclusion that Madame
Blavatsky was the writer of nearly all the K. H. documents which I
have seen. And since those which I attribute to her include, among
others, the whole of the K. H. manuscript forwarded to me by Mr.
Hume, as well as every specimen of the series lent to us by Mr. Sinnett,
I think I may assume that by far the greater portion of the K. H.
lISS. is the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky. .
Different specimens of Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writing and
• I think it not improbalJle that this document was written by l\Iadame
Bla\'atsky in 18i9 or 1880 when the idea of corresponding with one of the
"Brothers" appears to have been first mooted. In weighing the statement of
Madame Fadealf that ahe received the document about the year 1870, we shouM
remember that Rhe is a RUS8ian lady, and the aunt of Madame Blavatsky, and
that Madame Blavatsky may have been influenced by political motives in the
founding of the Theosophical Society (viti. p. 314). It may be mentioned here
that Madame Blavatsky, when she heard that Mr. HomlUsji had given e\idence
that he had received a brooch from her for repair, which resembled the one
afterwards produced at Simla for Mrs. Hwne, first allel,red (to Mr. Hume) that
the brooch Mr. Hormusji had seen was square, and a few days later (to myself)
that it was roltlld, and had, indeed, some resemblance to 1\Irs. Hume's, that she
(1\Iadame Blavatsky) had pnrchMed it fOl' her niece, and that I could obtain
confinnation from Madame Fadealf. Considering Madame Blavatsky's con-
tradictory statements abont the brooch, this ready reference to 1\Iadame }o'adrelf,
in connection with it, suggests that she WaM a convenient person to appeal
to when no other corroboration of Madame Bla\'atsky'" assertions could b3
obtained.
Digitized by Google
0" Phenomena connected rcit!1 T1IeOBOphy. 293
the K. H. writing may be seen in the Plates which accompany this
Report, and Mrs. Sidgwick's corroboration of my observations will be
found in Appendix XV.
I shall now proceed to give the barest possible outline of the results
of my examination of sundry other documents, and begin with the
K. H. (Y). It was this letter to which Dr. Hartmann referred when
he wrote to us last year that it was "handed to me by Damodar, who
received it in my presence from the hands of the astral/orm of a.
Chela." In his pamphlet, p. 33, he wrote also: "we . . were engaged
in drawing up the charges [against the Coulombs] in my room, when
the astral body of a Chela appeared, and handed the following letter
to Damodar." Madame Blavatsky, in a letter to Mr. C. C. Massey, on
May 4th, 1884, wrote, apparently concerning this letter: "When the
Council assembled and the Board of Trustees were ready to lay the
black charges against her and ha.ve her expelled-there falls on the
table a letter of Mahatma K. H. to the Board, and de/ending ller,
speaking with his Christ-like forgiveness and kindness, and saying that
she was a t1ictim and not a culprit, and that it would one day be
proved." I asked Dr. Hartmann about this incident, and he told me
that Mr. Damodar had lift ti,e room (Dr. Hartmann's), where he had
been talking with Dr. Hartmann, but had returned almost immediately
with the letter in question, saying that he had just received it from
the "astral form of a Chela"! Madame Coulomo alleges that she
peeped through a small hole which she had previously bored through
the wooden partition whic~ formed one side of Mr. Damodar's room,
and that she &aW him preparing this Mahatma letter; and I certainly
found a small hole such as· Madame Coulomb described to me, which
looked as if it had been made on purpose to serve as a spy-hole.
On comparing the K. H. (Y), in India., with ether K. H. MSS. in my
hands at the time, I noted that there was a close similarity as regards
particular characteristics of the K. H. writing, as in the curls to the left
of the downstrokes of g, j and 1/, the stroke over the m, the formation of
the initial small e, the z, p, &c. In short, those peculiar forms which
I suppose Madame Blavatsky to have deliberately and successfully
employed ill the developed K. H. writing, and which she would
naturally teach as characteristics of the handwriting to any person
whom she wished to train in the art of writing it) were strongly marked
in the K. H. (Y). There were, however, certain differences between
this document and the other K. H. writings with which I compared it.
1. It contained not a ringle i1l8taw.:e qf the "le.ft-gap Btroke," or of
de clipped loose d.
2. There was not a single upstroke preceding the words, 31 in
number, beginning with m, n, or i.
Digitized by Google
294 Mr. Hodg8on's Report
3. The abbreviated 4: was very different from any specimen in the
other K. H. writings.
4. The curl to the left o.t the end of the downstroke in g, j, and y,
was made stiffiy, starting abruptly from the end of the downstroke.
5. It showed a habit of strongly looping the main downstrokes of
certain letters-a habit which appeared especially in the capital M and
the small d. This habit is, in the case of these letters, foreign to the
ordinary K. H. writings, but is eminently suggestive of Mr. Damodar's
handiwork.
6. The capital D was different from either of the two forms usual
in the K. H. writings. The final loop of the D touched without
paasing to the left of the main downstroke. This D was a facsimile of
some which I found in Mr. Damodar's ordinary writing.
7. There were six instances of a peculiar small a, of which I
could not find a single instance in the K. H. 16!pp., but which is
very common in Mr. DlI.modar's ordinary writing.
8. The style was much less flowing than is usual in the K. H.
handwritings, but I do not attribute much importance to this fact.
There were other minor differences, and my examination of the
document led me to the conclusion that it was certainly not written.
by Madame Blavatsky, and that it was probably written by Mr.
Damodar. This conclusion has been strengthened by my examination
of a document, which I shall call K. H. (Z), submitted to us for
examination by Mr. B. J. Padshah, who receivfd it last year direct
from Adyar, in reply to a letter which he had sent, and who thinks
that Madame Blavatsky could not have known anything about the
letter, she being at the time in Europe. The let!er is about the same
length as K. H. (Y), nearly two pages of note-paper.
1. It contains not a single insto.nce of the peculiarities which I
have described in the group of letters a, el, g, and o. (The letter q does
not occur.)
2. There is only one case of a preceding upstroke in the 16 words
beginning with i, and only one very doubtful case of a preceding upstroke
in the 18 words beginning with m or n.
3. It contains an abbreviated tI: of the same formation as that
noted in the K. H. (Y).
4. The turns to the left at the end of the downstroke in g, j, and '!I
have an angular corner, and the cUrYature of the stroke to the left is
always concave downwards, never concave upwards.
5. Several of the 1£8 have the main downstroke very strongly
looped.
6. A capital L on the envelope is different from any L which I haye
found in what I may now call the Blavatsky K. H. writings.
7. Mr. Damodar'a peculiar a formation, which I will describe
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena connected frill, The080p"!/. 295
presently, is obvious in two 0,'8, and there are clear traces of it in other
0,'8, which are now somewhat blurred. A similar formation occurs in
six 0'8, and the tendency to this formation in other instances is
manifest.
8. The style is less flowing than is usual in the K. H. handwritings.
9. The main downstroke of the initial t [type of the first t in the
B' group] of a word is invariably strongly looped; and that of the
final t [type of the second t in the B" group] is almost invariably
looped. .
10. The main downstroke of the b and the'" is invariably looped.
Both K. H. (Y) and K. H. (Z) are written in blue pencil, whert'as
the K. H. documents which I have hitherto discussed are chiefly written
in ink. Lest it should be maintained that the differences noted are
due to this, I shall now compare this K. H. (Z) with another K. H.
letter, also in blue pencil (Spp.), and written approximately at the
same tmle. It was received by Mr. Myers from the hands of Madame
Blavatsky when she was in Cambridge last year, and. I find-
1. That the Blavatskian peculiarities which I have described in the
group of letters a, d, g and 0, abound throughout. .
2. That of thefirst 16 words(excludingfour doubtful cases) beginning
with t, 10 have a preceding upstroke. and that of the first IS words
beginning with In or n, 9 ha.ve a preceding upstroke.
3. The form of tI: is different from the form in K. H. (Z).
4. The corners of the turns to the left at the end of the down-
strokes in g, j and 1/ are almost invariably rounded and the curvature
of the stroke to the left is almost invariably concave upwards.
5. There is no instance of a d with its main downstroke strongly
looped.
6. A capital L which occurs is different from tllat in K. H. (Z).
7. There is one solitary instance (ill the Spp.) of an a formation
which resembles those common in Mr. Damodar's writing, but the
specimen is somewhat doubtful. There is no tendency to this formation
in other instances.
S. The style of handwriting is much freer and swifter than that of
the K. H. (Z).
9. The downstroke of the initial t is rarely 80 strongly looped as in
K. H. (Z), and is frequently not looped at all; and that of the final t is
commonly not looped.
10. The main downstroke of the band the'" is frequently not looped.
There are other points of difference between the two documents,
which, however, it is unnecessary to enumerate.
On the importance of (1) I need not dwell any further. The
contrast noted in (2) is also true to a certain extent in j, u and to. To
none of these letters when beginning a word is there any preceding up-
Digitized by Google
296 NI'. Hodg8on'8 Repo"t
stroke in K. H. (Z). Preceding upstrokes to the letters mentioned are
common in Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writing, but except in the
cases of m and n,* comparatively rare in Mr. Damodar's ordinary
writing. Thus in a letter of his, written last year, there are
17 initial i's, and only two have the upstroke; there are 31 initial
lIl'S, and not one has the upstroke, though there may be a slight doubt
in two cases.
The strong looping of the main downstroke of the d is
characteristic of Mr. Dl\IDodar's writing, as may be seen from tIle
instances in Plate I., Group (D). The specimens in this Group are
taken from a letter written hy Mr. Damodar in August, 1884. The
last instance is especially peculiar, where the upstroke touches the
initial point of the letter and the main downstroke cuts the initial
stroke, which thus divides the extraordinary loop of the d into two
parts. There is a conspicuous example of exactly this form in the
K. H. (Z). It is also particularly to be observed that not only is there
no instance of the clipped loose d, but there is never the slightest
tendency to such a fonnation. There is not a single instance where the
preceding letter runs into the initial stroke of the d so as
to form a. loop with it, and the structnre of the letter
throughout exactly conforms to the structure of the English
d found in Mr. Damodar's ordinary writing. Mr. Damodar
indeed frequently leaves a gap in his ordinary writing between the
beginning of the d and the main downstroke; this seems to be partly
due to rapid writing, but there is apparently one instance of it in the
K. H. (Z), and two other instances may be considered doubtful, though
I think myself, after careful examination with a lens, that the appear-
ance of a gap in these two cases is due simply to the attrition of the
first part of the pencilled stroke. The other most important trace of
Mr. Damodar's handiwork in the K. H. (Z) is the presence of what I
shall call the beaked a formation, of which several instances are given in
the Plate (Group D). The initial point of U.e letter is considerably farther
to the right than the top of the straight downstroke of the letter, which,
moreover, does not reach so high as the upper curvature. It is this
beaked a formation to which I refer above in (7) ; it is yery common
ill Mr. Damodar's ordinary writing.
My own view is thatMr. Damodar unquestionablywrote the K. H. (Z)
as well as the K. H. (Y). lIr. Netherclift has had no opportunity of
seeingthe K. H. (Y), which was only lent to me for a short time in India.,
l)ut the K. H. (Z) was submitted to him with the other K. H.
• The initial curve beginning the tn or n strictly fonus part of the letter in
oniinary writing, but in the K. H. writing these letters are made on the
pattern of the letters i and ft, so that the absence of a first upstroke is les'S
curious than it would otherwise be.
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena cOllntcfed ",ith TlIe08&pll!/. 297
documents upon which he was asked to give a second opinion, with the
additional light afforded by those lent to us by Mr. Sinnett. Mr.
Netherclift, in his second report, stated as his opinion that it was "quite
impossible that Damodar could have accommodated his usual style to
suit that of K. H.," and although he admitted that he was unable
to find in it an instance of what I have called the le/t-gap 8trok6, and
that it was less like Madame Blavatsky's than other of the K. H.
documents, he appeared to think that this may have been due to the
increased wariness of Madame Blavatsky, and-placed it with the others as
being unmistakably her handiwork. I then submitted to him my
analysis of the document, and he kindly undertook to make a further
examination, expressing his confidence that he would prove to me.that
the conclusion which I had reached was erroneous. The result, how-
ever, of a prolonged comparison which he then made was that he frankly
confessed that my viewwas the correct one, saying that in the whole course
of his many years' experience as an expert, he had "never met a more
puzzling case," but that he was at last" thoroughly convinced that" the
K. H.(Z) "was written by Damodar in close imitation ofthe style adopteel
by Madame Blavatsky in tbe K. H. papers."
Specimens of the K. H. (Z) and the other K. H. letter with
which I have compared it are given in Plate II., and it may be
noticed that the K. H. characteristics in the former are almost
all rigidly of one variety, as we might expect to find in the work of a
copyist adhering to biB lesson.
I may here make brief reference to a long account of the professed
experiences of a native witness, which was sent to the headquarters of
the Theosophical Society while I was in India. Mr. Bhavruri Shankar
alleged that he was copying this account for me, and that he had
already copied a portion of it. At the time I thought it rather odd
that I never saw him actually engaged in the copying, and when after
the lapse of some days I found that the .document was not ready, I
doubted whether I should receive it at all. Eventually, however, I did
receive it, and with the explicit declaration of Mr. Bhavani Shankar
that it was his copy. The pointedness of his assurance that he had
made the copy caused me to wonder slightly why he was so anxious to
let me have what I should know was a specimen of his handwriting; and
the probable explanation did not occur to me till some time afterwards,
when I was struck by observing, in the document in question, some
peculiarities which I had noticed in the ordinary writing of Mr.
Damodar. I then made a careful examination of the document,
and found that it had every appearance of having been written by Mr.
Damodar, beginning with an elaborate though clumsy attempt at
disguise, and ending with what can hardly be called any disguise at all.
This incident has confirmed me in my opinion of the untrustworthiness.
v
Digitized by Google
298 J-llr. Eoagsol/', Report
of both Mr. Damodar ancl Mr. Bhavani Shankar. But Il.S to why Mr.
Bhavani Shankar should have made this attempt to deceivo me con-
cerning the characteristics of his handwriting, I have only a conjectural
Tiew.
My examination of another document which I saw in India con-
firmed me in my opinion of the untrustworthiness of Mr. Babajee D.
Nath. This document was written in green ink, and purported to be
the work of a Chela B. D. S. (Bhola. Deva Sarma). The disguise seemed
to me to be very puerile, most of the letters being of the copy-book
type; one or two of Mr. Babajee's habits being traceable throughout,
while the name Datll, which occurred in it, was almost a facsimile of a
"No.th" which I found in Mr. Babajee's ordinary signature.
The forged Hartmann document (see p. 280), which I believe to ha.ve
been forged by Madame Bla.vatsky, for the purpose of attributing it to
the Coulombs, was alleged by some Theosophists to have been the work of
the Coulombs, on the ground that the sentence, "Excu.se short letter. I
am writing in the dark," suggested a peculiarity of Madame Coulomb's,
that "writing in the dark" meant "writing in a hurry," and in proof
of this an old letter of Madame Coulomb's, in which she used a similar
. expression, was produced/rom the possession 0/Madam~ Blamtsky. I
saw this letter, and the expression there appeared to me to be meant
literally. The forged document may possibly have been intended to
bear traces of its forgery on the face of it, though of this I cannot be
sure. The imitation of Dr. Hartmann's characteristics is for the most
part exceedingly close, and on this point I must differ entirely from
Mr. Gribble,* who was evidently unfamiliar with Dr. Hartmann's
writing; moreover, bad spelling is noticeable in the document, and bad
spelling of a similar character is noticeable also in Dr. Hartmann's
writings; but Dr. Hartmann himself asserts that the letter is a forgery,
and the fact that it contains fourteen remakings of letters is enough to
confirm his statement. Although there were 14 remakings of letters,
there was only one eraBUre; this was in the k of the word dark. Dr.
Hartmann's k is peculiar; so is Madame Blavatsky's; but the
erasure had been so thoroughly made that I was unable to trace the
• II A Report of an Examination into the Blavataky Correspondence," &c.,
p. 7. Mr. Gribble says :_CI The only instance in wIdch any resemblance to
Dr. Hartmann's writing ill to be found is in the formation of the capital H," and
he mentions the capital letters A and T, and no others, ~ exhibiting
peculiarities which reminded him of "similar letters to be found in Madame B.'8
acknowledged writings." The A and T are, in my opinion, not more suggestive
of Madame Blavataky than the A and T of Dr. Hartmann's undoubted ordinary
writings. I should say that Mr. Gribble had the opportunity of examining the
document only very hastily during a short visit of an hour at the headquarters
of the Theosophical Society, when he examined other documents also; and this
DO d011bt accounts for the mistakes which he made in his examination of it.
Digitized by Google
On Plumomella connected with Tlteosop"g. 299
shape of the letter first formed. I compared the document with
writing of M. and lIadame Coulomb, and could not find in it any
traces of their handiwork; but comparing it with Madame' Blavatsky's
writings, I found several, and these instances formed the only diver-
gencies which I observed from Dr. Hartmann's formations. I attach
importance to the following :-
1. The figure" 8 " in the dating of the letter was not Dr. Hartmann's,
but Madame Blavatsky's.
2. A capital S was not Dr. Hartmann's, but Madame Blavatsky's.
3. A small z was very differe~t from Dr. Hartmann's, and was
almost a facsimile of the careful z in the K. H. writings, which also
shows exactly the same type as the careful z (very rare) in Madame
Blavatsky's ordinary writing, except that the former terminates in the
leftward curl, ",hile the latter terminates in the usual copy-book up-
ward stroke, trending to the right, cutting the lower part of the down-
stroke, and thus forming a closed loop with it.
4. Dr. Hartmann's small :I: is nearly of the common cory-book
type, the first half of the letter being formed like a reversed c; but it
seems that he habitually keeps his pen upon the paper until he has com-
pleted the letter, so that from the end of the first part of the letter a
diagonal stroke runs up to the beginning of the second part, between the
left side of which and the right side of the first part there remains a gap,
bridged by the cross stroke; at a first glance, the bridging stroke may
escape notice, and the :I: appear to be of the copy-book form. Now:l:
occurs three times in the forged Hartmann document. The first of these
is formed without the bridge, and the two strokes of the letters touch
each other. The second of them is formed like Dr. Hartmann's variety.
The third of them, however, which occurs in the last sentence of the
letter, 'IDaIlfir8tformed as Madame Blavaes",!!8 peculiar :1:, Dr.Hart1lUlnn'8
type beingformed over i' without any erfJ8Uri8 having been mark. On
dose inspection this was clear even to the naked eye, and examination
with a lens rendered it absolutely unmistakable.
Let us now consider the Maltatma M. endor8e1netU on the forged
Hartmann document.
1. In five of the seven r's the upper loop has unmistakably been
added by an after stroke, and apparently in the other two also. Very
heavily crowned r's are characteristic of the M. writing; but Madame
Blavatsky in her ordinary writing is frequently obliged to twirl the top
of the r with an afterstroke. (Mr. Gribble also regarded the r's of this
document as suggestive of Madame Blavatsky.)
2. The letter g in the words good and forgery exhibits the peculiar
left-gap stroke. The gap in the g of good has been partly filled by another
stroke, and this also occasionally but rarely happens both in Madame
v 2
Digitized by Google
300 HI'. Hodgson's Report
Blavatsky's ordinary writing and in the K. H. writing. (See the final
aandoin the Plate, Group B".)
3. The letter following the t in the word "enterprising" was
manifestly first made as Madame Blavatsky's left-gap stroke Q. The
word has apparently been first spelt "entaprising," and the second
part of the Q altered into an r by the addition of a very grotesque
loop, awkwardly placed in consequence of the little room left for it.
I suppose that Madame Blavatsky, having forged the document in
Dr. Hartmann's writing, and enclosed it in a "cover postmarked Madras,"
in which Colonel Olcott might receive it, afterwards obtained it again
surreptitiously (on finding, as I conjecture, that Colonel Olcott was not.
bringing forward the document and stating that he believed it to be I\-
forgery, as she had intended him to do), wrote the endorsement in het~
disguised M. handwriting and replaced it in Colonel Olcott's.
despatch.box. If she had little time at her disposal in which to write
the endorsement, this would account for the exceptionally glaring
indications of her handiwork which it contains.
Everyone will admit, I think, that the forged Hartmann document
must have originated either with the Coulombs or with Madame
Blavatsky. If the Coulombs were the authors, it is difficult to see
the point of the last sentence about "writing in the dark," and if the
phrase really illustrates a peculiarity of Madame Coulomb's, an old
letter of hers in the possession of Madame Blavatsky being adduced
as proof, the Coulombs would seem to have committed the very
curious mistake of inserting a statement for what looks like the specific
purpose of indicating themselves as the authors. That they should
not only have done this, but have also perpetrated the marvellously
subtle fraud of making several slips in the forged document which
should be characteristic of Madame Blavatsky's handiwork, is a sup-
position which, I think, appears in itself somewhat absurd, besides
being incompatible with the hypothesis which has been put forward
that they forged the letter in order to make mischief between the
founders of the Society and Dr. Hartmann and Mr. Lane-Fox; and
it is difficult to see what other motive they could possibly have had.
In short, the hypothesis that the Coulombs forged the document is
fraught with so many great difficulties that I do not imagine any
impartial reader will entertain it for a moment, or have any doubt
whatever that Madame Blavatsky wrote both the forged document
and the l\fahatma M. endorsement. Her action in this respect is in
harmony with her action throughout, and her object* is not far to
• I have already referred to Madame Coulomb's allegation that at the end of
April she wrote to Madame Blavatsky threatening to produce incriminating
letters written by the latter.
Digitized by Google
OIJ Phenomena connected foit" The080pk!l. 301
seek. The remarks in the ,ilfadras Christian College Magazw for
O~ber, 1884, p. 302, are entirely justified;-
" What the whole Pre88 and the Indian public has been quick enough to
see was not likely to be concealed from Madame BlavatAlky, viz., that the
only chance of her rehabilitation lies in Madame Coulomb's letters being
proved /oTgel·ies. How would a person of Madame BlavatAlky's genius be
likely to parry such a thrust 1 Not by a mere asaertion, but by a proof that
forgery is in the air-that attacks upon Theosophy are being made through
the forger's pen."
She therefore forged a IHtter which would indubitably be shown to
be a forgery, and which, at the same time, should contain evidence
apparently pointing to the Coulombs as the authors. This evidence
(the aforesaid phrase about "writing in the dark") appears to me to
point on the contrary to Madame Blavatsky herself as the author.
I have not had specimens of the M. writing which would
have enabled me to make such a full examination as I have made of
the K. H. writing, but I have no doubt that all of the few short
specimens which I have had the opportunity of carefully examining
may have been, and that some of them unquestionably were, written by
l\Iadame Blavatsky. It occurred to me that the first M. writing
may have been written by Madame Blavatsky with her left hand, a.nd
that she afterwards imitated with her right hand the characteristics
thus displayed; and on trying the experiment, making some of Madame
Blavatsky's characteristic strokes, I found that several of her peculiarities
took the roughened form which I have observed in some of the M.
writing. But whether all the M. writing was the handiwork of
l\Iadame Blavatsky, or whether some of the earliest specimens were
written by Babula under the guidance of Madame Blavatsky-as
Madame Coulomb asserts-:or whether some other person had some share
in their production, my limited acquaintance with the )ISS. has not
provided me with any means of determining. I observed in some
specimens which Mr. Ramaswamier allowed me to see, an instance of
Madame Blavatsky's characteristic Ie, with another Ie formed over it, an
instance of her terminal r, and an instance of her peculiar:c. In
perusing the Mahatma M. document which Mr. Damodar alleged had
fallen into his room at Ootacamund, on April 26th, 1884 (see p. 279),
I observed the following peculiarities ;-
1. There were a capital H and a capital P which were varieties of
certain Hand P types found both in the K. H. and in Madame
Blavatsky's ordinary writings.
2. Many of the lis exhibited a double stroke which, though not a
facsimile of Madame Blavatsky's, was very strongly suggestive of her
handiwork.
Digitized by Google
302 HI'. HOdg801l'/J Report
3. The a exhibits new peculiarities in the M. writing, but some
of the a's here showed the left-gap formation notwithstanding.
4. Several g's exhibited Madame Blavatsky's ordinary left-gap
stroke, and in one case the gap had been partially filled up, so that it
presented an eminently peculiar appearance, like that shown in the
tinal a and 0 of the Group B"'. (See Plate I.)
5. In two words the initial tl had been first made in the common
type, and had afterwarda been altered into the Greek form.
6. In at least four cases the top of the" had been added by an.
after stroke.
A complete examination of this document might have revealed more
resemblances to Madame Blavatsky's ordinary handwriting, but I think
those above enumerated are, considering the circumstances of its ap-
pearance, enough to justify me in concluding that Madame Blavatsky
was the writer.* The substance of the document is certainly much more
suggestive of the cunning combined with the inevitable ignorance of
Madame Blavatsky in Paris, than of any divine wisdom or knowledge
of the supposed II Mahatma M." in India. The K.H. (Y) of March 22nd,
and the Ootacamund M. letter of April 26th are not easily explained,
except on the view that Mr. Damodar wrote the former and Madame
Blavatsky the latter; for the documents absolutely contradict each
other. But they admit of a satisfactory explanation when we fimt
that on March 22nd Mr. Damodar was doing his best to avoid a.
rupture with the Coulombs, and that Madame Blavatsky, a week or so
later, ignorant of the change of position at headquarters, and ignorant
that Messrs. Lane-Fox and Damodar were at Ootacamund, while Dr.
Hartmann remained at Adyar, was preparing a Mahatma document
to serve as a guard against the disclosure of the trick apparatus, just
as she afterwards forged the Hartmann document to ward oft'the blow
which fell in the publication of her own incriminating letters in the
Madras Christian Col18g6 Magazine.
Even greater ignorance, or a curious standard of morality, is
displayed in another Mahatma document, written to Mr. Hume. It
contains a reference to a "young man" to whose rapid spiritual
development II K. H." enthusiastically draws Mr. Hume's attention.
After referring to the growth of this young man's" inner soul-power
and moral sense," &c., K. H. continues :-
" I have often watched that ailent yet ateady progreaa, and on that day
when he'was called to take note of the contents of your letter to Mr. Sinnett,
• The following paaaageoccurs in the document: "She hopea for more than
2,000 Rupees from thelU, if she helps them ruining or at least injuring the
Society," &c. l'tladame BIavatsky writes, in one of her undoubte.lletters: .. I
ask you to do thia to help me tracing by the emanations the persons," &c.
Digitized by Google
011 Phel/omena connected ,ritA Theosoplly. 303
concerning our humble selvea, and the Wllditioo" you imposed upon _1
have mYBelf leamed a 10880n. A BOul is being breathed into him, a new
Spirit let in, and, with every day he is advancing towards a Btate of higher
development. One fine morning the 'Soul' will find him; but, unlike your
EngliBh mYBtiCB &CroBB the great Sea, it will be under the guidance of the true
li'lling adept, not under tho Bpaamodic inspirations of hiB own untutored
, Buddhi,' known to you &B the 6th principle in man." *
Mr. H1ime appends a note that, at the very time the above passage
was written, the young man in question "was systematically cheating
and swindling me by false contracts, besides directly embezzling my
money."
How far the K. H. letters received by Mr. Sinnett, upon which
"Esoteric Buddhism" is confessedly founded, emanated from the brain
of Madame Blantsky, how far she was assisted in their production by
confederates, how much of their substance was plagiarised from other
writers, are queBtions which lie somewhat out.side my present province.
In the light of the incident mentioned by Mr. Hume, where matter
furnished by an able native had been used in the preparation of
l\lahatma documents-we may regard it as not improbable that Madame
Blavatsky has obtained some direct or indirect assistance from native
learning and native familiarity with Hindu Philosophy; and the
"Kiddie incident," where the charge of plagiarism has eventually
been admitted, and the fraud attributed to a Chela.-is enough to
show that "K. H." has not been above pilfering the very
language of a lecturer on Spiritualism. But apart altogether from
sllch incidents as these, we must remember that Madame Blavatsky
appeared in the last decade as the author of " Isis Unveiled." It is not
denied that a similarity of style exists between a number of tbe K. H.
documents and portions of "Isis Unveiled" ; the inference made by
those who accept tbe statements of Madame Blavatsky is that
she wrote neither; I think it much more probable that she wrote
both.
Madame Blavatsky at times writes very strange English, or rather
0. language which can hardly be ca.lled English. This, I believe, she
frequently does intentionally, and sometimes with good effect. Thus,
towards tbe close of a long passage in her ordinary handwriting, and in
ber good English style, she says that it was dictated to her by a "greasy
Tibetan," and in wbat follows immediately afterwards, which of course
we are to notice is her own, she lapses into a markedly poorer form
* It is noteworthy that in the same K. H. document the following passage
occurs: "Nor can I allow you to he under the misapprehension that any adept
ill unahle to read the hidden thoughtB of othel'8 ,,·ithout fil'8t mesmeriBing
them."
Digitized by Google
30"' JII". Hodg8o/l'8 Report
of utterance. I have no doubt that she was fully aware* of the
importance of convincing adherents like Mr. Sinnett that she was
unable to produce the K. H. writings, and that one of her devices
to this end was the speaking and writing of purposely deteriorated
English. Her best English style appears to me to be essentially like
that of the K. H. writings, especially in the cumbrous and wordy form
of sentence which so often appears, in the abundance of parenthetical
phrases and in the occasional use of almost outre metaphors.
There are, indeed, certain oddities in Madame Blavatsky's English
which are not feigned-in spelling, in the division of words at the end
of a line, and in grammatical structure; but I find that these occur in
the K. H. writings also; where the frequency of dashes, underlinings,
and expressions like "please," "permit me," &c., is further suggestive
of Madame Blavatsky's work. I admit that some of the quotations
which have been published by Mr. Sinnett, from the K. H. MSS.,
attain a standard of style and reflective thought which I should not
expect Madame Blavatsky to maintain continuously through a long
series of documents, and I am accordingly not surprised to learn from
!Ir. Hume, who received a large quantity of the K. H. MSS., and who
began the writing of "Esoteric Buddhism," that much of the K. H.
writing is considerably below the level of those fragments which have
been published, and that the task of eliminating the vast mass of
rubbish was exceedingly difficult. I conceive myself that it would be
impossible for the writer of the K. H. MSS. now in my possession to
substantiate any claim to a familiarity with the principles of either
Science or Philosophy, and-I see no reason why they should not have
been written by Madame Blavatsky herself, without any assistance
whatever. To speak about "a bacteria," !I.S K. H. does in one of these
documents, is to show a knowledge neither of Biology nor of Philology;
and to say, as K. H. does in another of these documents, "that man has
a better prospect for him after death than that of turning into carbolic
(sic) acid, water and ammonia" t shows a lamentable ignorance of the
constitution of the Rupa, the ordinary human organism, the first of
the "seven principles."
It would, however, be a tedious and a useless task to analyse these
K. H. documents at length, and I shall now simply give a few instances
of those points which admit of a brief illustration. I take the following
.. This appears, e.g., in the following sentence of hers in a letter to Mr.
Hume, of 1882: "You have either to show me as a champion liar, but ell/willg,
logical and 'Yith a most phenomenal memory (instead of my poor failing brains),
or admit the theory of the Brothers."
t This reminded me of a passage in the CQ1ltemporary Review for September,
ISi6, p. 545: "The man resolves into carbonic acid, water and ammonia, and
has no more personal future existence than a consumed candle."
OIJ Phenomena connected fcitn Tlle080phl/. 305
from the Koot Hoomi Lal SiIng: "Whatever helps restore" [= what-
,ever helps eo restore]. Also," You and your colleagues may help
furnish the materials." Similarly Madame Blavatsky writes, "to help
him publish." The Koot Boomi Lal Sing, as I have already men-
tioned, is quoted almost in its entirety by Mr. Sinnett, on pp. 85-95 of
4' The Occult World." But the reader will find that the word to is
inserted before its verb in Mr. Sinnett's version. I was certainly sur-
prised on finding this, as Mr. Sinnett had written (" The Occult
WorId," p. 69);-
"I shall, of COUl'88, throughout my quotationa from Koot Hoomi'a letters
leave out pauagea which, apecially addreaaed to myself, have no immediate
bearing on the public argument. The reader must be careful to remember,
however, as I now moat unequivocally affirm, that I shall in no case alt~1'
one ayllable of the paBll8g8s actually quoted. It is important to make this
declaration very emphatically, because the ¥lore my readers may be acquainted
with India, the le88 they will be willing to believe, except on the moatpositive
testimony, that the letters from Koot Hoomi, sa I now publiah them, have
been written by a native of India."
Yet on comparing the original document, Koot Hoomi Lal Sing,
with "The Occult World," I find that there are more than ~t'JJ differ-
ences between the two (excluding mistakes of apelling-1Ult". and
1'emarqmd-and excluding also omisaion of underlinings, changes of
punctuation, &c.). Many of these differences consist of words omitted
or 'inserted, others of words changed, and although some of these
differences may be resolved into misprints or mis-copies, by no
means all of them can be explained in this way. For example, in
the original document I read; "the difference between the modes of
physical (called exact often out of mere politeneu) and metaphysical
sciences" ; but in "The Ocoult World" (p. 88), politemll appears as
compliment. Again;" Education enthrones skeptioism, but imprisons
spiritualism "; spiritualism in "The Ocoult World" (p. 94) appears
as spirituality. Remarqued and politeness appear to me to be more
suggestive of Madame Blavatsky than of the K. H. desoribed to us,
whose peculiarities ought to be German rather than Frenoh;* and it is
curious that Madame Blavatsky, in a letter of last year to Mr. Myers,
should have drawn a contrast "between spiritualism and materialism,"
where spiritualism is olearly intended to bear the same meaning as in
the passage quoted from the K. H. document. I do not suppose that
Mr. Sinnett himself knew anything of these and other alterations, but
• Other mistakes suggesting that the writer wsa accustomed to Frenoh
may be found in different K. H. documents; for instance, mo-ntain for nunmtain,
profond for profound, vanted for oottnted. de/em6 for defence• .. you have to beat
your iron while it is y. !wt."
Digitized by Google
306 Hr. Hodg801l'8 Report
he is certainly chargeable with no ordinary negligence for not having
ascertained, aftet the emphatic and unequivocal declaration which
I have quoted, that no copyist or printer's devil or reader had
assumed the function of improving Koot Hoomi's English-unless,
indeed, we are to suppose that Koot Hoomi /,im(7)self corrected the
proof for the press, in which case ,we ought to have been told that
he did so, and how and when it was done. Such exceeding carelessness
on the pat"t of Mr. Sinnett bas destroyed the confidence which I
formerly had that his quotations from Koot Hoomi documents might
be regarded as accurately faithful reproductions of the originals.
The following short groups of peculiarities of spelling and mistakes
of idiom may be compared :-
KOOT RooM!. MADAD BUVATSKY.
Spelling.
your's, her's
fulfill, dispell
tbiefs
leasure
quarreling,mamhaling
alloted
in lotio
circumstancial
defense
&c.
your's
expell
thiefs
decea,-ed, beseached
quarreling, quarreled
cooly (for •coolly')
Jazzy, Jazziness
consciensciously, hypocricy
defense
&c.
DiMol~ oj 1Col·d. at the end oj a line.
incell8&D-tly, dirac-tly
un&-Cquainted
fun-etions
discer-ning, rea-ding, rea-dily
po-werleBB
atm08-phere
des-pite
corres-pondence
En-glisbman, En-glisb
miBundel'll-tood
&c.
neen-tly, hones-tly, perfec-tly
cba-nged
correc-tness
retur-ning, trea-ting, grea-test
po-wem
Beacon-sfields
&c.
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena co,mected tcitll Theosophy. 307
KOOT HOOMI. MADAXB BLAV..u'SKY.
Structtlre.
, I give you an ad,ice'
, who, ever since he is here, has been
influencing him'
, we mortals never have and will agree
on any subject entirely'
'one who understands tolerably well
Englisb'
, you felt impatient and believed
ha\ing reasons to complain'
•to take care of themselves and of
their here&fter the best they know
how ,_" the best she knew how'
•that the world will not believe in our
philosophy unless it is convinced
of it proceeding from reliable'
'there are thOl!e, who, rather than to
yield to the evidence of fact'
•in a direct courlle or along hundred of
side-furrow!! '
their active mentality pre\-enting
them to receive clcar outside im-
pressions'
'llrovided you consented to wait and
did not abuse of the situation'
'Immutable la\\"o,\ cannot arise since
theyare eternalanduncreated, pro-
1l8lIed in the Eternity and that God
himself-if such a thing existed-
could never have the power of
stopping them'
, So more the pity for him '
&c.
'to give as impartial an e\idence '.-
•offering advices '
'for 14 or ISyears that I &Ill "preaching
the Brothers" ,
, they have never and never will rush
into print'
'Olcott says you speak very well
English'
•had he but consented becoming l\
1'&8C&1'
•and left to do the best I knew how'
'there is not a tittle of doubt for it
being so'
'the chelas would rather be anyday
insulted themselves than to hear
insulted '
'the accursed lecture with hundred
others '
'the mediums reproached me witla
preventing by my presence the
" spirits" to come'
, I have never written anything a.ga.inst
you that I could fear of being
shown to you'
'since Eastern and Western ideas of
morality differ like red and blue
and that you. • • m&y appear
to them &8, and more immoral
perhaps than they do to you'
, So nlore the pity for those '
&C.
It may seem strange that K. H. should be induced by a II philo-
logical whim," to spell "skepticism" with a k ('lJid.e p. 271), and yet
make such mistakes in spelling and such remarkable divisions of words
as I have instanced above. And throughout the K. H. documents in
my hands, expressions abound which can hardly be termed felicitates,
Digitized by Google
~08 Mr. Hoag8on'8 Report
though they are certainly cuno.re, and which appear to me to be
-eminently Blavatskian.
What the .ethics of a real Mahatma would be we perhaps have no
means of judging, but those of MOOame Blavatsky's lb.hatmacertainly
are, in soine point., those which we should expect would commend
themselves to a person engaged in producing fraudulent phenomena.
There is evidence in on.e of the K. H. documents that K. H. actually
endeavoured to incite the recipient to what I think every honour-
able Englishman would regard as a falsehood. The moral is toler-
aLly obvious, and the reader will perhaps rather expect the advanced
Chelas of "Mahatmas" to be, by virtue of that very position,
untrustworthy individuals. That there are persons whose actions
are marked by the highest integrity, and who have devoutly
and sincerely believed themselves to be acting under the tutelage
of a "l\lahatma," I do not for a moment question; though there
an be little doubt that there are also instances where Madame
Blavatsky has endeavoured to persuade natives to pretend falsely
that they were Chelas, and in some cases, as I think I have shown,
has succeeded, but in other cases has failed. Mr. Hume has stated
to me his conviction, founded on their own confessions, that certain
natives hOO been instigated by Madame Blavatsky to fraudulent
assertion of their Chelaship, and to the conveyance of "Mahatma"
messages in the guise of Chelas; this would appear also from some
of the documents forwarded to me by Mr. Hume ; and, quite indepen-
dentlyof this evidence, I was assured by an educated native with whom
I had a personal interview, that Madame Blavatsky had used her
powers-not only of persuasioll, but of threatening-to induce him
to further her objects, as explained to him, and to play the rfjle of
a dawning Adept. It is, in short, quite certain that there are
natives who have charged Madame Blavatsky with inciting them to
the fraudulent personation of Chelas of "Mahatmas," and she seems
to have worked upon patriotic feeling for the purpose of securing
.heir assistance.
I have now dealt with the main points of the evidence for the
alleged marvellous phenomena in connection with the Theosophical
Society which were directly associated with my im'estigations in
India, and I regard the details which I have given as sufficient to
warrant the conclusion which I expressed at the beginning of my
Report, that these alleged marvellous phenomena have been fraudulent
throughout. The force of the evidence leading to this conclusion will
hardly be appreciated except by those who have followed the accounts
given in the Appendices, and it certainly cannot be conveyed in a
mere summary. Yet I think it well that the reader should be reminded
of the most important considerations which have arisen in the course
Digitized by Google
0,. PkenomellCl connected Itt'tll Tkeo8opl,y_ 309.
of the inquiry, and I shall therefore suggest these once more-in as
few words as possible. But, before doing so, there are one ,or twO'
collater~1 questions which demand some brief reference.
At thfl time of our First Report, it appeared to us a serious difficulty
in the way of adopting the hypothesis of fraud that we should have to-
suppose Mr. Damodar to have exchanged, within a comparatively short
time, the character of a confiding dupe for that of a thorough-going
conspirator. This difficulty was impressed upon us all the more·
stt'Ongly by the account of Mr. Damodar which we received from·
Colonel Olcott, who stated :- .
.. His father was a wealthy gentleman occupying a high position in the-
Government eecretariat at Bombay; and the son, besides the paternal
expectatiOnB, had, in his own right, about 50,000 or 60,000 rupees. The-
father at first gave his coneent to the BOn's breaking cute-a mOlt seriou
step in India.--so aB to take up our work. But lubBequently, on his death-
bed, his orthodox family influenced his mind, and he demanded that his BOn
Ihould revert to his CaBte, making the uaual degrading penance required in
luch C&B88. Mr. Damodar, however, refuaed, saying that he WaB fully
committed to the work, which he considered mOlt important for his country
and the world; and he ultimately relinquished his entire property, so that
he might be ablolutely free."
The impressiveness of this, however, was considerably reduced by
further investigation, which revealed that Colonel Olcott's statement
com-eyed utterly erroneous ideas concerning the actual facts of the
case. From evidence I obtained in Bombay from several witnesses.
6.nd from a. series of documents which I was allowed to peruse by
an uncle of Mr. Damodar, and which consisted partly of letters
wdtten by }lr. Damodar, it appeared that his father had been a.
member of the Theosophical Society, but that he had resigned all
connection with it in consequence of the conclusion he had reached that.
the founders of the Society were untrustworthy. It was also in
consequence of this conclusion that he so earnestly entreated his son
(not to !' revert to his caste," but) to give up his connection with
Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, or at least to live no longer in
the same house with them. It was, moreover, in consequence of the
opinion which prevailed among some of Mr. Damodar's acquaintances.
in Bomhay to the effect that Madame Blavatskyand Colonel Olcott
had sought to gain power over Mr. Damodar for the purpose of
ohtaining his money-that Mr. Damodar had expressed his desire to
relinquish his ·property. And, according to the provisions of his.
fa.ther's will, he may yet receh·e the property on certain conditions, of
which the primary one is the severance of his connection with the
Theosophical Society. I muat add that the correspondence to which
I refer, which lasted over some months, afforded ample evidence that
Digitized by Google
310 Mr. DOOg801"8 Report
)Ir. Damodar's father had been painfully impressed hy his want of
truthfulness and honourable dealing.
At the time when Mr. Damodar desired to give up all claims to the
property, he was, I think, not a confederate. When he first began to
suspect fraud, I have no means of ascertaining; but as regards the
transition from being a dupe to becoming himself a conspirator, there
is this to be said.-There can he little doubt that patriotic feeling-
which, I believe, has much more to do with the underworking of the
Theosophical Society than the followers of Madame Bla.vatsky in
England commonly imagine-was one of the strongest influences which
attrs.llwd him to the Society, and which afterwards kept him an active
worker in the movement. His bitter antipathy to the "conquering
race" was sufficiently obvious in those letters of his which I had the
opportunity of perusing. To this we must add the fact that he had
espoused the Theosophical cause and the claims of Madame Blavatsky
with a burning intensity of antagonism to those who alleged that these
claims rested on a foundation of dishonesty. Itwas not easy to confess
to the world that the flaming ardour which resisted the tender and wise
advice of his father, and perhaps was fed by the importunate cautions
and scoffings of his friends, was but the folly of an aspiring youth, who
,vas not quite clever enough for Madame Blavatsky. And, after all,
l1e might have the honour of posing as a Chela., with rapidly-developing
powers, and receiving reverence and glory, not only fl'om his native
associates, but from Englishmen themselves. In the face of such
considerations as these, the psychological revolution in which Mr.
Damodar was transformed from a dupe, capable of deceh'ing his father,
to an impostor in the supposed interests of his country, is perhaps not
very difficult to understand. There is no necessity for me to give all the
results of my inquiries concerning the personal charactel's and ante-
cedents of those persons whom I regard as confederates of Madame
Blavatsky. As Mr. Damodar is the only one of her followers who has
deprived himself of any substantial property by his action in connection
with the Theosophical Society, or who, in my opinion, can be said to
l1a.ve sacrificed his worldly prospects, I have thought it desirable to
draw special a.ttention to the circumstances under which the sacrifice
was made.
After reviewing the instances I have given of the unreliability of
Colonel Olcott's testimony, some readers may be inclined to think that
Colonel Olcott must himself have taken an active and deliberate part
in the fraud, and have been a partner with Madame Blava.tsky in the
conspiracy. Such, I must emphatically state, is not my own opinion,
though I should be unwilling to affirm that Colonel Olcott may not,
by ca.rrying out supposed injunctions of his "Mastel'," haT'e improperly
contributed, either by word or action, to the marvellousness of certain
Digitized by Google
On PlloJlomena connected fcith Tlte08opll!l. 311
phenomena. It is clear, for example, from (locuments in my posses-
sion, that the influence of "K. H." has been exerted unsuccessfully
in the case of another gentleman, fO&" the purpose of strengthening the
evidence for an alleged" occult" phenomenon, and I can well undel'lrtand
that Colonel Olcott may have been induced by the solemn asseverations
of his "l\Iaster" that certain events occurred, to remember incidents
which never happened a.t all; and how much may have been exacted
from his blind obedience it is impossible to determine. Further,
his capacity for estimating evidence, which could never have been very
great, was probably seriously injured before the outset of his Theoso-
phical career by his faith in Madame Blav&tsky, who herself regarded
him as the chief of those "domestic imbeciles" and "familiar muffs"
to whom she refers in her letters to Madame Coulomb; and writing
about him from America to a Hindu in Bombay, she characterised him
as a "psychologised baby," sa.ying that the Yankees thought themselves
very smart, and that Oolonel Olcott thought he was particularly smart,
even for a Yankee, but that he would have to get up much earlier in the
morning to be as smart as she was. His candour was shown by his
readiness in providing me with extracts from his own diary, and the
freedom with which he allowed me to inspect important document."I in
his possession; and he rendered me every assistance in his power
in the way of my acquiring the evidence of the native witnesses. Not
only so, but observing, as I thought, that Mr. Damodar was unduly
endeavouring to take part in my examination of a witness shortly after I
arrived in India, he desired me not to hesitate in taking the witnesses
apart for my private examination, and he made special arrangements
for my convenience. Not unmindful of the opportunities afforded me
for investigation by most of the Theosophists themselves, it is with all
the more regret that I now find myself expressing conclusions which
must give pain to so many of them. But Colonel Olcott himself would
be among the first to admit that the interests of truth must not be
stopped or stayed by any merely personal feelings, and although in a
letter to Madame Coulomb, he implied that his mind could not "be
unsettled by any trivial things "-such as, among others, the making
of trap-doors and other apparatus for trick-manifestations by Madame
Blavatsky-he wrote also :-
"I do flot think it right or fair that YOli should continue to be a member
of a Society which you thought flourishing by the aid of trickery and false
representation. If I thought my Society th«t I would leave it, and wash my
hands of it for ever."
This, however, is a course which probably Colonel Olcott's mind
will never be "unsettled" enough to take, and he still apparently
continues to believe in the genuineness of the alleged occultphenomena.
Digitized by Google
312 Nr. Hodg8on's Report
CONCLUSION.
I may now draw attention to the main points involved in the fore-
going inquiry.
In the first place, a large number of letters produced by M. and
Madame Coulomb, formerly Librarian and Assistant Corresponding-
Secretary respectively of the Theosophical Society, were, in the opinion-
of the best expens in handwriting, written by Madame Blavatsky. These-
letters, which extend over the years 1880-1883 inclusive, and some of
which were published in the MadrtJIJ Christian College Magazine fol"
September, 1884, prove that Madame Blavatsky has been engaged in.
the production of a varied and long-continued series of fraudulent
phenomena, in which she has been assisted by the Coulombs. The
circumstantial evidence which I was able to obtain concerning the-
incidents referred to in these letters, corroborates the judgment of the
experts in handwriting.
In the second place, apart altogether from either these letters or the
statements of the Coulombs, who themselves allege that they were
confederates of Madame Bla.vatsky, it appears from my own inquiries
concerning the existence and the powers of the supposed Adepts or
Malwtmas, and the marvellous phenomena. a.1leged to have occurred in
connection with the Theosophical Society,
1. Tha.t the primary witnesses to the existence of a Brother-
hood with occult powers,-viz., Madame Blavatsky, Mr_
Damodar K. Mavalankar, Mr. Bhavani Shankar, and Mr.
Baba.jee D. Nath,- have in other matters deliberately made
statements which they must have known to be false, and that
therefore their asst'Irtions cannot establish the existence of tlla-
Brotherhood in question.
2. That the comparison of handwritings further tends to show that
Koot Hoomi La! Sing and Mahatma. Morya are fictitious
personages, and that most of tho documents purporting to
have emanated from these "personages," and especially from
" K. H." (Koot Hoomi Lal Sing), are in the disguised hand-
writing of Madame Blava.tsky herself, who originated the
style of the K. H. handwriting; and that some of the
K. H. writing is the handiwork of Mr. Damodar in
imitation of the writing developed by Madame Bla.vatsky.
3. That in no single phenomenon which came within the scope
of my investigation in Indio., was the evidence such as would
entitle it to be regarded as genuine, the witnesses for the most
part being exceedingly inaccurate in observation or memory,
and having neglected to exercise due care for the exclusion of
fraud; while in the case of some of the witnesses there h8.8
been much conscious exaggeration and culpable misstatement.
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena connected fcitll Theosopll!l. 313
4. Tbat not only was the evidence insufficient to establish the
genuineness of the a.lleged marvels, but that evidence furnished
partly by my own inspection, and partly by a large number of
witnesses, most of them Theosophists, concerning the structure,
position, and environment of the Shrine, concerning "Mahat-
rna" communications received independently of the Shrine,
and concerning various other incidents, including many of the
phenomena mentioned in "The Occult World," besides the
numerous additional suspicious circumstances which I have
noted in the course of dealing in detail with the cases con-
sidered, renders the conclusion unavoidable that the pheno-
mena in question were actually due to fraudulent arrange-
ment.
The question whicb will now inevitably arise is-what has induced
Madame Blavatsky to live so many laborious days in such a fantastic
work of imposture' And although I conceive that my instructions did
not require me to make this particular 'luestion a province of my
investigation, and to explore the hidden motives of Madame Blavatsky,
I should consider this Report to be incomplete unless I suggest what I
myself believe to be an adequate explanation of her ten years' toil on be-
half of the Theosophical Society. It may be supposed by some who are
unfamiliar with her deficiencies and capacities that the Theosophical
Society is but the a.loe-blossom of a woman's monomania, and that the
strange, wild, passionate, unconventional Madame Blavatsky has been
"finding her epos" in the establishment of some incipient world-
religion. But a closer knowledge of her character would show such a
supposition to be quite untenable; not to speak of the positive
qualities which she habitually manifested, there are certain varieties of
personal sacrifice and religious aspiration, the absence of which from
Madame Blavatsky's conduct would alone suffice to remove her ineffably
far from the St. Theresa type.
As Madame Blavatsky in propria p~rl101U2, she can urge her
followers to fraudulent impersonations; under the cloak of Koot
Hoomi she can incite "her" Chelas to dishonourable statements; and as
an acc.omplished forger of other people's handwriting, she can strive to
save berself by blackening the reputation of her enemies. She is,
indeed, a rare psychological study, almost as rare as a "Mahatma";
she was terrible exceedingly when she' expressed her overpowering
thought that perhaps her "twenty years'" work might be spoiled
through Madame Coulomb; and she developed a unique resentment
for the" spiritualistic mediums," whose trickeries, she said, she" could
so easily expose," but who continued to draw their disciples, while
her own more guarded and elaborate scheme was in danger of being
turned inside out. Yet I must confess that the problem of her motives,
x
Digitized by Google
314 MI'. Hodgson's Report
when I found myself being forced to the conclusion that her
claims and her phenomena were fraudulent, caused me no ,little
perplexity.
It appeared to me that, even should the assertions of Theosophists
that their Society has been partly dependent upon the gifts of Madame
Blavatsky prove to be the reverse of truth, the sordid motive of
pecuniary gain would be a solution of the problem still less satisfactory
than the hypothesis of religious mania.. More might be said in support
of the supposition that a morbid yearning for notoriety was the
dominsnt emotion which has stimulated and sustained her energetic
efforts in the singular channel which they have so long pursued. But
even this hypothesis I was unable to adopt, and reconcile with my
understanding of her character.
At last a casual conversation opened my eyes. I had taken no
interest in Central Asian perplexities, was entirely unaware of the
alleged capacities of Russian intrigue, and had put aside as unworthy
of consideration the idea-which for some time had currency in India-
that the objects of the Theosophical Society were political, and that
Madame Blavatsky was a "Russian spy." But a conversation with
Madame Blavatsky, which arose out of her sudden and curious
excitement at the news of the recent Russian movement upon the
Afghan frontier, compelled me to ask myself seriously whether it was
not possible that the task which she had set herself to perform in
India was to foster and foment as widely as possible among the
natives a disaffection towards British rule.* Madame Blavatsky's
momentary emotional betrayal of her sympathies in the onset
of her excitement was not rendered less significant by the
too strongly-impressed "afterstroke" of a quite uncalled-for vitupera.-
tion of the Russians, who, she said, "would be the death-
blow of the Society if they got into India." That she was ever seven
years in Thibet there is much reason for disbelieving. In a letter she
wrote to a Hindu from America, she professed no more than that she
had acquired some occult knowledge from some wandering Siberian
Shamans, which, being interpreted, probably means, if her statement
has any foundation of truth at all, that she learnt their conjuring
performances. According to her own account, in one of the Blavatsky-
Coulomb letters, it appears that before her acquaintance with Madame
Coulomb at Cairo, in 1872, she had been filling a page which she wishes
• There is a special rule in the Society providing for secret membel'l!hiJl.
Madame Blavatsky's influence is felt, moreover, far beyond the limits of tbe
Society. When alle returned to India, at tbe end of last year, an addre88 of
sympathy was presented to her by a large body of native students of Madras,
of whom, apparently, only two or tbree were Theosopbists.
Digitized by Google
On Pllellomena cOlUlected ,ritl, Theosoph!l. 315
to be "torn out of the book "* of her life. This part of her history
does not at present concern us, except that it proves the stary of her
Thibetan experiences to be fabulous. But the letter also refers to her
sojourn at Cairo and her later adventures, and it appears that she and
a certain Madame Sebire bad eatablished a Society in Cairo, which was
evidently" spiritualistic," and which failed; that shortly after parting
with Madame Coulomb in Cairo, she went to Odessa, taking Madame
Sebire, who dragged her into an enterprise of "making some extra-
ordinary inks," which proved a losing speculation; that from Odessa
she proceeded to India, where "she remained over eight months, and
then returning by Odessa to Europe, went to Paris, and thence
proceeded to America," where the Theosophical Society was established.
The same letter contains the following explanation to Madame
Coulomb, clearly in order that the latter might understand that the
new Society was on a different basis from that which Madame Blavatsky
had countenanced, in 1872, in Egypt.
"We believe in nothing 81tpernat1.£'ral, and discard eyery miracle--those
of the Jewish Bible especially. But we are believers in and students of
phenomena, though we do not attribute every manifestation to 'spirits' of
disembodied people sololy, for we have found out that the spil"it of the livillg
fllan was far more powerful than the spirit of a dead person. We have
quite a number of members the080phistS in Ceylon among the Buddhist
priests and others.
" How far this agrees with your present ideas I do not know.. But I hope
you will answer me frankly, dear Mrs. Coulomb, and say what you think of
it. And thus we may be able to elucidate more than one mystery before we
meot each other again."
It seems, then, that Madame Blavatsky, a. Russian lady, the
daughter of Colonel Hahn (of the Russian Horse Artillery), and
quondam widow of General Blavatsky (Governor during the Crimean
'Va.r, and for many years, of Erivan ill Armenia), assisted in starting
a. spiritualistic Society in Egypt, which failed; that she afterwards
spent eight months in India., and' then. proceeded to America. for wha.t
*Tllat thilllife-page was partly known to)Iadame Coulomb,and thaUIadame
Blavatsky feared her in consequence, is bome out by the fact that, in a dispute
which afOlle, in 1880, while Madame Blavo.tsky was at Ce~lon, between Madame
('oulomb andanothermember of the Society at its headquarters, then in Bombay,
lIatlame Coulomb boasted of her power. Her boast was apparently jUlltified
upon lIadame Blavatsky's return. Madame Coulomb was supported by Madame
ntavataky, and therefore also by Colonel Olcott, and the dispute resulted in the
withdrawal from the Society of some of the most inJIuentialmembers at Bombay.
who regarded the action taken in the matter by the founders as wanting in
tltraighUorwal'tlnlll'lI. I have had personal intef\ieW8 with 80me of these ex-
membefll, who consider that the recent exposures of tile Coulombs lIave thrown
lIlucllligllt on tile formerly mysterious behaviour of Madame Bla"atl!ky and
lladame Coulomb in connection with the Bombay episode.
x 2
Digitized by Google
316 MI'. Hodgson" Report
would appear to have been the express purpose of becoming an
American citizen, II for the sake of greater protection that the citizen-
ship of this free country a.fI'ords." The fact, moreover, that she was
an American citizen was urged on her behalf when, upon her arrival
in India, she was for some time subjected to the iiurveilla.nce of the
Indian Government as being possibly a Russian agent. She apparently
made the mistake in the first instance, of adopting CI an attitude of
obtrusive sympathy with the natives of the soil as compared with the
Europea.ns," as Mr. Sinnett tells us (" The Occult World," p. 25) j but
ahe soon remedied this error by obtaining the public adhesion to her
following of such men as Mr. A. 0, Hume (see p. 273) and Mr. Sinnett.
And without attempting to show in detail how strongly the patriotic
feeling of the natives has been enlisted in connection with the
Theosophical Society, or how well the procedure of Madame
B~vatsky may be shown to comport with the view that her ultimate
object has been the ful'therance of Russian interests, I may quote
several passages which, I think, suggest meanings which Madame
Blavatsky would hardly dare to blazon on the banner of the Theosophical
Society. Thus Colonel Olcott wrote, and apparently italicised the
sentence, in a letter from New York to a Hindu, in 18i8:-
"Whik 100 lmlX! flO political duigra8, yo" una need no hiut to tmderlltatad
that our 8!Jmpatllie8 are tL-ith all tllollt tollo are deprired of the rigJlt ofgotremitl9
their Otol~ lands for themBelves. I fleed say no more."
1t-Iadame Blavatsky wrote to the same person :-
" Is our friend a Sikh 1 If 80, the fact that he ahould be, as you say,
• very much pleased to learn the object of our Society' is not at all strange.
For bis ancestors bave for centuries been-until their eft'orts were pa.ralyaed
by British domination, that curse of every land it fastens itself upon-
battling for the divine trutha against external theologies. My question may
appear a foolish one-yet I have more than one reason for asking it. You
call him a Sirdar-therefore he must be a descendant of one of the Sirdara
of the twelve mizalB, which were abolish8d by the English to suit their con-
venience- since he is of Amritair in t,he Punjab 1 Are you personally
acquainted with any descendant of Runjeet Singh, who died in 1839, or do
you know of any who are 1 You will understand, without any explanation
from me, how important it is for us, to establish relationa with some Sikhs,
whose ancestora before them have been for centuries teaching the great
• Brotherhood of Humanity '-precisely the doctline we teach. .. .. ..
.. As for the future • Fellows' of our Indian Branch, 11a\ve your eyes upon
the chance of fishing out of the great ocean of Hindu hatred for Christian
missionaries some of those big fiah you call Rajahs, and whales known a.a
Maharajahs. Could you not hook out for your Bombay Branch either
Gwalior (Scindia) or the Holkar of Indore-those moat faithful and loyal
friends of the British (1). The young Gwikovar is unfortunately scarcely
weaned as yet, and therefore not elligible for fellowship."
Digitized by Google
0" PIl8110mena connected v:itl, TIl808oplt!l. 317
The note of interrogation after the word "British" is Madame
Blavatsky's. The above passages are from documents which came into
my hands quite independently of the Coulombs. Indeed, I am not
aware that the Coulombs even know of their existence. The
following passage is from a fragmentary script which forms one of
the Blavatsky-Coulomb documents; on one side of the paper are written
a few broken lines in Russian, the full significance of which is dubious
without their context, and on the other side are written these words :-
military men, more than any other, must remember that tile approachlng
act of the Eaatem dra.ma is to be the last and the decish'e one. That it will
require all our efforts, every sacrifice on our part, and rerluires far more care-
ful preparations in every direction than did the last war. They must re-
member, that to sit idle now, when every one has to be busily preparing, is
the highest of crimes, a treason to if their country and their Czar."
" He who hath ears let him.
(A facsimile of the manuscript of this passage is given in Plate I.)
While I was in India Madame Blavatsky obtained a partial knowledge
of the substance of this document (which I had no permission at the
time either to show to her or to publish), and she said that it was
probably a portion of a translation which she had made from a Russian
work, and was not her original composition. Be this as it may, I
cannot profess myself, after my personal experiences of Madame
Bla.vatsky, to feel much doubt that her real object has been the
furtherance of Russian interests. But although I have felt bound to
refer to my own view on this point, I suggest it here only
as a supposition which appears best to cover the known incidents
of her career during the past 13 or 14 years. That she is a
remarkably able woman will scarcely be questioned by any save
those of her followers whose very infatuation of beliE'f in her "occult
relations" is perhaps the most conspicuous proof of that ability
which they deny; and it would be no venturesome prognostication to
say that, in spite of recent exposures, she will still retain a goodly
gathering of disciples on whom she may continue to inculcate the ethics
of a profound obedience to the behests of imaginary Mahatmas. The
resources of Madame Blavatsky are great; and by the means of forged
letters, fraudulent statements of Ohelas, and other false evidence,
together with the hypothesis of Black Magicians, she may yet do much
in the future for the benefit of human credulity. But acting in accord-
ance with the principles upon which our Society has proceeded, I must
exp~ my unqualified opinion that no genuine psychical phenomena
whatever will be found among the pseudo-mysteries of the Russian lady
alias Koot Hoomi Lal Sing alias Mahatma Morya alias Madame
Blavatsky.
* The letters "Ru" cro!!sed out in this place may be observed in the
facsimile in Plate I.
Digitized by Google
318 Appendict's to M". Hodgsoll's Report
APPENDIX I.
THE SASSOON TELEGRAM (ride p. UiJ. ct-c.
Some of the details which follow, and which seM'e to explain the
extract quoted on p. 21I, I have learnt from the oral statements of
Messrs. A. D. and M. D. Ezekiel, and the written statements of Mr.
Khandalvala shown to me by Dr. Hartmann.
Madame Blavatsky, on her way from Bombay to Madras, in Octo-
ber, 1883, stayed at Poona several days at the house of Mr. N. D.
Khandalvala, a member of the Theosophical Society. On October 23rd
she dined at the house of Mr. Jacob Sassoon, who was desirous of seeing
some" phenomenon." Madame Blayatsky despatched the letter from
which the extract is taken, to Madame Coulomb on the moming
of the 24th. While driving with Mr. A. D. Ezekiel on the afternoon of
the 24th, she expressed her desire to call upon Mr. Bassoon. Probably she
intended, when she wrote to Madame Coulomb, to arrange for a con-
versation with Mr. Bassoon on the afternoon of the 26th, when the sub-
ject of the telegram would be mentioned-only, of course, after much
entreaty by 1tIr. Bassoon for some phenomenon j but, finding that llr.
Bassoon purposed leaving Poona on the 25th, she was compelled, if she
was to impress him at all, to take the needful action earlier than she
bad anticipated. On this afternoon, then, of tbe 24th, after refusing
to show Mr. Bassoon any phenomena, she professed, by some"occult"
mental process, to get the opinion of Ramalinga's Master j but, having
imperfectly heard his answer, she wished mentally, as she said, that
Ramalinga should communicate to her the words in writing, that she
might satisfy herself that she had heard aright. She wrote down at the
time the words she expected to receive, and said that Ramalinga would
send a telegram to her at once, or that she might not receive it tillaftel"
a day or two. The telegram did not arrive till the 26th. Madame
Blavatsky's explanation of the delay is that Ramalinga sent on the
words late to 1\11'. Babajee D. Nath, who copied them and gave them to
Madame Coulomb to be sent by telegram. This explanation was given
to me by Madame Blavatsky, and appears also in the letter professedly
written by her on October 26th to Colonel Olcott. Madame Blavatsky
was too shrewd openly to lay stress upon the telegram, but I have no
doubt, after conversations with Messrs. A. D. and M. D. Ezekiel,who were
present at Mr. Bassoon's on the 24th, and at Madame Blavatsky's receipt
of the telegram on the 26th, that she wished the occurrence to
be regarded as "phenomenal," notwithstanding Mr. A. D. Ezekiel's
statement to the contrary in his letter to the TinWl ofI1ldia.
It may be pointed out in passing that Mr. Babajee D. Nath lends
his sanction to 1tIadame Blavatsky's explanation, and thus, the
Digitized by Google
01' Phenomena com,ected fcifh Tlteosopl'l/. 319
.
Blavatsky-Ooulomb letters being genuine, implicates himself in the
fraud.
The statement made by Madame Blavatsky when the September
number of the Cltristian College Hagazine appeared in Europe is as
follows :-
Tho third letter, supposed to be written lrom Poona, is an entire
fabrication. I remember tho letter I wrote to her from Poona. It asked
her to send me immediately the telegram contained in a note from Ramalinga
if he brought or sent her one. I wrote to Colonel Olcott about the experi-
ment. He thinks he can find my letwr at Madras. I hope to either get
back Ramalinga's note to me or obtain a statement of the whole matterfrom
him. How could 1 make a mistake in writing, however hurriedly, about
the name of one of my best friends? The forgers make me addre88 him-
"care of H. Khandalawalla "-when there is no such man. The real name
is N. D. Khandalawalla. .
Now, in the first place, the H originally printed in the Christian
College Magazine was a misprint or a miscopy for the N in the
original document.
As for the letter supposed to have been written to Oolonel Olcott,
it proves nothing, even were it written at the time it professes to have
been written, viz., October 26th, 1883. Colonel Olcott alleges that he
found this letter among his papers at Madras on his return thither at
the end of last year, though he was unable to tell me how, when, or
where he had originally received it. I was afterwards informed by Mr.
Damodar that Madame Blavatsky had sent it through him to Colonel
Olcott, whom he was accompanying on his tour in 1883. My opinion
is tllat this letter, which was shown to me, is e:x; post jacto, and
was not written earlier than towards the end of last year. There
are two statements in the letter which appear to me to point to
its having been written at the later date. One of these is Madame
Blavatsky's expression of her deep distrus~ of the Coulombs; the
other is the following :-Madame Blavatsky, after writing that
Ramalinga objected to give the words to :Madame Coulomb, and gave
them to Babajee, who gave them to lfadame Coulomb to be sent as a
telegram, continues: "I received the telegram to-day, but as it said,
C Master hasjust heard your conversation '-when it was not 'just now'
but yesterday that the conversation took place-it was a glorious
Jailure /" Now the letter is dated October 26th, therefore" y{lSterday"
would be Ootober 25th. But the conversation took place on Ootober
24th. If the letter was written a year after the events, the mistake is
intelligible enough. It was probably concocted after the appearance of
the Christian College Magazine in Eul'ope, and then-if we are to regard
Colonel Olcott as a dupe in the matter-sent to Mr. Damodar for
insertion among Colonel Olcott's papers.
Digitized by Google
820 Appeudiccs to MI'. Hodgson's Beport
I have also seen the letter alleged to ha,;e been written by
Ramalinga at the time, and it appeared to me to be written, in part at
least, in the disguised hand of Madame Blavatsky. It is curious, too,
that in this letter Rama.tinga. is represented as expressing a great dread
of Madame Coulomb; and I may say here tha.t my inquiries have not
enabled me to discover that Mr. Ramalinga Deb's existence has ever
been other than imaginary.
But a more serious flaw in the attempted explanation by Madame
Blavatsky yet remains. Messrs. Khandalvala and Ezekiel main-
tain that Madame Blavatsky could not have written to Madame
Coulomb on the 24th after the conversation took place at lIr.
Bassoon's in time for her letter to reach Madame Coulomb on the'
26th. Bhe declo.res in her statement that she asked Madame Coulomb
to send her "immediately the telegram contained in a note from
Ramalinga. if he brought or sent her one," and from her sup-
posed letter to Colonel Olcott it appears that this expected telegram
related to the Bassoon conversation. Hence this alleged request must
have been made before the aforesaid conversation occurred; and it is
apparently not denied by Madame Blavatsky that she did write to
Madanae Coulomb on the lIuwning of the 24th. On Madame Blavatsky's
own showing, therefore-if Messrs. Ezekiel and Khandalva.la are right
concerning the time of the conversation and the subsequent events
which prevented her afterwards writing a letter-a specific pre-arrange-
ment must have been made by her for a conversation, the whole point
of which was that its subject should have arisen extempore.
I may here notice some of Madame Blavatsky's allegations concerning
other extracts which I have quoted. These allegations, among others, were
published in a pamphlet issued in 1884, by the Council of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society. AgaiU8t extract (9), p. 213, she said:
" There is no 'Maharajah of Lahore,' hence I could not have spoken of such
a person, nor have been attempting mock phenomena for his deception." I
do not suppose that anyone who is familiar with Madame Blavatsky would
maintain that she could not have written le8 Maharajah de Lahore u" de
Benaru simply because there was no Maharajah of Lahore but only of
Benares.
Concerning extract (7), p. 213, Madame Blavatsky said: "All depends
upon knowing who is ' Christopholo '-a little ridiculous figure ill rags, about
three inches high ; she wrote to say it had accidentally been destroyed. She
joked over it, and I too." In reference to another extract (H)-where
" Christofolo" occurred, she said: '" Christopholo ' was a ruune by which
she [Madame Coulomb] called an absurd little figure, or image of hers. She
gave nicknames to everything." And in B. Replies Bhe wrote a propo. of
extract (7) (which occurs at the end of a letter about her intended movements
for the next few months, and other practical matters), "I deny having
written any such thing on that same letter. I remember her telling mo in a
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena connected trith 1'Mo8op"lI. 321
letter her magic Christopholo 100 melted in the sun, and I may have answered .
her BOmething to that effect. But that after the serious letter that precedes
I should write such oo.A is impoBBible, not ill mYlltyle at all."
Concerning extract (13), p. 215, she wrote : .. I could never, in writing to
her who saw the man every day, use all his names and titles. I should
simply have said, 'Dewan Bahadur,' withl\ut adding 'Rajanath Rao, the
President of the Society,' as if introducing to her one she did not know.
The whole name is evidently put in now to make it clear who is meant." Now
I think. it is probably true that Madame Blavatsky would not usually write
the full name and titles of Mr. Ragoonath Rao, and I account for her having
written them in the present case by supposing that she had just written
them in the K. H. hand on the envelope of the Mahatma document
she had prepared, and that they were consequently running in her mind.
APPENDIX II..
THE ADYAR SAUCER (lee p. 118).
The subjoined account is that of l\:fajor-General Morgan himself,*
who thinks it sufficiently proves that Madame Blavatsky could not
have written letter No.4 (p. 212)! It should be compared with his
earlier accoWlt, quoted on p. 218.
In the month of August, 1883, I was obliged to go to Madras on
busineBB entirely unconnected with Adyar aft'airs. Madame Blavatsky was
then staying in my hOU4C, and urged me to stay at the Adyar during my visit
to Madras. This I declined, as the place was too flU" from my busineBB. She
then advised me to see the picture of the Mahatma in the Shrine, as it was a
very peculiar work. I replied that I should make a point of going to see the
picture, but the day was not mentioned. Two or three days after my arrival
at Madras I went to visit the headquarters, and found that the woman
Coulomb was out, and was requested by Damodar to await her return. She
came in about one hour, baving been out shopping in Madras. On my
mentioning the purpose for which I had come, she took me upstairs, and,
instead of going through Madame Blavatsky's room, we went round outside
to the Occult Room,as she stated that the rooms of Madame were locked and
the doors blocked up with furniture. On entering the room she hurriedly
approached the Shrine or cupboard, and quickly opeued the double doors;
as she did BO, a china saucer, which appeared to have been placed leaning
against the door, fell down on the chwl&m floor, and was broken to pieces.
On this she exhibited great conatemation, exclaiming that it was a much
cherished article of Madame'a, and ahe did not know what she ahould do.
She and her husband, who had come with ua, picked up the piecea. She then
tied them up in a cloth and replaced them in the Shrine, in the ailver bowl,
not behind it, the doors were ahut, and Damodar took up his positioll on a
chair right in front of the Shrine and only a few feet distant from it; he aat
* See Reply by H. R. Morgan, Major·General,)ladraB Army (retired), to a
Report of an Examination into the BlavatBky Correapondence, by J. D. B.
Gribble, M.C.S. (retired).
Digitized by Google
322 .Appendice8 to Mr. Hodg8ou'8 RejJort
intently regarding the Shrine and in a liatening attitude. I Wall not then
aware, as I am now, of the fact that the astral electric current causes a sound
exactly like that of the ordinary telegraph to be distinctly heard in the
Shrine; unaware of this, I resumed conversation with the Coulombs regard-
ing the accidellt, when I remarked that it would be well if he gotsome mastic
or glue and tried to put the pieces together. On my saying this he started
to get some, which he said he had in his bungalow, situated about 100 yards
from the house, and I, turning to his wife, remarked, .. If tho matter is of
sufficient importance the Mahatmas could cause its repair, if not you must
do the best you can." Hardly had I uttered this,*when Damodar said,
.. There is a message," and he immediately opened the door of the Shrine and
took down the silver bowl (in which the letters are generally found), and sure
enough there was a note, which on opening contained the following lines :-
"To the small audience present as witnesses. Now Madame Coulomb
has occasion to assure herself that the devil is neither as black nor as wicked
as he is generslly represented. The mischief is easily repaired.-K.H."
We then opened the cloth containing the broken saucer, found it intact and
whole! Threet minutes had not elapsed since I had suggested the glue should
be procured! and shortly after Coulomb returned with the glue in his
hand. If he could have gone all round the upper roollll, got behind the
Shrine, removed the broken saucer, tied up the parcel, having placed a
whole one in its stead, and written the note regarding the repair of the
saucer (my remark about which he had not heard), then I say his feat rivalled
that of the Masters! When I spoke to tho woman about the wonde11ul
manner in which the saucer had been restored, she replied, "It must bo the
work of the devil." Here is her note on tho subject, written to Madame
Blavatsky, then in Ootacamund. The printer's devil has left out a whole
line in the letter, which makes nonsense of it, both in Dr. Hartmann's
pamphlet and in the copies I have seen (taken from this) elsewhere. Below
I give a correct copy.
ADUlt, 13tl~ Attgust, 1883.
My DEAR FRIJ:ND,
I "erily believe I shall go silly if I stay with you. Now let me tell
you what has happened. On my arrival home I found General Morgan
sitting in that beautiful office of ours, talking with Damodar and M. Coulomb.
After exchanging a few words, I asked whether he would wish to see the
" Shrine," and on his answering in the affirmative we went upstairs, passing
on the outside, on account of the furniture of your sitting-room being heaped
up to block the doors and prevent thieves breaking in.
• In the earlier account General Morgan says: .. Fh'e minutes had scarcely
elapsed after this remark." This five ",inlites exhibits here a decided tendency
to approximate to nothing.-R.H.
t According to the earlier account this interval was considerably longer,
being five miuutes, together with an uncertain interval spent partly in con-
versation, partly in reading the note, &c. But more surprising still
than the inconsistencies between General Morgan's two accounts, is the
opinion which he apparently holds, that if the phenomenon was fraudulent
1\1. Coulomb himself must have written the Koot Hoomi note,-and must have
written it, moreover, in the very inten'al which has tllus dwindled !-R.H.
Digitized by Google
0" Phenomena connected teit/, TIle08opity. 323
The General found the portraits admirable, but I wish I had never gone
up, because, on my opening the "Shrine," I, Madame Coulomb, who never
cares either to see or to have anything to do in these matters, as you well
know, must needs go and open the Shrine, and see before her eyes, and
through her fingers pass; the pretty saucer you 80 much cared for.
U fell down and broke in 20 pieces. Damodar looked at me as much as to
say, .. Well, you are a fine guardian." I, trying to conceal my 8Orrow on
account of General Morgan's presence, took up the debria of the cup, and
put them in a piece of cloth which I tied up, and placed it; behin.d the silver
bowl. On second consideration I thought I had better take it down, lest
80nl.ll O1l.1l ahould throw it ooum again alld red1lu it into po1oder this time. So
I asked Damodar to reach it for me, and to our unutterable surprise the cup
was as perfect as though it had never been broken, and more, there was the
enclosed note :-
[Then follows the note already quoted from the Master], to which the
General added the few lines and signed as an eye-witneu.
Now make what you like of this. I say you h&ve dealings with uZcl Nick.
Yours ever a.fi'ectionate1y,
E. COULOMB.*
There is a discrepancy between my account and that contained in the
above letter, as to why the doors of the Shrine were opened the second time;
this was done by Damodar lIf lrlmself and not by the Coulombs' desire. I
may here observe that on this occasion everything done by the Coulombs
was done mechanically, as if impelled to do certain ~ings, and as directed
by me. For instance it was on my suggestion Coulomb went for the glue.
I remarked that the Masters could repair the saucer if they chose, and it was
Damodar who said .. there was a meBBage," and opened the Shrine
accordingly.
The man Coulomb's &B8ertion, that the saucer was put in at the back of
the Shrine: I have shown, that to do this, in the short time allowed him, was
simply impossible; numbers have testified to the fact that the back of the
Shrine has never boen tampered with. In the letter under discussion, 1 am
said to expecta phenomenon •• because I told" Madame Blavatsky 80. I never
did so-I really went to see the picture of the Mahatma. Madame Blavatsky
knew perfectly well that I was intimately acquainted with Spiritualism, and
knew all about phenomena and had no childish curiosity on that head,
therefore she was very unlikely to have thought I wanted one.
APPENDIX III.
COLONEL OLCOTT'S FLOWER VASES.
A window which had originally been in the north wall of the Occult Room
was transformed iuto a cupboard with a secret double back (see Plan, No.8),
• It is easy to read between the lines of Madame CoulomL's letter, e,'en
without her statement that Madame Blavatsky told her to be prudent in what
she wrote.-R.H,
Digitized by Google
324 Appendice8 to Yr. Hodg80ll'8 Report
allowing objects to be placed within from the adjoiningoutside paasage. TIlia
double back was one of the "trap doors" discovered. at the time of the
expulsion of the Coulombl. Colonel Olcott informed me that one day in 1883,
when he was in the OccultRoom with Madame Blavatsky, a vase appeared in
thia cupboard--empty jUlt before-as a gift to Colonel- Olcott from one of
the Mahatmas. Colonel Olcott apparently wiahed to duplicate tbia vue if
pOllible, and made mcameric pasael before the closed door of the cup-
board. On re-opening the cupboard a aecoud vase waa there, the facaillille of
the first.
lIadame Coulomb declared that Ihe' bougllt thOle vasea at a &hop in
1\Iadras, and that they were placed in the cupboard through the double back
from outside the Occult Room. The shop where the vasel had actually been
obtained was, she said, Hassam'l, though they were purchased through :rtI.
Faciole and Co., Popham'l Broadway, Madras. I saw M. Faciole, who
remembered accompanying Madame Coulomb to Hassam and Co. ; and he
Chinese manager at Hauam's, whom I also saw, Ihowed me a pair of vasel
somewhat limilar, as he alleged, to the two pairs purchaaed by Madame
Coulomb. I afterwardl requested Colonel Olcott to show me the V&8eB,
when he found to hia lurpriae that they were not in hia bungalow, and he
waa unable to tell me when they had disappeared.. He lent a few words of
inquiry concerning them to Madame Blavataky, to the main bungalow, about
40 yardl diatant, and in the meantime gave me a description, which, as far as
it went, in Ihape, height, and Ityle of ornamentation, exactly tallied
with the deacription of the vasel Madame Coulomb had purchased at
Hassam'l.
Madame Blavatsky herself then joined UI, and after ltornlily denying
that Ihe had taken tht! vaael, alleged that, after Colonel Olcott had received
them from the Mall&tma, Madame Coulomb had tried to obtain Vasel like
them, but had failed; that Madame Coulomb had purchased (me pair ofvasel
aftenoolYU, and that theae differed. in shape, &c., from thOle received by
Colonel Olcott. Madame Blavatsky then proceeded to sketch roughly the
vases Colonel Olcott had received, and tbe sketch differed greatly from the
description Colonel Olcott had jUlt given. Moreover, the pair of vases wbich
Madame Blavatsky said had been brought to her by Madame Coulomb had
also disappeared as mysteriously as Colonel Olcott's. The only mention of
tbe vases I could find in the books at Hassam's occurred in connection with
their payment by M. Faciole and Co., shortly after the date on which Colonel
Olcott received tllem.
Under the date of May 25th (1883) occurs tbe following entry in the day-
book of 1\1. Faciole and Co. :-
"1 Pair Flower Yase
1 Pair " ..
(Rupees.)
7
". G."
These items appear in the account to Madame Coulomb, but have been
struck out. Ma.clame Coulomb's explanation of thia is that she wiahen them
not to appear in the bill rendered to headquarters, and she therefore paid
cash for them.
Digitized by Google
On PlIe1r4omena tOlJlltcted ffit" The08opl,y. 325
Another entry, under date May 25th, occurs in the receipt-book of M.
Faciole and Co. :-
" Received from Auam and Co.-
(Rupeea.)
1 Pair Chapan Flower V&Be 7} S t to lira E C ul b"
IPair " " " 6 en .. 0 om.
Madame Coulomb therefore purch8led the vases on May 25th; Colonel
Olcott received them on May 26th.
E;J;tract ',.om (Monel Olcott', DianJ.
"May 26th. Fine phenomenon. Got pair of tortoiseshell and lacquer
v&lea with flowers in a cabinet a moment before empty."
APPENDIX IV.
STATEMENTS OF WITNESSES CONCERNING THE SHRINE AND
ENYIRONMENT.
Thia Appendix oontaina the moat important evidence which I received
concerning the Shrine and ita enviromnent. The accounta of "examinationa"
of the Shrine fairly represent much of the "evidential" material which I
gathered from Theoaophiata in India concerning "occult phenomena"
generally. It would be auperfluoUi to print the whole of thia material, but
auch accounta &I thOle of Mellrs. Rathnavelu, Rajamiengar, and Unwala,
given in thia Appendix, may be regarded &I typical.
Some of the following atatementa conaiat of extracta from repliea by
Theo80phiata to a circular inquiry (ride p. 223) iIIued in Auguat, 1884, by
Dr. Hartlnann, &I Chairman of the Board of Control of the Theoaophical
Society. Others were made in reply to my questiona and taken down by me
at the time in writing; and in giving these here I have omitted vanoUi
detaila, which chiefly regard certain eatimated me&lurementa of aize, diatance,
&c., &I unneceuarily burdensome to the reader.
Commenta of my own are in lOme caaea added in further elucidation of
the atatementa of the wftneaaes ; but there are many inatancea of inoon-
aiatency diaplayed in the TheolOphic evidence which may well be left to the
reader'a own diacernment. .
MB.'J. MORGAN.
In reply to my quutw,6I :-When Mrs. Morgan arrived at Adyar early in
November, 1883, the wooden door in the room adjoining the Occult Room,
which had blocked that portion of the wall immediately oppoaite the
Shrine, had been removed, and a bricked frallle W&l being aubstituted. Thia
waa completely pJaatered over, 10 that the whole wall of Madame Blavataky's
bedroom was bare and visible, and there waa no aperture of any kind. Thia
smooth wall W&l then papered in the presence of Mrs. Morgan, the paper-
ing being completedabout the 15th of December.
Mrs. Morgan did not see the door which had previoUily occupied part of
the space of the wall. This door had been removed in consequence of 1\
Digitized by Google
326 Appemlicell to MI'. Hodg80n'8 Report
doubt expre88ed by Mr. G. Mr. G. had placed a sealed letter ill the
Shrine. The letter disappeared. It was afterwards returned to him with
t.he seal apparently unbroken, and it contained the handwriting of a IID.-
hatma in reply to his letter. Mr. G. was not completely satisfied that the
letter might not have been taken out from the back of the Shrine and the
letter opened without destroying the seal. Madame Blavataky hearing of
this, wished all doubts to be removed, and hence ordered the wall to be
blocked up and covered with chunam.
After this work was completed it was suggested by M. Coulomb that a
sheH and sideboard should be made for the room adjoining the Occult Room
88 a resting place for the dishes which might be passed through the upper
part of a closed door i88uing from this adjoining room to the terrace. This
proposal was madeto save the servants' pa88ing through the drawing-room with
the dishes, as this adjoining l"OOm was at that time used byMadame Blavatsky
.88 her dining-room. This suggestion was welcomed by MadameBlavatsky, who
ordered M. 'Coulomb to make the sideboard" at once-at once." This Bide-
board was made and placed against the wall opposite to the Shrine. Whether
it contained drawera or was opened by a door Mrs. Morgan is unable to
recollect. This sideboard remained in that place during the time of the
anniversary. It was about three feet high. A plain, single shelf was alBo
made and placed so that dishes could be easily put upon it by the servants
through the upper part of the door i88uing upon the terrace.
* * * * * * * * *
The Shrine was not removed at any time in tile presence of Mrs.
Morgan.
Mrs. Morgan thinks that a cupboard or wardrobe which was ~ing made
by~. Coulomb for the new rooms might have been adapted for purposes
of trickery, and that M. Coulomb's first intention was to prepare trick-
panels and cupboards in the new roomB, with the object of throwing discredit
on the phenomena, but that he afterwards thought it better to make these
trick-panels, &c., appear in the old rooms, where phenomena had already
taken place.
She noticed how careful M. Coulomb was in bevelling and trimming the
planks, and thought at the time he was a remarbbly skilful workman.
She left Adyar on December 31st.
MR. SUBBA. Row (Vakil of the High Court of Madras), in presence of
Mr. Damodar.
Itt Teply t<J my qUIl3tion8 :-Tho Shrine was placed in the Occult Room,
in March, 1883.
* * * * * * * * *
Neither Mr. Subba Row nor Mr. Damodar had ever seen the Shrine
removed.
* * * * * * * * *
Mr. G. had received a reply to a letter which he had placed in the Shrine,
and had afterwards expre88ed his suspicion that his letter might have been
taken out from the shrine at tlle back and through a panelled door which was
on the east side of the wall, and immediately behind the Shrine. Madame
hearing of this, caused this panelled door to be removed, and a wooden
Digitized by Google
O,l PlleIJomena cOImeciea tcith ThcOBOpl'l/. 327
bricked frame inserted which was filled with a layer of bricks, and then
covered with chunam, 80 that a bare wall without aperture was formed.
This wall was then papered over, and the work was completed about a
fortnight before the anniversary, December 27th, of 1883.
A sideboard was made and placed a.gamat that part of the wall where the
bricked frame had been inserted.
* * * * • * * * *
This sideboard was placed against the wall before the anniversary, and
remained there during the anniversary. It was the same sideboard in
which M. Coulomb afterwards exhibited the movable ba.ck. Mr. Subba
Row had never seen the inside of the sideboard before M. Coulomb opened
it at the time of the " Exposure."
The panelled door was composed of four pieces of teak wood together
with croas-pieces, and resembled the door now fixed in the side of Madame.
Blavatsky's sitting-room, but he cannot say certainly whether it is the same
door or not.
[Mr. Damodar wished to demur to Mr. Subba Row's statement that the
sideboard was against the wall before the anniversary. He did not venture
to assert so himself, but said that Mr. C. Soubbiah Chetty (whose evidence-
Mr. Damodar had been very anxious for me to obtain) declared it was net
there during the anniversary. Mr. Subba Row nevertheless was perfectly
confident on the subject, nor did Mr. Damodar venture any further to
dispute Mr. Subba Row's statements. But see Mr. Damodar's evidence,
ilifra.]
MR. ST. GEORGB LANB-Fox.
I,~ reply to my QUUtWl14 :-Mr. Lane-Fox examined the Shrine carefully
at the time of the "Exposure." The Shrine was close to the wall, and
muslin and other stuff between the Sbrine and the wall.
Mr. Lane-Fox desired my special attention to the fact that an exceasive
superstition was attached to the Shrine by the natives. The feeling with
which they regarded it would absolutely interfere with any careful inveatiga-
tion of either the Shrine or its surroundings. .On the occasion of the
"Exposure," Mr. P. Sreenevas Rao and others urged strong remonstrances
against his proposal to remove the Shrine and examine the wall, and " disturb
the sacred things." He insisted, however, upon doing 80. He endea,'oured
to look bebind the Shrine, but could see nothing. M. Coulomb had said
there had been formerly a hole in the wall just behind the Sbrine, and
that the" saucer" phenomenon was thUI accounted for, Mr. Lane-Fox,
therefore, had the Shrine lifted up and he pulled the mUllin away, and then
some other fabric or .. stuff" which was close to the wall. TIlia other stuff
[which the tailor who prepared the hangings of the Occult Room 8.8Ierta
to have been white glazed calico tacked to the wall] was joined, not sewn,
10 that the joining ran down the wall opposite the middle of the Shrine.
He examined the wall, which was whitewashed, very carefully, and could
find not the Imallest tracll of the previous existence of a hole.
The hole in the east side of tlle wall, behind the sideboard, had
apparently been made after the sideboard was placed there, and could not
be seen at all from outside when the sideboard was closed.
Digitized by Google
328 Appendice8 to Hr. Hodf/80n'8 Report
MR. P. SBEENEVAS RA.o (Judge of the Court of SmRll Causes, Madras).
Augtc.t 3lat, 1884.
From hi.Jreply to the circtdar inquiry :-The Shrine is a rosewood cabinet.
in which are placed the portraits of ~e two Revered Mabatinaa under whose
auspices the Theosophical Socie~ is founded, besides certain other articles
which are considered sacred. This cabinet is lodged about three feet from
the floor at one end of a room-called the Occult Room-on the upper storey
of the main building of the headquarte1'8 of the Society, and was at fi1'8t
made to rest against a board which completely covered the whole length and
breadth of a door which opened into the adjoining hall ; but subsequently,
this door having been closed with brick and chunam, the cabinet was allowed
to rest against the wall thus formed. But there never was a hole or other
communication of any kind between the cabinet and the door or wall behind
it, or in any other part of the room. . . • There were phenomena,
i.Il., in other words, lette1'8 put in the Shrine disappeared, and replies were
found in their place, even after Madame Blavatsky left Madras,-that is,
even after the aforesaid holes had been closed, as alleged by Coulomb; thus
proving beyond a doubt that the holes were not necessary for the production
of phenomena. • • .
And lastly, I have to notice the happy circumstance that, subsequent to
the above noticed Coulombs' affair, matte1'8 are going on in statu quo in our
Society. After a short suspense in the interval the Shrine was opened to
communication as freely as before, and while the founde1'8 of the Society are
still absent from Madras the Maste1'8 are taking away our communications
from the Shrine, and vouchsafing their replies through the Shrine and often
outside the Shrine, and even outside the Occult Room itself, thus establishing
the broad fact that for the exhibition of the phenomena no Shrine or cabinet
is necessary, much less any mechanical contrivallce, t1'8p-doo1'8 of Coulomb'.
invention . . .
In f't1Jly to my qt&ll8tioJl& :-Mr. P. S. Rao thinks that the Shrine was first
resting against the planked door, but is not certain, as he never himself put
his hands behind the Shrine to feel it. The Shrine was never removed in his
presence.
He never heard a ticking sound from the Shrine. The Shrine was close
to the wall.
The sideboard in which the panels were shown by M. Coulomb was
standing in its position during the anniversary of 1883.
Mr. P. S. Rao does not know of any instance of Shrine phenomena after
the expulsion of the Coulombs.
[Concerning Shrine phenomena after 1rladame Blavatsky left Madras see
Report, p. 248, and Appendix XI.]
MR. T. VUURA.GIlAVA. CRARLOO (Anand.) (Official at Headquarte1'8).
In reply to my quutiom ;-The wooden door which had once been on the
east side of the wall behind the Shrine is the sante door which is now in the
side of Madame BlavatskY's sitting-roOm.
An almirah (cupboard) WlI.8 standing for some time before this door in
the east side of tho wall, and the almirah was sometimes removed to allow
eceptica to see that there was no hole to the Shrine.
Digitized by Google
Ojt PIleliOmella cOllnected tnth Tlle()8opll!l. 329
Mr. G. came and saw the hollow place where some clothes of Madame
were hanging, and he thought his letter which he had put into the Shrine
might have been taken out there. Madame, hearing of this, had a wooden
frame made to fit the gap, with croaa-piecea of wood. Bricks in a single
layer were then inserted, and the outside covered with chunam. The in-
terior was left hollow at M. Coulomb's suggestion to Madame Blavatsky.
Coulomb said that if the space was filled up, the preuure would tell too
much upon the roof.
The carpenters say that Coulomb told them only to GLUB the back of the
sideboard which was made.
[At first Ananda said that this sideboard thus made was placed against the
east side of the Occult Room wall before the anniversary, but afterwards
&BBerted that it was not placed there till after the anniversary, and that
during the anniversary there was no sideboard in the room adjoining the
Occult Room. In a later conversation I told Ananda that other witnesses
aaaerted that the sideboard was present during the anniversary, and he then
said that he did not know whether it was present or not, that he was absent
during the anniversary.]
The Shrine itself was never moved in Ananda's presence, and it was clOBe
to the wall. There was hardly half an inch of space between the back of
the Shrine and the wall.
MR. BABAIBB D. NATH.
AI'SIU8t 30th, 1884.
III "eply to fM circula/' illquiry :-Having been called upon to state what
I know in regard to the Occult Room in the upstairs and its condition on,
before, or after the 18th May, 18M, I beg to say that I had before that date
examined the Occult Room, the Shrine, and its surroundings several times.
I had an interest in so examining, as I wanted to be able to give my unquali-
fied testimony coIlBCientiously to a very prominent aceptical gentleman at
Madras, who knows me well and who urged me to state all my experiences
about phenomena. Madame Blavatsky herself asked me on several occasions
to examine, as she knew my relation to the gentleman. I was also present
on the day when Mr. Coulomb gave the charge of the upstairs to our party
and when he exposed himself audaciously. I remember very well that, during
the last (VIII.)anniversary, lone day tapped well on the papered wall behind
the Shrine in various plaeea, and found, from the noise produced, that it
was a whole wall. I have tapped on the wall after Coulomb's contrivances,
and found that there is a marked dift'erence between the portion of the
wall where he has cut open and between other portions of it. Th~ former
when tapped produces now the noise of a hollow, incomplete wall; while
the latter portion stands the test of tapp~. I know more of the
phenomena, of Madame Blavatsky, and of the Coulombs than any outsider;
I am in so iutimate relations at the headquarters that I have been treated
with matters of a confidential nature unreservedly. Even Madame Coulomb
herself had been along treating me as a real friend, and telling much and
often of what she said she would not tell others. I have, therefore, no
hesitation at all in stating for a fact that any contrivances whatever, like
trap-doors, &c., that are now found had nothing at all to do with Madame
Blavatsky, who had not the remotest idea of them. The Coulombs are the
y
Digitized by Google
330 AppelUiice8 to MI'. HOOg801,'8 Report
sole authors of the lliot. It is worth mentioning here that Mr. Coulomb
worked up the walls, set up the doors, and did everything without allowing"
a single carpenter, m&80n, or coolie, to go upstairs i and he W&8 furious if
any of us went up to see. To prove that Madame Blavataky W&8 not a party
to the scheme, I shall cite one fact. She allowed-nay, requested-1tlr. G.
Subbiah Chetty Garu, F.T.S., to examine the work done. He went one day
to see it. Coulomb W&8 furious, and did not allow him, but drove him out.
and told Madame Blavataky that none of us should go there at all, since he
lI&id he W&8 working without clothes alone. This W&8 a mere Pl'etext, &8 on
that occaaion he W&8 not so,*and as we have all seen him often with only a
pair of dirty trousers. Instances can be multiplied. I must conclude by
lI&ying that the "phenomena" of the Mahatmas do not stand in need of
Coulombian contrivances, &8 I have witnessed at different times and different
places when and where there were no such trsp-doors, and I have seen and
know those exalted sages who are the authors of the "phenomena." I can
therefore &88ure all my friends that the Coulombs had got Ull a "Christian
plot" during Madame Blavataky's absence.
II~ "eply to my quMWIIS :-He had seen the boarding on the eaat side of
the Occult Room wall behind the Shrine i said it was not at alllike the four-
panelled door now ill t.he north side of the sitting-roum. [At this moment a
Venetianed window caught Babajee's eye. He lI&id the boarding W&8 "liko
that"-pointing to the window!] He II&W the wall bare and intact some
time before the anniversary, andll&w it completely papered.
The sideboard W&8 not placed there till February at the earliest i it was
the lI&me sideboard &8 was afterwards exhibited by Mr. Coulomb.
The four-panelled door now ill the north side of the sitting-room W&8 not
set up there till after the anniversary, [in other words] the teak-wood door
now in the side of the sitting-room was not there when the phenomenon of
.. Ramaswamy's arm" occurred.
.,. .,. .,. .". * .,.
Mr. Babajee ne\'er II&W the Shrine removed, but examined the back of
the Shrine before it was set up. There were no panela. There was about
4in. space between the Shrine and the wall, and the wall of the Occult
Room throughout W&8 bare and whitew&8hed.
*
[Conceruing Mr. Babajee's statement, it lnay be remarked that the wall
upon wluch he tapped W&8, by the agreement of all the other witneaaes,
except Babula, just &8 hollow during the anniversary as it W&8 after M.
Coulomb's" exposure;" that the four-panelled door now in the north side
of the sitting-room W&8 clearly there during the anniversary and at the time
of the occurrence of the .. Ramaswamy's arm .. phenomenon, and is identical
with the boarding originally on the e&8t side of the Occult Room wall behin(l
• Supposing Mr. Babajee's account to he correct, the fact. which he cites to
l'rove that Madame Blavatsky "'as not a party to the scheme, IIhow8 rather the
contrary; it seems not unlikely that 1\1. Coulomb, when the incident which Mr.
Babajee relatesoccurred, W&8 actually engaged in the preparation or alteration of
trick apparatu. Madan1e Blavat.sky might well have trusted M. Coulomb to
"upply a .. pretext" for not allowing Rny one to inspect his work.
Digitized by Google
01/. Phenomena countcted u:itfl Theo8ophll. 331
the Sllrine j that tile back of the Shrine was panelled and mucll closer to
the wall than alleged, the wall being, moreover, covered with fabric j and
that the sideboard was placed in position before the anniversary. I regard
Mr. Babajee's statements about the four-pn.nelled door and the sideboard at
least as involving deliberate falsification on his part, 80 much so that I must
regard him as an altogether untrustworthy witneu.
It will be seen from Mrs. Morgan's evidence that she left Adyar on
December 31st, 80 that the sideboard must have been placed in its position
against the wall behind the Shrine some t.ime in December. Her explicit
testimony that it was placed in its position before the anniversary, and
remained there during the anniversary, is confirmed by the statements of
Dr. Hartmann, Me88rB. Subba Row, P. Sreenevas Row, and P. Rathnavelu.
Meurs. Ramaswamier and CooPpo08wamy Iyer also gave me their testimony
to tile same effect. As to the four-panelled boarding in the side of Madame
Blavatsky's sitting-room, Ananda and even Babula stated that it was that
which had previously been at the back of the receu behind the Sllrine, and
Mr. Subba Row stated that it ,·uembled that boarding. The reason men-
tioned by Mrs. Morgan, Mr. Subba Row, and Ananda for the removal of
tile boarding from its original position in the rece88 behind the Shrine,
agrees with that alleged by Madame Coulomb (" Some A.ccount," &c., p.71),
Ti:., that Madame Blavatsky had "heard that some one had hinted at tho
existence of sliding panels in this malBive sham door, which was at the back
of the bricked-up window against which the Sbrine leant." Against this
statement, in my copy of Madame Coulomb's pamphlet, Madame Blavataky
bas written the word ••NEVER"! In reply to my very definite questioning
as to the full significance of this word, Madame Blavataky &88ert-eti that no
one lU\d hinted at panels, and that there never had been a boardirlt. I was
so specific in repeating my inquiry that I believe it to have been absolutely
impossible that Madame Blavataky could have misunderstood me, yet her
answer was to the same effect as before. Nevertheleu, after I had
pointed out to her that by denying the existence of the boarding she was
irretrievably damaging Iler own evidence, inasmuch as the statementi of
Tlleo80pllic witneBBes clearly established that such a boarding had been
against the wall behind the Sbrine, she pretended that ahe had misunder-
stood my questions, and proceeded to give me a clear and accurate enougll
outline of the open history of the boarding under diacUBBion.]
BABULA (Madame Blavataky's native servant).
[Babula, who was near the door part of the time when I was questioning
Babajee, gave a similar dO,scription of the Shrine and the space between tile
Shrine and the wall, placing his fingers in the same manner as Babajee, to
show me the width of the space between the Sbrine and the wall.]
* * * * * *
I,. reply to my qltutio118 :-There had originally been a window at that
part of the wall where the Shrine was placed. This window had been taken
awa.y, and the gap bricked up on the Occult Room side, and covered with
cbunam. The Shrine was placed against this bare wall. On tho east side
of this part of the wall a plank boarding was erected. This boarding was
afterwards taken away and placed in the north side of the sitting-room, and
is the same as that to be now seen there.
y 2
Digitized by Google
332 Appendice8 to MI'. Hoag8ol.'8 Report
The plank boarding, when on the east side of the wall of the Occult
Room, formed the back of a receaa, ia which Madame Blavatsky used to hang
her clothes.
When the boarding was taken away a frame was made of wood so as to fit
the outer edges of this receaa ; a layer of bricks was placed in this frame, and
the whole then covered with chunam. [The hollow of the receaa Babula was
not sure about; he appeared to be trying to get some cue from Babajee, who
was present; said first it had been filled up, but finally said he did not know,
but thinks it was filled up.] The sideboard was put against the wall for the
.first time about the beginning of February. He saw the wall papered over
some time before the anniversary.
[See comments on Mr. Babajee's evidence.]
MR. P. RATHNAVELU (Editor of The Philosophic Inquirer), Madras.
[He visited Adyar on 14th September, 1884, to inspect the rooms, &c.
Dr. Hartmann, Mr. Judge, and Mr. Damodar led him to the Shrine.]
From 1\ letter to the Editor of The T1wJsophist, 21st September, 1884.
I examined it [the Shrine] carefully and with a critical eye of course some-
times touching the several parts thereof with my own hand, to guard myself
against any poBBible illusion ofthe sight. There was no opening or hole on this
side of the cupboard (!;;hrine) forany one to reach his hand from behind it. It
was rather loosely but firmly fixed to the wall, so that one could paBB a stick
through the space between the back board of the Shrine and the wall to
which it is attached. On being satisfied with this portion of the Shrine, I
was led into the adjoining room to see the other side of the wall to which
the Shrine is attached, aml which is alleged to be connected with it by a trap-
door or back door. Alas! I was shown an ingenious piece of furniture-
like apparatus, standing close to, or I might say even fixed to the mouth of
the Shrine, to which was fastened a sliding door which, when opened, led
into a small aperture in that wall nearly two by three feet. Inside of this
again there was a hollow space, sufficiently large for a lean lad to stand 011
his legs, if he could but creep into it through the aperture, and hold his
breath for a few seconds. I attempted in vain to creep through the opening
in the wall myself, and simply stretched out my head with some difficulty
into the small hollow to see its internal condition and structure. It had no
communication with the back board of the Shrine. At least there was
nothing in it to show that there could have been any such thing. From
which and other circumstances I thought within myself that the diabolical
machinery, for the invention of which the Society is greatly indebted to the
genius of Mr. Coulomb, the "Engineer-in-Chief of the Devil," was not
finished, as was intended. I was shown also other similar inventions-such
as sliding panels, sliding doors, &c., by the lIelfsame gentleman; all of which
bore the stamp of the freshneBB of unfinished work.
. . . . . ~
When I had seen the Shrine and its surroundings on a previous occasion,
as stated already, on the 1st April, 1883, there was a large a1mirah lltanding
against the wall, just on the very spot where Mr. Coulomb has been pleased
to put up his machinery trap-door ; and it was, if I remember aright, in the
Digitized by Goo
On Pltentmtena. cotlflected UJith Tlte08opnv. 333
bedroom of Madame Blavataky. On the occurrence of the phenomenon
recorded in TM Philolophic Inquirer of the 8th April, 1883, which waa
ntlither pre-arranged nor premeditated, aa will be seen from my report in that
journal, I took great care to see that there 11'88 no trap-door or opening
behind the Shrine on either aide of the wall to which it ia fixed. The
almirah 11'114, at our request to Madame Blavataky, removed with lOme
difficulty from ita place, to allow of the wall on that aide being tapped and
aufficiently examined by me. I did 10, and waa then convinced thoroughly
that there 11'88 no attempt at deception on any one'a part.
[Said he had not heard from Mr. Damodar that I waa coming.]
III n~ply to myqtwfiom :-Mr. Rathnavelu inspected the Shrine in April,
1883. He did not move the Shrine from the wall. There was mualin
between the Shrino and the wall, and there 11'88 just apace enough to paaa a
stick up and down between the Shrine and the muslin, the Shrine being
about an inch from the wall. He paaaed the stick up and down in this man-
ner, and it moved freely. When the almirah or cupboard in the room
adjoining the Occult Room waa removed, there 11'88 viaible a plaatered wall,
which lOunded hollow. The plaater covered IOmo planking.
[At first I understood that Mr. Rathnavelu clearly admitted that the
planking, or blocking door, waa visible behind the almirah, but he then
stated, on my repeating the inquiry very definitely, that this blocking door
waa covered with chunam. On my aaking how he knew there was a door
underneath, he said he had been told 10 at the time.]
Mr. Rathnavelu also stated that he waa present at the anniversary, 27th
December, in 1883, and admitted that the sideboard was then present
against the waUl of the room adjoining the OccultRoom.
[The marks of the naila used to keep the plank door in ita place are
still viaible in the receaa on the east aide of the wall, and it appears clearly
that the door waa never covered with chunam. Mr. Rathnavelu ia quite.
alone in this peculiar atatement.]
MR. T. C. Ru.umuroAB (native doctor).
[Extract from an account quoted in the Supplement to TM ThwIophilt for
November, 1884.]
I have known the Shrine at Adyar since Febuary, 1883. But it waa in
September, 1883, that I had actually an opportunity of closely examining
the structure of the Shrine, 10 aa to see whether the trickery, now pretended
to be exposed, had ever any existence. I may say that I entered the room
containing the Shrine with the mind of an out-and-out aceptic, indeed, all
thia time, I may say 111'88 an unbeliever, though I had constantly met the
founders of the Theosophical Societ.y, and read much of their writing.
What atruck me about the doings of the Th8OlOphiata was, CC What neceuity
ia there for these modern Theoaophista to perform their phenomena in a
particular locality, and that in ashrine, while our ancient aages did all we
have known in open places' " I 11'88 BOOn quieted by an invitation on the
part of Madame Blavataky to inspect the Shrine, and satisfy myaelf about
it. .-
I ahall now give a brief description of the Shrine and ita situation in
order that· the outside public may see whether it is poaaible that the en-
Digitized by Google
334 Appelldices to MI'. Hodg80n'8 Report
lightened members of the Society could have been subjected to t.he trickery
that the Coulombs now boast of exposing.
Madame Blavatsky had her sleeping apartment in the hall upstairs in the
Adyar premises. There is a door-way leading from this hall to a room where
the Shrine is suspended, the Shrine itself (a cupboard as they call it) being
on the wall aboutfour feet above the ground. I opened the doors of this Shrine,
and fOWld in it some photos and a silver cup and a few other things. I
clearly eumined every portion of this Shrine from within, tapping with my
handa every part cf it, and nowhere could I find room for suspicion. Not
satisfied with this, I examined the outside of the Shrine, the front and the
sidel, and the top ; and they ltood the telt. For fear of disarranging the
things, I did not move the Shrine about, but what was more satisfactory, I
examined the back portion of the wall on which rested the Shrine (which
was inside the hall containing Madame Blavatsky'l sleeping apartment) and
found that there could not be the slightest room for sUlpicion in any
direction, so far as the matter of the structure of the Shrine is concerned.
After this Madame Blavatsky had the kindness to ask if any of 01 (we
werethen about five there) had any letter to send to Mahatmas. One of
01 immediately produced a letter; I took up the cup from the Shrine, having
carefully examined it,and the gentleman dropped the letter into it. I placed
the cup with the letterin the Shrine, and closed it, as desired by the above
lady. Two or three minutes after, Madame Blavatsky, who was standing
about two yards oft' from the Shrine, said she felt an answer came, and on
opening the Shrine we found a letter addre88ed to the sender, containing four
pages with not le88 than 20 lines on each, which would occupy any mortal
writer, simply to copy it in, not le88 than half-an-hour. It must be remem-
bered that there mOlt have been time for one to read the letter, and then to
prepare an answer which may take up another 15 minutes. But all this
took place in the course of two or three minutes.
I shall now give an acC(lunt of the so-called trap-door. I found this trap-
door in an incomplete state for the first time in June, 1884, a few months
after the departure of the founders. It is so small a door that a thin, spare
boy of 10 or 12 years could hardly enter through it. It is intended to
be understood the phenomenal letters were ushered into the Shrine through
this passage, but anyone seeing the passage for himself would be convinced
of the imp088ibility of the thing being done.
I must, therefore, take this occasion to represent what I know of these
matters to allow Truth to triumph; and I feel it specially neoo88&ry now
that every one of 01 should speak out h.is experience of the Theosophists and
their doings, that they may fumish, however lightly it may be, answers to
the attacks of tlle Coulombs upon the conduct of persona too far away to
justify themselves.
In reply to my qlltstio1l1 :--He had not removed the Shrine from the wall,
nor had he examined the back of the Shrine from without or the face of
the wall juxtaposed. The wall he examined was in the other room, and
was bare and intact where it corresponded to the Shrine.
The letter produced was one which had been previously forwarded to
Mr. Damodar to be sent to the Mahatma, and Mr. Damodar placed it in the
Shrine.
Digitized by Google
On Pl,enomena cOllneeted rcit" 1'he08Op!l!l. 335
[The statementa of Mr. Rajamiengar are curiously wide of the truth.
He (leacribes the wall behind the Shrine in Madame Blavataky's bedroom as
"bare and intact" in September, 1883, whereas at that time the four-
panelled boarding was certainly there. Mr. P. Partbasa.ra.thy Chetty, who
accompanied Mr. Rajamiengar, recollected that "in the room adjoining the
Occult Room, there was, immediately behind the Shrine, a door which
appeared BOlid and immovable, and which BOunded hollow."
Since the "letter" had been previously forwarded to Mr. Damodar, the
answer might have been eaaily prepared beforehand.]
COLONEL OLCO'IT.
It was not until after my investigations had been continued some time,
and I lIad expreSBed at the TheoBOphical headquarters my appreciation of the
great flearth of evidence for any examination of the west side of the wall
behind the Shrine, that on one of my visita to Adyar I was informed that
Colonel Olcott had that morning found a letter in his drawer, written in red
ink, and said to be from Mahatma M. Colonel Olcott declared that he had
entirely forgotten the circumstances to which this note referred until finding
it in his drawer. It ran as follows :-
"Henry, now that your fever is cured I want you perform something
that will cure it for ever. It would not do for you to have it at Ceylon.
Call Babula and a cooly or two and lifting off the cupboard Shrine clean off
the wall (you can do so without taking it off ita wires or nail), write my sign
-on that spot of the wall which corresponds with the centre and four corners
.of the cupboard. The signs must be very small, and thus. [The letter con-
tained a rough sketch of the positions of the marks.] When you return from
Ceylon the answers will be there. Copy them. You must not let tTpasika
aee what you have done, nor tell her. Especially keep this secret from the
Coulombs."
Colonel Olcott then told me that the finding of this letter had recalled to
his mind the fact that he obeyed these instructions. He calculated the date
to be December 17th, 1883. He declares that he looked again on a date
-calculated by him to be February 13th, 1884, and found the wall in the same
cf'lDdition as on December 17th. There was no mention of these eventa in
his diary. Colonel Olcott said there was muslin behind the Shrine, and
Babula,-who was summoned by Madame Blavataky, !lot at my request,-
:&aid that he remembered the incident, and that he moved the Shrine, &0.,
very carefully, because he was afraid Madame Blavataky would be angry.
Colonel Olcott, in reply to my inquiry made at the time when t,his note was
first shown me, said that he thougbt he must have observed any panel or hollow
if there had been such behind the muslin, which he said was moved at the
different positions BO as to allow him to write the initials. Colonel Olcott's
.confidence, however, soon increased considerably, and in a later conversation
he aSBerted that he saw the whole bare wall at once after removing the
.., stuff" between it and the Shrine! The reader however may remember
that to see the whole bare wall at once it would have been needful to
remove not only the muslin but the other fabric, which, according to the
evidence of Mr. Lane-Fox, closely covered the wall immel\iately behind the
Shrine.
Digitized by Google
336 Appendice8 to HI'. Ho«g30n'3 Report
Examination of Colonel Olcott's testimon1 in other cases (see Report,
pp. 231-239, analysis of his evidence given before the Committee), even with-
out the discrepancy noted above, is enough to show the impossibility of
placing any reliance upon his isolated" remembered" indirect observation of
the wall behind the Shrine.
Most probably this Mahatma note is an e:I: p<J8t jacto document foisted
upon Colonel Olcott by Madame Blavatsky. Had it really been written at
the close of 1883, it should have been mentioned in Colonel Olcott's detailed
diary, and it should have been found by Colonel Olcott immediately on bis
arrival at Adyar from Europe at the end of 1884, when he professes to bave
made a careful search through his papers for documents of value as against
the Coulombs' charges; nothing, however, was heard of it till the moment
when evidence for inspection of the Shrine wall was known to be lacking.
MR. DAMODAR K. 1\1AVALANKAl!..
A1lfI1Ut 18th, 1884.
From hisji,.,t reply to Cil'Clda,. inquiry:-As regards the hole [through the
sideboard into the rece&II] • • • in the presence of Dr. Hartmann and
Mr. Lane-Fox, I attempted to enter it. All who know me or have seen
me areaware how thin and lean I am ; and although I was almost half naked at
the time, I could enter the "hole" with difficulty. And when once inside I
could only stand abreast without being able to move, either way, an inch, or
to lift up my band. I was there hardly 10 seconds when I felt choked,
and I am firmly persuaded to believe that if I had stopped there two minutes
longer I should have fainted on account of suft'ocation. And this when the
cupboard attached to the hole was removed, and there was passage for air
through it. How much more suft'ocating must it be when there is no such
free passage for air 1 Moreover, the piece of wall f)n which the "Shrine"
was hung is intact. Mr. Coulomb himself told us, on the evening of the 18th,
that there was no communication then between that " wall" and the
" Shrine." The frame of the "Shrine" was also intact, and there was no
sliding panel to it. All this he himself admitted, adding, however, that he
had closed them up before Madame Blavatsky's departure from Madras. If
80, there are several witne88es to show that the phenomena were witnessed
even in the" Shrine" afteJ' Madame BlamtBky'8 deparltwe, and when, accord-
ing to Mr. Coulomb's own admission, the communication between the
" Shrine" and the aperture was no longer existing.
Auguat 19th, 1884.
From his 86coml reply to cil'cular illquiry:-1 had not tnyaelj examined the
wall, nor the Shrine for some time; but I was present on several occasions
when the various witnesses to the "occult phenomena" had examined them.
One or two of these were themselves engineers, and had closely and minutely
examined the places. They luul scrutinised carefully, in every p088ible way,
the Shrine, and had satisfied themselves that it was intact, and had no lxUleiB
or anything of the kind. I say all this because the several examinations in
mypresence were completely satisfactory, and I had no reason to complain
in any way. When some outsiders had made unfavourable observations, I
mean these who had never been in the OCCltlt Room, Madame Blavataky
had asked me to examine the Shrine; and one day, in December or January
Digitized by Google
On Pkellome'lla conllected tnth Tke08opl'!I. 331
last, I well remember Mr. Subba Rowand myself very carefully examining
the Slu'i1l6 and the waU ; and we were both satisfied that they were intact.
But I must state something before that time. To the other side of the wall,
behind the Shrine, was put a wardrobe, which was sometjmes removed in the
presence of several witnesses, and we had all every reason to be sure that the
wall was intact. In July or August last year Madame Blavatsky went to
Ootacamund; andshortly afterwards Colonel Olcott, who was then visiting the
South Indian Branches, joined her there. During their absence, the key of
the 81witle and of the Occult Room were in my charge, and every week, with-
out fail, I used to take all the things out of the Shrine, and clean it myself
with a towel, many times in the presence of Madame Coulomb, and some-
times when others were there I used to rub the frame hard with the towel,
and if there were any workable panel at that time, it could not but have
moved under the pressure. But I noticed nothing of the kind. The whole
frame was quite intact, and I can sayfrom positive knowledge that it was 60
till the middle of September last. Madame Blavatsky then returned to
Madras, and I lumded the keys over to her. During that period of nearly
three months, I had put in several letters in the Shrine, the key being in
my possession, and invariably I received replies. It was then, during that
period, that General Morgan saw the phenomenon of the broken saucer
mentioned by him in The TheoBOphu,f. • • •
Then he showed us three sliding paJlels to three pieces of furniture
in Madame Blavatsky's room. These were evidently new. They
could not be moved without a great deal of effort and a great
noise. One of these, moreover, was to a shelf, to be worked from
outside, i.e., the passage from the stairs to Madame Blavatsky's
rooms. At all times the door of the stairs was open, and anyone going up
could easily see anyone working it. And, moroover, hardly any phenomena
were produced therein. Another of these panels also was to a shelf, to be
worked from outside, so that anyone standing on the stairs could see what
the person was doing. Moreover, the difficulty and the great noise with
which they could be moved distinctly showed their very recent origin and
the impracticability of their having been used before.
From MR. DAllODAB.'s Statement concerning the BLAVAT8Ky-COULOMB
Letters. (Printed in a pamphlet compiled by Dr. HartmallD.)
September 19th, 1884.
But I lUust say a few words in regard to the Shrine itself. As Mrs.
Coulomb always promised to look after the books and furniture of Madame
Blavatsky during her absence, the latter always entrusted her with the keys
of her room, so that the former might be able to see that none of the books
and furniture were damaged. Accordingly, when Madame Blavatsky went
to Ootacamund, the keys of her rooms and of the Shrine were as usual
lumded over to Mrs. Coulomb, with full permission, to all of 1", to U4e her
rooma and thing. when~r tee liked. It was oaly in January, 1884, when
Madame Blavatsky began to dine in the room next to the Occult Room, that
the cupboard was put to the wall, so that dishes, plates, &c., might be put
in it. But this piece of furniture came into existence after the phenomena
were nc longer produced ill the Bhrine.-[Yide pp. 228-231.].
Digitized by Google
338 .Appe/Ulice8 to Hr. Hodg8on'd RlPOl't
lIR. O. N. UNWALA.
Bhaunnagar, August 3rd, 18M.
Perhaps I may also be allowed to bear testimony .as an expert, 1\8 the
lawyers say, to the genuineness of an occult phenomenon that 1 was
fortunate enough to witnen at the Adyar headquarters, where I was a guest
for three weeks in M.ay, 1883.
I humbly venture to call myself an "Expert," and I have my grounds
for doing so, which I am constrained to enumerate in this place in the
interests of truth and of justice to our esteemed and venerable teacher,
Madame Blavatsky, against the ill-advised, fatuous, and malicious attacks of
our enemies, whose wilful ignorance of our transcelldental sciences is as great
.as their infamous and wicked desire to distort and misrepresent facts for their
own self-intere'Jt.
I had a scientific education in my younger days, and have never ceased
to take a keen interest in all that appertains to the progren of modern
8cientific researches. For the last 12 years or more I have been a teacher
inteT alia of Natural Science, and have also delivered public lectures on
scientific subjects, supplemented and illustrated by experiments of various
kinds. When I was in England in 1870, one of my fa\'ourite places of resort
was the Polytechnic Institution, where. as is well-known, scientific lectures
are delivered. One of these lectures, I may mention here, was on "Raising
Ghosts," by Profeasor Pepper; and I may say that I am fully conversant
with the appliances and apparatus he used to illu8trate his lectures. As a
humble devotee of Natural Science, I have studied and lectured upon electric
.and magnetic phenomena, and although it would be presumptuous-nay,
absurd-to say that I "know all about it," yet I may say that J have SOUle
experience, theoretical and practical., in manipulating electrical and magnetic
apparatus, including the telephone and the microphone. It was but a few
days ago that I was established in this city under the patronage of the
Maharaja. Besides these pursuits, I may be allowed to state that I have had
considerable experience in "Parlour Magic," "Prestidigitation," &c., &c.,
which, I have always been of opinion, are not only productive of innocent
amusement but also of instruction and Natural Science.
As this letter may be published, I hasten to assure y'>u that it is with
very great reluctance I make these personal statements to prove the claim
I, in all humility, put forth to be looked upon as an "Expert" in the
technical phraseology of the Law Courts. I must not be misunderstood-I
do not pretend to know much; I am no profenor!
In May, 1883, when, 8S I said above, I was a guest at the headquarters,
I had many opportunities of being in the "Occult Room," and of examining
it and the Shrine; and once, I remember, at the earnest desire of Madame
Blavataky, before and after tlle occurrence of a phenomenon, I can safely
any, without any equivocation or reservation, that in the" Occult Room,"
or anywhere within the precincts of the headquarters, I never could find any-
thing, either apparatus or appliances, electric wires, galmnic batteries,
telephones, microphones, trap-doors, springs, double walls, resonant tubes,
:screens, mirrors, magic-lanterns, photogenic solutions, &c., &c., in any way
:suggestive of" fraud or tricks," as our enemies in their blatant, mischievous
.self-complacency are fond of designating "Occult" phenomena.
Digitized by Google
On PlIellOtnmtl connectea tcitl~ Theo8oph!l. 339
Two more phenomena I have had the good fortune to witne_the
ringing of silvered-toned bells and the receipt of a letter from one of our
revered Guru Devs, "formed" in a hollow tin model of Cleopatra's Needle.
But these took place before Madame Blavatsky at places a thousand miles
from the headquarters.
This, then, I know for a certainty, that these phenomena-occult because
the rationale is not known, not because " unscientific," as our short-sighted
enemies would, in their culpable perversene88, have ito-are produced by the
manipulation of certain forces of nature subtler by far than the subtle
" physical forces" of modem science, still imperfectly known and inadequately
studied or investigated, as she herself frequently hM to confess.
MR. J. D. B. GRIBBLE.
[From"A Report of an Examination into the Blavatsky C6rrcsllOndencc,
published in the Ohrutian Colkge Maga:ille."J
"I was also shown two of the sliding doors and panels, said t() have been
made by M. Coulomb after Madame Blavatsky's departure. One of thesc is
on the outside of the so-called Occult Room, alld the other is on the outside
of the sitting-room upstairs. Both of these have been made without the
slightest attempt at concealment. The former is at the top of a back stair-
case and consists of two doors which open into a kind of book-shelf. This
gives the idea of having been constructed so as to place food on the shelves
inside without opening the door. The other contril'ance is a sliding panel
which Jifts ur- and opens and shuts with some difficulty. It is evidently of
recent construction. Certainly in its present state it would be difficult to
carry out any phenomena by its means. In this case also there is no attempt
at concealment. Neither of these two appliances cOlUmunicate with the
Shrine, which is situated on tlle cross-wall dividing the Occult Room from an
adjoining bedroom. I was not allowed to see the Shrine."
[Mr. Gribble is not a Theosophist. The preceding pl\888ge refers to his
visit to the headquarters of the Society, on October 3rd, 1884,and tile Shrine
had by that time, according to Dr. Hartmann, been destroyed. It would
appear from Mr. Gribble's account that the sideboard and the entrance to
the hollow space were not shown to him. His account of the "two doors
which open into a kind of book-shelf" suggests, moreo\'er, that the double-
backed cupboard (see Plan, No.8) had been altered in some way since the
dismissal of the Coulombs, before it was shown to Mr. Gribble. Dr.
Hartmann (" Report of Observations," &c., p. 43), after speaking of .. thrcu
secret openings and sliding panels," describes one of themM " opening into tho
back of another cupboaro or bookcase, whose front was co\"ered by a milTor
and which was made acce88ible from the hall." This is the opening to which
Mr. Gribble must be supposed to refer, tIlough he was apparently not in-
formed of the existence of the mirror, and had no opportunity of examining
the position from within the Occult Room.
The sliding-panel to which Mr. Gribble refers is that in the four-
panelled boarding (plan, No.3). This I ha\'e myself thoroughly examined,
and certainly it could, when I saw it, be opened and shut only with consider,
able difficulty.
.After the boarding had been placed in its present exposed position, it had
Digitized by Google
a40 Appendice8 to Hr. Hodgson'8 BePOI·t
been utilised only once, so far as I could ascertain, in the production of a
phenomenon. This instance is given in Appendix VI., and it must have
occurred very shortly after the boarding was placed in the side of the
sitting-room. When we consider that the panel hadapparently nut been used
for about five months previous to the dismissal of the Coulombs, and that for
several months afterwards the rooms were in the po88eaaion of Mr. Damodar,
we should be surprised if Mr. Gribble had found the panel in good working
order. Indeed, a little accidental grit would account for the sti1fneu
which we both observed, and there was a considerable amount of dirt re-
llembling the dust of mortar in the hole in the terrace made for the panel to
aink into. The panel which slid was the lower east panel, and the wooden
block which, according to M. Coulomb, had kept it in its normal position,
had apparently been removed. 'l'he position of the panel when I saw it was,
therefore, perfectly obvious, in consequence of the hole manifest beneath it;
but no trace of its sliding capacity was noticeable in the panel itself when it.
was closed; it was, to 0.11 appearance, just as firmly fixed as the other
panels. Further, the sliding panel did not seem to me to be of more recent
construction than the rest of the boarding, but whether the whole board-
ing was only six months old or a year, or much longer, I could not
have told from my own inspection. The question, however, is decisively
enough answered by Theosophists themselves. (See comments on Mr.
Babajee's evidence.)
I may here refer to some remarks made by Mr. Damodar (see his evidence
(Juoted in this Appendix) concerning these two pieces of " sliding" apparatus
mentioned by Mr. Gribble. According to Mr. Damodar, whose statement
on this point is correct;, they could be seen from the stairs; and he tells us
further that " at all times, the door of the stairs was open." He gives this
information in ol-der to show that the apparatus in question could not have
been used for the production of phenomena (tllOugh he scarcely strengthell8
his argument by adding ~hat "hardly any phenomena were produced
therein") ; but it would seem to show more strongly the impouibility of M.
Coulomb's having prepared the apparatus at the time he is declared by
The080pllistsif to have prepared it;, 'IIi::., in the absence of Madame Blavataky
at Wadwhan, in February, 1884, after she had left Adyar, but before she had
left India. The curiously suspicious incident told by Mr. Babajee (see p.
330) OCCWTed while Madame Blavatsky was at headqusrters.
Now it would appear that after Madame Blavataky's departure from
headquarters in 1884, the Occult Room and the Shrine were in charge of
Mr.Damodar (see Appendix Xl.); moreover it is apparently not denied by the
The080pllists that workmen were about on the terrace during the interval
assigned to M. Coulomb for his secret work, and according to Mr. Damodar
the door of tile stairs was at all times open. If M. Coulomb under these
circUDlStancea could, without the knowledge of any persons at head-
quarters, have constructed the double-backed cUl'boal-d, the panel in the
boarding, tile sideboard panel, and the aperture into the receu, he would
llave perfomled a feat which I should find much more difficult of explanation
than all Madame Blavatsky's phenomena together. And the discovery that
-}lr Brown, member of the Board of Control, states that tllis was "unanl-'
mously decided" by the .. gentJemen present" at the" disclosure."
Digitized by Google
On PI,el/omella COllllectecl/Citll Theosoph!l. 341
a hole in the wall immediately behind the Shrine had previously existed, but
had been blocked up, and that the wall face in the Occult Room belUnd the
Shrine had been carefully whitewashed so as to conceal the traces of the
hdle, would apparently compel the Theosophists to 88IIume that this hole was,
under the same circumstances, not only made but actually closed again, Rnd
hidden so eWectually by 1\1. Coulomb in the Occult Room, wlUch was always
open to Mr. Damodar, that it was very nearly never discovered at all. And
of these alleged marvellous works we should have to suppose that Mr.
Damodar, lUghly-developed Chela of Mahatma Koot Hoomi, remained
entirely ignOl'&Jlt ! ! I think, therefore, that not only is there no evidence to
establish the non-existence of the aperturos and panels in question at
t.h.e time when phenomena may have been produced by their means, but that
an insunllountable difficulty lies in the way of supposing that they could
have been manufactured at the time to which their origin is attributed by
the Theosophists. and that there can be little doubt that they were made
while Madame Bla\"atsky herself was at headquartel'B, and under bel' general
instructions.]
APPENDIX V.
MR. G.'8 LETTER.
[Mr. G. gave me an oral account of the followu~g circumstances, and after-
wards kindly revised my written statement.]
Mr. G. had had several conversations with Madame Blavatsky concerning
Theosophy before the occurrence of the following incident. He bad not,
however, expretllled any intention of writing a letter to Koot Hoomi.
On October 14th, 1883, he wrote a letter addretllled to Mahatma Koot
Hoomi Lal Singh, and after gumming and sealing the envelope, in which
he placed the letter, visited the AdyarHeadquartel'B, accompanied by MrB. G.
The letter contained some inquiry as to the advisability of Mr. G.'s joining
the Theosophical Society. Having obtained pennisaion to place the letter in
the Shrine,Ml'. G., withMl'B. G.,Madame Blavatsky,Mr. SubbaRow,and Mr.
Mohini, entered the Occult Room. The Shrine was opened, and Mr. G. was
invited to inspect it, which he did from within. No opening of any kind
was visible in the back of the Shrine. Mr. G.'s impretlllion is that the
Shrine waspla.cedimmediately in front of a planked walloI' partition which
separated the Occult Room in this part from the adjoining room. The Shrine
appeared to be ratting closely against the west side of this walloI' partition,
but the Shrine was not moved at all from its position.
After the letter was placed in the Shrine by Mr. G. himself the door of the
Shrine was locked, and the key given to Mr. G. Shortly afterwards Madame
Blavataky left the room for a few seconds, and upon returningshe asked Mr.
G. to go round and examine the eastern side of the wall or partition behind
the Shrine. Mr. G. went into the adjoining room (used as a bedroom by
Madame Blavatsky) and found that some clothes of Madame Blavataky were
hanging upon the east aide of this partition. The partition consisted of teak
planking, and appeared to Mr. G., in the cursory examination to which he
·submitted it, to be of solid construction, and he observed no sliding panels.
Digitized by Google
342 Appelldices to MI'. Hodg80n's Report
It was about 6.30 o'clock in the evening, and the light was good.
Mr. G. dol's not regard his examination as complete. The presence or
Madame Blavatsky's clothes suspended on the partition, Inconveniently pre-
vented him from scrutinising it ascarefullyas he would have liked to have done;
and he felt this inconvenience even altho\UCh Madame Blavatsky herself moved
some of the clothes apart and asked him to satisfy himself. They then
returned to the Occult Room, and Madame Blavatsky sat down with her back
to the Shrine, and drummed with herfinger nails upon a small table in front of
her. A curious, l"apid ticking was also heard apparently from the Shrine,
whicll resembled the ticking heard inside .a watchmaker's shop. Madame
Blavatsky suddenly asked if he had heard anything. Mrs. G. thought she
henrd a noise like the shutting of a door, but did not lI&y so at the time,
though she nfterwards told Mr. G. of this fact. Madame Blavataky remarked,
" I suspect the letter has gone." Mr. G. then opened the Shrine and found
his letter had disappeared.
Mr. G. waited some time at the headquarters for an answer t41 his letter,
but at last left without having received one. About two hours later, after
dinner, Mr. }Iohini came over to Mr. G.'s house (which is about a mile from
Madame Blavatsky's), bringing Mr. G.'sletter, upon the envelope of which
was written in blue pencil, "M(lhini-forward immediately to G. Sahib.-
K.H."
Mr. G. examined the envelope, which was scaled with his own signet
ring which he always wears on his left band, and the envelope appeared to
him at that time to be intact. He found no trace of the envelope's having
been opened. Mr. Mohini said the letter fell in the midst of them at Madame
Blavatsky's as they were talking, and that I".e had immediately set off with it
to Mr. G. Mr. G. opened the envelope by cutting the top edge. Upon
the lIy-leaf of his letter was written an answer to his question in blue
llencil, signed K. H.
Mr. G. had previouslyhoped tltat he might receive an immediate answer to
his letter, nnd after reviewing the circumstances of the incident, he concluded
tlmt there was a p088ibility that his letter might have been opened in some
way or other, after having been taken surreptitiously from the Shrinc through
the teak-panelled door which he had so cursorily examined.
He therefore wrote another letter addre88ed to Koot Hoomi, and in it
requested that the answer to it might fall in the open air outside his (Mr.
G.'s) own house. This letter he asked Mr. Mohiui to take, but Mr. Mohini
declined to do so ; and Madame Blavatskyafterwards wrote to Mr. G.• offering
reasons why Ius request could not be complied Witll.
Since these occurrences, Mr. G. has had no communication with
Madame Blavatsky.
Mr. G. kindly permitting me to examine tile envelope, I found certain
noteworthy peculiarities in the aeal-impre88ion. A portion of the wax bad
adhered to the seal, so tltat the paper was visible at one point near the centre
of the seal-imprcssion. This had been noted by Mr. G. at the time of his
making the impre88ion, and the scsI at first glance appeared to be entirely
intact. The right flap of the envelope, however, appeared crumpled, and a
lens revealed a slight crack on the right side of the seal, and also a very
Digitized by Google
On P/lcuomCila cOllllcctcd ICit/, Tlzcosqphy. 343
minute fracture on the same side, at tile very edge of the wax, beyond th&
limits of the seal-impression. It seemed as tllough a very small fragment of
wax had been broken away, and close inspection showed that the right
flap of tli~ envel~~ welS 'lI~t held at all by the wax. Cutting down the side-
edges of the envelope I found the rigllt flap llardly adllering at all to the rest.
of the paper, and the part which had been covered with gum presented the
appearance of having been steamed, or otherwise moisl;ened, though this is
somewhat difficult to determiue with any certainty. There was also a mark
of gum extending c.msiderably beyond the limit of the flap. The appearanoo
suggested that the right flap had been withdrawn, that a small drop of gum
had been placed near tho edge of the withdrawn flap, and that part of this
drop had oozed out beyond the line of the flap when the envelope was pressed
after replacing the flap. The colour of this gum was somewhat different
from the gum on the opposite flap, being yellower and dirtier than what
appeared to he the original gum of the envelope. There was also, as I after-
wards found, a mark of \vhat appeared to be gum, in a corresponding position
ori the enclosed note itself.
Mr. G. llas on various occasions handled the envelope, and it may b&
urged that the seal-impression held all the flap-joinings together when the
letter was written Illorc than a year previously. This, of course, cannot be
disproved, but it is important to observe that Mr. G.'s attention had not
been before given to the possibility that one of the under flaps might be
withdrawn as I have suggested, and he was unaware that the seal-impression
secured only three of the flaps. This is proved by the fact that he showed
me the sealed letter which he had offered to Mr_ llohini, and which he still
had in his posse88ion. The right-hand flap of this envelope also was free
from the seal-impression in precisely the same way as the flap of the
ntherenvelope.
From the appearances described I infer that Madame Blavatsky probably
opened the letter in the way implied above.
[p.S.-I had given to Mr. Sinnett in conversation an account of the above
incident, and shortly afterwards, at the General Meeting of May 29th, Mr.
Mohini informed me that he had heard a description of the case from Mr.
Sinnett. Mr. Mohini then proceeded to suggest that Mr. G. had omitted
to mention an important circumstance to me, viz., that Mr. G. had
attempted, when the letter in question was returned to him, to open it by
applying a heated knife-blade to the seal. Mr. Mohini, I inferred, had not.
heard every detail ofthe case as above given, and he apparently thought
that the disturbance of the seal and the crumpling of the envelope might be
accounted for by the attempt which he alleged Mr. G. had made. They
could not, however, be thus accounted for, and I felt certain, from my
examination of the seal, that no person could have made any attempt to
remove it by means of a heated knife-blade. Moreover, I thought it much
more probable that Mr. Mohini should have remembered an even~ which had
not occurred, than that Mr. G. should have omitted to inform me of the
circumatanceallegcd. Nevertheless, Mr. Mohini's statement was so explicit
that I considered myself bound to mention it at the meeting of June 26th.
when I had occasion to refer to the incident. In the meantime I had taken
the tint opportunity of writing to Mr. G. on the subject, and the following is
Digitized by Google
314 .Appendices to MI', HOtl08011'8 Rrport
his reply of June 25th, which, so far as I am conccrned in it, is in exact
accordance with my own recollectiolls:-
" Mohini's memory must either ha"e failed him or elae he must have
wilfully misrepresented the matter to you. I did NOT attempt to open the
seal of the letter, whicll I put into the eabinet, with a heated knife, hut I
did take another Bimilar eR1Iewpe and the 88l1le sea.li.nf{-wax and seal that I
had used for sealing that letter, and having sealed the envelope I tried to
see if a heated knife-blade would lift the seal and found it would not do SQ.
My wife was present andsaw nle do this, and now confirms my statement.
"It is not likely that I would do anything to the seal of the original cover
of the original letter, and if 1 had done so I should have told you of the fact
and you yourself would have discovered where the wax had been melted by
the hot knife-blade.
" The original seal, being made of wax, dropped blazing on the envelope,
burnt the papera little, that is, itsinged it brown,as you may remember I told
you j more()ver, a small piece stuck to my signet-ring and eaQ1e away with it,
thus rendering it imp0&3ible to attempt any trifting with the seal by means of
heat without my detecting it immediately, while any BUch attempt on my
part would probablyhave defaced the impreaaion of the signet-ring, which you
know was intact and perfect."]
APPENDIX VI.
{T"aE "lU.MASWA.VYS ..4.RM" PHENOMENO.V.
The teak door in its new position (..Me p. 222), seems to have been
utilised in connection with the following phenomenon.
Supplement to The Thernoplti&t, February, 1884.
In these days of scepticism :md unbelief, the following testimony to a
phenomenon, not eapable of being explained on any theory of trick or fraud,
will be not without use in exciting at le.ut a spirit of cairn inquiry in
reasonable minds.
On the 24th of November, lIre S. Ramaawamier and myself both went
to the Adya.r headqua.rters at about 9 p.m. We found Madame Blavatsky
seated in the verandah in front of the main building conversing with General
and Mrs. Morgan and Miss Flynn, then on a visit to the headqua.rters,
and a number of Chew and officers of the Theosophical Society. After
about an hour's conversation there, Madame Blavatsky wished good-night
to our European brethren and went upstairs to her own room, asking us
to follow her thither. Accordingly we went up. There were seven in all in
the room, which was lighted. Madame Blavatsky seated herself facing west
on a chair near a window in the north·eastern corner of the room.
S. Ramaawamier and myself sat on the floor, one behind the other, right in
front of and facing Madame Blavatsky, close by an open shelf in the wall on
our left. Babu Mohini Mohun Chatterji, M.A., B.L., (solicitor, Calcutta)
Me88rs. Babajee, Ananda, and Balai Chand Mallik, also seated on the floor
near us, opposite the wall-shelf and facing it. What bad originally been a.
window was closed with a thick wooden plank, which on careful examination
I found was immovably fixed to the window frame and thus converted into II.
Digitized by Google
011 Phellomena l'omU!ded teilA T"e~op"!I. 345
wall-shelf with two craBB board~. The plank behind was hung and tho
boards were covered and ornamented with black oil cloth and fringe. About
half-an-hour after conversation began, while S. Ramaswamier was talking
about certain important matters concerning himself and the others were
listening, a slight rustle of the oil cloth, hanging in the back of the middle
eompartment of the wall-shelf, was observed by the four gentlemen
seated opposite the same. From it, immediately after, was extruded a
large hand more brown in complexion than white, dressed in a close fitting
white sleeve, holding an envelope between the thumb and the forefinger.
The hand came just opposite my face and over the back of S. RanUUlwamier's
head, a distance of about two yards from the wall, and at a jerk dropped
the letter, which fell close by my side. All, except S. Ramaswamier, saw
the phantom hand drop the letter. It was visible for a few seconds, and
then vanished into air right before our eyes. I picked up the envelope,
which was made of Chinese paper evidently, and inscribed with some
(:haracters which 1 was told were Tibetan. 1 had seen the like before with
S. Ramaswamier. Finding the envelope was addreBBed in English to
.. Ramaswamy Iyer," 1 handed it over to him. He opened the envelope and
drew out a letter. Of the contents thereof I am not permitted to say more
than that they had immediate reference to what S. Rama310amier teal speakilil/
to ttl rathe,· IMf-miy alxfllt, atld that it tea, intended by his Gu,'u (18 a check on
hi, wkmenee ill tlte matte,·. As regardS the handwriting of the letter, it
was shown to me, and 1 readily recognised it as the same that 1 had seen in
other letters shown me long before by S. Ramaswamier as having been
received from his Guru (also Madame Blavatsky's master). 1 need hardly
add that immediately after 1 witneBSed the above phenomenon, I examined
the shelf wall, plank, boards, and all inside and outside with the help of a.
light, and was thoroughly satisfied that there was nothing in any of them
to suggest the pOBBibility of the existence of any wire, spring, or any other
mechanical contrivanCe by means of which the phenomenon could have been
produced. 1 M F T S
V. COOPOOSWAMY YER, .A., ...,
Zlth Nor:ember, 1883.
Pleader, Madura.
I" reply to my questions :-1 first questioned Mr. Coopooswamy Iyer
alone downstairs. He was very doubtful about the distance of the hand from
the wall, and seemed surprised that in his account the distance was given as
tlDO yards. He said it might be a yard or a yard and a-half. He had not
observed anything beyond the hand and part of the ann, had not looked
beyond this,-could not say whether it ended in a stick, or in nothing at all.
The hand and arm appeared from behind the hangings of the shelf, dropped
the letter, and were immediately gone. His examination of the shelf antl
planks behind appears to have been very incomplete. I took him upstairs
and asked him to describe the positions, and to hold Ilia finger at the point
which the "hand" reached. Madame Blavatsky was in the room, and
requested me to get the tape and measure the distance. The measuring tape
was in another room. 1 observed closely the position of Mr. C. Iyer's
finger before I left for the tape. 1 was away about half-a-minute, leaving
Madame Blavatsky talking with Mr. C. Iyer about the position. When I
returned the finger was at least "foot further away from the wall. The
distance then measured was 4ft. Din.
z
Digitized by Google
316 App('mlkes to MI'. Hodgsoll's R'port
1 received two accounta within a few minutes from Mr. RalJla8wamier as
to the respective positions of the sitters, and in his second account both be
and Mr. C. Iyer were represented as sitting in placea quite two feet nearer
the shelf than as deSClibed ill bis first account. Moreover, the words in tbe-
letter received by Mr. Ramaswamier were not more specific than might
easily have been written before the conversation referred to took place.
They were a general injunction beginning "Patience! Patience!"
Mr. Babajee did not see the hand, he was not looking.in that direetion
~t tile moment. He heard a sligbt noise and saw the letter on the floor.
Ananda (Mr. T. Vijiaraghava Charloo) saw the curtain before the shelf
stirring as though a wind was passing. He then saw a hand and arm come-
out from behind the curtain. It came out about a foot ora foot and Ii-half,
about up to the elbow. The letter fell, and his attention was drawn to the-
letter. Then hand and arm were gone.
After the sliding panel was shown in the teak door, tbe defence made was.
that the arm had come from the right side of the shelf, whereas the slidiJlg
panel was on the l#ft side. 1 found it perfectly easy, however, to thrust my
arm through the gap made when the panel slid, and to tunl it in the shelf
recess (which was concealed by tile curtains) so that it should appear beyond
the curtains in front of tbe right panel instead ofthe left, and as far forward
as described by Ananda. 1 discussed the discrepancies in the different.
accounta with Messrs. RalJla8wamier and CoopooswanlY Iyer i and Mr. Lane-
Fox, who afterwards heard of the different accounta, expressed his conviction
of the worthlessness of the phenomenon as 1\ test, and assured me thl\.t in
a later conversation with Madame Blavataky she admitted that the
" phenomenon" probably originated with and was carried out by the
Coulombs for the purpose of enabling them afterward,. to discredit other
" pbenomenl\ " more easily. Yet Madame Blavataky had sbortly before been
endeavouring to persuade me that the ann must have been "astral," and
urgmg how infinitely impossible it was for the" phenomenon" to have been
other titan 1\ genuine manifestation of the "occult power," which the
initiates of the "esoteric science" are alleged to possess.
According to M. Coulomb it was Babula's hand that appeared, by Madame
B1a.vataky:s instructions. This explanl\tion fita in well enougb Witll Ananda'.
account.
APPENDIX VII.
ACCOUNTS OF PHENOMENA DESCRIBED BY MR. MOHINI IN' HU!
DEPOSITION BEFORE THE COMMITTEE (.'*c &port, pp. tJfJ.!!45).
FIRST ANll SECOND ALLEOED ASTRAL APPARITIONS.
Account by MR. MOHINI.
MR. MOHINI: It was in the month of December, 1882, that I saw
the apparition of one of the Mahatmas for the first time. I do not remember
the preoise date, but it can be easily ascertained. It was a few days after
!.bo snniversary of tbe Theosophical Society was celebrated ill that year.
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena cOllnected Icitb TlIeo8ojJlly. 347
One evening, eight or ten of UI were litting on the balcony at the head-
quarters of the Society. I wall leaning over the railings, when at a diatance
I caught a glimpse of lOme lhining lubstance, which after a Mort time took
the form of a human being. This human form several times paased and re-
paued the place where we were. I Ihould think the apparition was viaiblo
for four or five minutea.
MR. SUCK: How far did it appear to be from you 7
MR. MOBINI: About 20 or 30 yarda.
MR. MYBRS: In what way ean you be lure that it W81 not an ol'Clinary
person 1
Mlt. MOBINI: From the polition in which it appeared. It appeared at a
place where thore W81 a declivity in the hill, the houae being at tho top of·
tho hill. There W8I also a bend at the lpot, 10 that if an ordinary human
being had been walking there it would have been impoaaible for him to ha\'e
been seen. I laW the whole figure, however, 10 that it mUlt have been
floating in mid-air.
MR. MYBRS: Other persona besidea youraeH laW it1
MR. MOBINI: Oh, yea. One W81 Nobin Krishna ~nnorji, who is deputy
collector at Berhampore, Moorahedabad, Bengal. Another W81 Ram8lwamier,
who is district registrar at Madura, Madras. A third W8I Pundit Chandra
Sekhara, wholiveaatBareilly, N.W.P.
Ma. MYBRS: All th088 witn8llel laW the aame figure that you did t
MR. MOBINI : Yea.
MR. MYBBS: Who obatlrved it first t
MR. MOBINI: It 19'81 first obaerved by Ram8lwamier andmyaelf.
Ma. MYBH8: And all agreed that it coul!! not be a real man walking in
that way 1
MR. MORINI: Certaiuly. It seemed to U8 to be the apparition of tho
original of the portrait in Colonel Olcott'l room, and which is aaaocisted with
one of the Mahatmas.
MR. MYBRS: In fact, Colouel Olcott's Master 1
MR. MOBINI: Yel.
MR. MYBRS: What amount of light was there at the time 1
MR. MORINI: Thia occurred abouthalf-paat nine or ten o'clockonabright
moonlight night.
lb. MYERS: ~rhe figure walked up and down 1
MR. MORINI: Yea, and then disappeared.
MR. MYEBS: In what way did it diaappear 1
MR. MORINI: It aeemed to melt away.
MR. STACK : Could you distinguish the features at the diJltance at which
yc.u wero?
MR. MORI~U: Oh, yea, and the dreaa, the turban, and everything.
MR. MYERS: What height did tho figure appear to be 1
MR. MORINI : I Ihould think it was aix feet or 10-& very tall man.
MR. 'MYEBS: Because we heard from Colonel Olcott that his Mahatma
was aomething like 6ft. 5in. in height.
MR. MORINI: I could not tell exactly, but it was very tall. I had leOD
the portrait several times. It was the first picture of a Mahatma I had Ol'or
seen, 10 that it made a great impreaaion UJlC'D me. .
Z 2
Digitized by Google
:UB A.ppendice8 to Mr. Hodg8on'8 Report
MR. MVBBS: When was the second time that you saw an astral appear-
ance 1
MR. MOHINl: Two or three days after that. We were sitting 011 the
ground-on the rock, outside the house in Bombay, when a figure appeare:l
Do abort distance away. It was not the same figure na on the first occasion.
MR. MYBRII: In what way are you sure it was not a living man1
MR. MOBINI: You could easily find that out from the cblour. This was
the same shining colour as before.
MR. MulI.8: Did the apparition seem to walk or to float 1
MR. MOBINI: It seemed to float. There was no sound accompanying it.
MR. MYBlI.8: You say that it was a shining substance. Was it phos-
phoreacent1
Mit. MORINI: It seemed like phosphorus in the dark. The 11air was
dark, and could be distinguished from the face.
MR. GURNEY: Going back to the first apparition, it soema somewhat
Btartiing to be told that you could recognise the face at such a distance oft',
and in moonlight. Do you feel sure that if you had seen the face alo.ne you
would Itave recognised it 1
MR. MOHINI: I cannot answer that. I saw the whole thing, and the
whole thing. taken together, produced upon me the impression that it was
the apparition of the original of the portrait in Colonel Olcott's room. Had
I Been the face alone, peering out of the dark, I do not know whether I
should have recognised it or not.
MR. STAOK:: Do all the Mahatmas dress alike1
MR. MORINI: No. Colonel Olcott was present on the first occasion,
and, as I have already stated. the apparition that appeared was that of his
Master.
MR. MYBlI.8: On the two occasions did all who were present see the
apparitions 1
MR. MORINI: Yes. •
MR. MYBlI.8: Can you give us the names of the persons W]10 were presellt
Oil the second occasion 1
MR. MORINI: They were the same persons that were present on tile
first occasion.
MR. MuRS: Did the apparition say anything on the second occasion 1
Ma. MORINI: No.
[The following accounts were· taken down by me in writing at the time
the statements were made to me by the several witneaaes. I received also
additional deacliption of the spots where the alleged astral figures were £laid
to have appeared. I was thus able to teat to a certain extent the accuracy
of the accounts, when I visited the old headquarters in Bombay.]
Account by MR. R.uuswAlllBR (District Registrar, MAdura).
1.
At the end of the following year (1882), at the headquarters at Bombay•
• veral of us were together on the upper balcony. I am unable to recollect
any of the others. I suddenly saw, at the distance of abcut 15 pwes. a
gleaming 8llbstance which aaaumed the figure of a man. It was not walking
on the ground, but appeared to be gliding through mid-air among the top-
Digitized by Google
0" PI,enome,UJ eDlwected flJill•.Theosophy. 349
most branches of the trees. It glided forwards and backwards four or five
times. I could not recogniae the person, could not see whether it had a
beard or not, cannot say whether it was tall or not. The night was moon·
light. Time between eight and nine p.m.
2.
About the same time, at the end of 1882, I was sitting with Madame
Blavatsky, Madame Coulomb, Norendra, Janaki, Nobin K. Bannerji, and
others in a verandah adjoining Madame Blavatsky's writing-room.
On one side was a hill gradually rising to a top. The hill was covered
with thorns. I saw something like a flash of light, and graduallyitassumed the
figure of a }M'rson about 20 feet distant. Time between 7 and 8 p.m.
I cannot say whether it was moonlight or not. I did not recogniae the figure ;
cannot say whether it had a beard or not; cannot say whether it had a
turban or not. Madame went near the foot of the hill and exchanged somo
signs with the figure. Madame then went to her room by the path on our
side, and the figure went in the direction of MadaDle's room by the other side.
AfterwlU'da Madame came to us in great excitement and said that one of
the delegates had polluted the house, and it was for this reason the figure
could not come near UL Shortly after the figure again appeared on the hill.
and suddenly vanished, leaving a brightness which gradually faded away.
Account by MR. NOBIN KJusHlfA BANKBJLJI (Deputy Magistrate and
Deputy Collector, and Manager-General of Wards' Estates in Moorshe.
dabad, Bengal).
1.
On the occasion of the seventh anniversary. in 1882, one evening before the
anniversary celebration, at Ilbout 7 p.m., I was sitting in the balcony of
the headquarters in Bombay, in company with Norendra Nath Sen, Mobini,
Madame, Ramaswamier, and several others. We were talking when Madame
said, "Don't move from your seat until I say," or something to that eft"ect.
This made us expect that something was about to happen. Some were
standing near the railing of the balcony, others were seated a little back.
After a few moments those standing nearthe rails laW something, and made
some remarks which induced the rest of the party, excepting myself and
Norendra, to get up and go to..wards the rails, and look at the object. We
didn't stir, as nothing further was said by Madame, but kept turning our
heads in expectation of seeing something. But we didn't perceive anything.
Some four or five minuteli after, we inferred from the remarks made,
that the others had seen some luminous astral figure walking to and fro
below the balcony on tbe side of the hill. It was not pitch dark. Objects
could be seen at a distance, but not distinguished clearly.
2.
The same party with the addition of Mr. Ghosal were sitting together OD
the Dortb. extremit.y of the bungalow facing the sea, at about 7.30 p.m.•
when some remark of Madame's made us expect to see something inlme·
diately. Shortly after we saw a form standing on a rock close to the
adjoining bungalow, about 10 ylU'da distant. The light was about the sarna
Digitized by Google
350 .tl.ppelUlice, 10 Mr. Dodg8011'8 Report
as on tlle previous occaaion. There Wl\8 no tree near and the figure cuuld
be seen clearly. The figure Wl\8 ,dreaaed in a white flowing garment, with
a lIght coloured turban, and a dark beard. The figure was that of a man
of apparently ordinary size, but I,could not recognise who it was. From
my description Colonel Olcott recogni.Jed one of the Mahatmas. He men-
tioned the name, which we afterwards found to be correct, l\8
Madame and Damodar corroborated it. The figure seemed faintly luminous,
but I am unable now to recollect any further details concerning its
df'.acription. The figure gradually \-aniahed, and for a minute or two after-
wards the place where it had been aeemed to be gleaming with a
milky brightness. The rock itself has IODle dH.te and other trees upon it,
bu~ the spot where the figure appeared was bare. The figure was standing
atill when we saw it.
Account by MR. CHANDRA SEKHARA. (Teacher in High School, Bareilly,
N.W.P.).
1.
In 1882 I went to Bombay in November, reaching there on tJle morning
C)f 26th inst. The anniversary was postponed from Noveluber 27th to
D~ember 7th. On the evening of the 27th, about 8 p.m., we, i.e., about
10 or 11 of us, including the delegates, were seated in the balcony with
Madame B. and Colonel Olcott. Mohini M. Chatterji, Biahen Lall, and
Janaki Nath GhOllaI were present. We were chatting together, and Madame
'Blavatsky, with some other brethren, quickly rose up, and looked towards the
garden below the balcony. I rose up and looked out, but not in tJIe proper
direction. J. N. Ghoaal pointed me to the prol>er quarter, and I saw a
luminous figure walking to and fro below the balcony, on the third terrace
field. [This was explained to mean that there were two fields and a portion
of a third between the speaker and the figure.1 Each field is about 10 yards
wide. The third field is full of thorny trees, 10 that it.is difficult for a man
to walk freely. The trees varied in size, and the fQliage occupied a good
deal of space. Tho figure was upright. I saw him walk three times over
a distance of about 40 yards, and then disappear. There was no moonlight.
The figure appeared nearly 6ft. high, well·built, but I could not distin·
guish the features. I could not tell whether he had a beard. My sight is
ordinary.
2.
The following day we were seated in the verandah near the Occult
Room, when Madame said that she felt IOmething extraordinary. The tinle
was between 7 and 8 p.m. Suddenly we saw the luminous body of one
who was explained to DIe to be another Mahatma, on the high rock adjoin-
ing tJle Occult Room. The distance of tJIe figure was about 16 yards.
Madame Coulomb was with us. I could not distinguish the features clearly,
nut sufficient for recognition. I cannot say whether tJIe figure had a beard.
AI& BOOn as we saw the figure, Madame Coulomb exclainted, in a nervous
manner, "There! There!" And in a minute Colonel Olcott said, "Madame
[Blavatsky1, go to the foot of tho roc~, and talk to the Mahatma.II Madame
went to the rock, and in a short time after she came back ahivering, and said
Digitized by Google
Oil PltellomeWJ cOimeckd tcjfl, Tlte08oph!J. 351
the Mahatma would be willing to come forward to talk to the audience, but
there was some man in our company whose sin wAs so great that it would be
difficult for the Mahatma to approach, and therefore he had to go away.
The figure disappeared suddenly before Madame returned.
Account by MR. J. N. GROSAL (.Allahabad).
One evening, at the Bombay headquarters, on the 27th or 28th of
November, 1882, about 9 or 10 p.m., Madame Blavatsky, Mobini, Chandra
Sekbara, Damodar, Nobin Krishna Bannerji, Norendra Nath Sen, and a
few others besides myself, were sitting in the balcony. Some of them had
been called there by me, as I was then expecting that some phenomeno.
would take place. My attention was drawn by a sound among some trees
down below, about 10 yards from the balcony. The sound was like the
stirring of leaves. Immediately after I saw the tall figure of a man
apparenUy more than 6ft. in height, clad in white, ncar the trees. It was
a clear moonlight night. The figure was well-built. I could not distinguish
the features very well, saw something like a beard, but not very distinctly.
A white turban was on the head. The figure begall to walk backwards and
forwards for two or three minutes. Madame Coulomb joined the group,
and the figure disappeared, making the same kind of sound, like stirring of
leaves, which I heard before the appearance of the figure. But it appeared to
me, and a few of thOle present were of the same opinion, that the figure
walked over one of the trees and suddenly disappeared. Not being able to
-distinguish the features, I inquired of Madame, and was told it was the
astral appearance of her Master.
Next morning I went to the spot where the figure appeared, and found
the spot so low that anyone walking on the ground could not haye been en·
tirely scen from the balcony.
[This is the only" astral figure" Mr. Ghow has seen.]
Account by MR. NORENDRA NATR SEN (Editor of the Indian Mirrtn', Calcutta).
I saw the astral figure on the rock at the Bombay headquarters. It was
, or 8 p.m., and the figure was about 20 yards distant. I recognised no more
than that it appeared to be the figure of a man, who came down fl"(ml the
rock and went with Madame Blavatsky into her room.
THIRD ALLEGED ASTRAL APPARITION.
MR. MORINI: The third instance which I will describe was the last that
.occurred just before my leaving India. We were sitting ill the drawing·
room on the first 1I00r of the house at Adyar. It was about 11 o'clock at
!light. The window looks over a terrace or balcony. In one comer of the
room there appeared a thin vapoury substance of a shining white colour.
Gradually it took shape, and a few dark spots beCaDle visible, and after
a short time it was the fully-formed body of a man, apparently 8S solid M
an ordinary human body. This figure Imssed and repassed us several times,
approaching to within a distance of a yard or two from where we were
standing near the window. It approached so near that I think if I had Pll:t
out my hand I might have touched it.
Digitized by Google
352 .Appendices to Jh', Hodg801l'8 Report
MR. STACK: Did you see the face clearly 1
MR. MOBINI: Oh, yes; very clearly.
MR. MYEBB: And it was Mr. Sinnett's correspondent?
MR. MOBINI: Yes.
MR. STACK: How did you identify him as Koot Hoomi 1
MR. MOBINI : Because I hsd seen his portrait several times before.
MR. STACK: Had you ever seen him in the flesh 1
MR. MOJluu: I cannot answer that, I explained to you the reason
why I could not. Colonel Olcott can, but I cannot.
MR. MYEBB: Are we to understand, then, that, "'hen favours are
accorded by a Mahatma for the sake of the Chela's own spiritual advance-
ment, there is a rule which forbids the Chela to describe them, with the
view of preventing spiritual pride 1
MR. MOJlINI: I have not been told the reason, but tJl8.t is, I believe, thl)
reason.
MR. MYEBB: Will you continue your account 1
MR. MOBINI: After a while I said that as I should not see him for a long
time, on account of my going to Europe, I begged he would leave soma
tangible mark of his visit. The figure tJlen raised his hands and seemed to
throw something at us. The next moment we found a shower of roses
falling over us in the room-roses of a kind that could not have been pro-
cured on the premises. We requested the figure to disappea1' from that side
of the balcony where there was no exit. There was a tree on the other side,
and it was in order to prevent all suspicion that it might be something that.
had got down the tree, or anything of that kind, t.hat we requested hun to-
disappear from the side where there was no exit. The figure went over t<;
that spot and then disappeared.
MR. MYEBB: You saw its disappearance 1
MR. MOBINI: Oh yes, it passed us slowly until it came to the edge or
the balcony, and then it was not to be seen any more.
MR, MYERS: The disappearance being sudden 1
MR. MOBINI: Yea.
MR. GURNEY: Was the height of tho balcony such that anyone could.
have jumped down from it 1
MR. MOBINI: The height was 15 or 20 feet, ana, moreover, there were:
people downstairs and allover the house, so that it would have been impOBBi:
ble for a person to have jumped down without being noticed. Just below
die balcony thero is an open lawn. There were several persons looking at.
the moment, and my own idea is that it would have been perfectJy UnpOBBibl&
for a person to havo jumped down.
MR. STACK: Why 1
MR. MOBlNI: There is a SDlall flight of steps just below the balcony, and.
if a Dlan had jumped from the balcony he must have fallen upon the steps.
and broken his legs. When. the figure passed and re-passed us we heard
nothing ofany footsteps. Besides myself, Damodar and Madame Blavatsky
were in the room at the time.
Mr. MYEBB: Did this figure speak?
MR. MOBINI : Not on that occasion. What it did could not be called.
speaking.
Digitized by Google
011 Plte/lomena cOllnected fCit/~ TlIeosophl/. 353
MR. STACK: Were you all in the room when this occulTed, or out on tha
balcony 1
MR. MOHINI: 111 the room, with the window Opell.
MR. MuRS: What light was there on the balcony 1
MR. MOHINI: The mootdight, and the figuro came to wiUtin so short a.
distance that the light, which was streaming out of the window, fell upon
it. This was at the Madras headquarters, about either the end of January
or tho beginning of February last; in fact, just before I left Madras.
MR. STACK: What kind of roses were they that they could not be grown
at Madras?
MR. MORINI: I said th'lt they could not have been procured 011 tha
premises, though, indeed, I have not seen any such roBe8 at Madras.
MR. STACK: What was the colour of the figure? Was it perfectly
natural?
MR. MOHINI: When it came, it was just like a natJraI mall.
MR. MyERS: Can you give any reason why this figure was, different in
colour and aspect from those which you saw on the fonner occasions?
MR. MORINI : The luminosity* depends upon whether all the principles.
which go to make up a double are there, without any gross particles being
attracted. . ,
l\1R. MYERS: Groaa matter is present when the figure is non-luminous?
MR. MORINI: YC8.
MR. STACK: This figure looked like an ordinary man? If you had not
believed that it was the Mahatma Koot Hoomi, you would have thought it.
was an ordinary man 1
MR. MOHINI: I never would have thought that it was an ordiluuy man.
because it was such a striking figUl"C.
[See the comments on this case lip. 241-244.]
LETTER RECEIVED AT PARIS.
[See COlllIDents on this case, p. 245.]
Account by MR. MORINI.
MR. MORINI: I was staying in Paris, occupying apartments at No_
4G, Rue Notre Dame des Champs. Mr. Keightley and Mr. Oakley
were in the house witll me. On that morning we were discuBBing as to
whether we should go into the country, to a place where Madame
Blavatsky was then staying, and we decided upon doing 80. The two gentle-
men I have named went to their respective rooms to get ready to start by the
next train. I 11'&8 sitting in the drawing-room. Within a few minutes, Mr.
Keightley came back from his room, and went to that of Mr. Oakley. In
doing 80 he pasaod me, and I followed him.
MR. STACK: W&8 the dl"l\wing-room between the two bedrooms?
MR. MORINI: The hall al80 intervened, I think. To go frem one bed-
room to another the ll&IIiest way 11'&8 through the drawing-room. Arriving
• I have no doubt that what Mr. l\Iohini terms the "luminosity" was
merely the moonlight reftected from the white robes of the figure. On the
.. fonner occa.sioll8" there was moonlight, but ill this third case there was no
moonlight-Mr. l\lohini's statement that there was being erroneous. (See p. 244. ~
Digitized by Google
354 .ApjH'lIdicl'S fo ..VI'. Hodgsoll', Rf'pol't
ill the bedroom we found Mr. Oakley talking with Madame Blavataky's Indian
servant. Mr. Keightley inquired if Mr. Oakley had called. Mr. OI\lrley
replied in the negative, and Mr. Keightley then returned to his own room,
followed by myself. TIlere WI\S a table in the middle of tile room occupied by
Mr. Keightley. He had pIlSBed the edge of tile table nearest the door,
and WI\S about one foot Md a·half distant-I had not yet entered the room-
when, on tile edge of the table nearest tile door, I saw a letter. The
-envelope was of the kind always used by one of the Mahatml\S. Many
'Buch envelopes are in my poBIMIIISion, I\S well as in the possession of Mr.
Sinnett and otllers. The moment I caught sight of it I stopped short and
called out to Mr. Keightley tQ turn back and look. He tunled back and
at once saw the letter on the table. I I\Sked him if he had seen it tIlere
before. He answered in the negative, and said that had it been tIlere he
must have noticed it. I\S he had taken his watch and chain out and put tIlem
on the table. He said that he WI\S Bure tile letter was not there when he
paued tile Bpot, I\S the envelope WI\S too Btriking not to have caught hlB
Bight.
MR. STACK: What are these envelopea 7 Are tIley l)8culiar to the UBe
of Maltatml\S 1Or are they ord~nary Thibetan envelopeB 1*
MR. MOBon : I have only Been tIlem used by MaltatmaB.
MR. STACK : They are made of paper, and have Chineae eharaoters on
them, I think 1
MR. MOBINI: YeB.
MR. STACK: TIle reason I uk is that Colonel Olcott, in his conversation,
Bpoke of them, I tIlillk, I\S if they were Thibetan envelopes. I thought
~ey might be in general UBe in Thibet.
MR. MOWN!: I have never been to Thibet, nor have I ever received a
letter from thenc.e. Indeed, I do not believe that there is any postal Bernce
witll Thibet.
MR. GURNEY : It would not be a hopeful place to communicate Witll,
then.
MR. STACK: But they might manufacture Buch envelopeB for UBe among
the officialB there.
MR. MOBINI: I have Been one Thibetan pedlar, but he did not offer me
any Buch article for sale. Returning to Mr. Keightley, he alao said tllat he
had been looking for something on tile table.
MR. MYER.'J: What other persona had been in th'3 apartment 7
MR. MOBINI: MYBelf, Mr. Keightley, Mr. Oakley, and Madame
Blavataky'B Indian Bervant.
MR. MYER.'J: Our object would be to ascertain whether anybody couM
118ye placed the letter in the room during Mr. Keightley's absence. Do I
understand that while Mr. Keightley was absent from his room yourself,
Mr. Oakley, and the Indian servant were in bis sight all the time 1
MR. MORINI: Yes.
MR. MYERS : Was the outer door of the house closed at the time 1
.MR. MORINI: Yea.
MD.. MyER.'J: Do you feel morally certain that nobody WaB secreted in the
room 1
• See evidence of Mr. A O. Hume, p. 275.
Digitized by Google
Oil Plienomena (-Qill/ected -/rut, TlIe08oplly. 355
MR. MORINI: I do. The letter was directed to myself, and it was opened
in their presence.
MR. MYER.~ : What were the contents of the letter?
MR. MORINI: The letter referred to BOrne matters of a private character,
and ended with a direction to me to take down my friends to the place in the
country.
MR. MYERS: Thus appearing to show a knowledge of events of the
moment?
MR. MORINI: Just so.
MR. MYERS: Could the letter have been written BOrne days before,
and the allusion as to taking your friends into the country inserted after-
wards?
lla. MORINI: No ; because Mr. Keightley amI Mr. Oakley only came to
the house by accident that morning.
Ma. STACK: On what floor were these rooms 1
MR. MOBINI: On the first floor.
Ma. MYERS: Upon what did the windows look?
MR. MOBINI : One of them looked out upon the yard.
Ha. MYERS: Do you consider it impoSBible that somebody could have
climbed up to the window and thrown the letter into the room 1
MR. MORINI: Absolutely impoSBible. Mr. Keightley was only absent a
few seconds.
Ma. MYERS: Could nobody have reached the window without a ladder 'I
MR. MOBINI: Certainly not.
MR. MYERS: Do you remember whether the winduw was open or not?
Ma. MORINI: Most likely it was not open.
MR. MyERS: Was the yard which you referred to the court-yard of the
hotel?
MR. MORINI : The back court-yard.
Ma. MYERS: Had you observed any men moving about ill the yard
during your stay?
MR. MOHINI: I had not observed any.
MR. MYERS: What language was the letter written in 1
MR. MORINI: In English, and I recognised the handwriting as that of Mr.
Sinnett's correspondent. Were I to show it to Mr. Sinnett he would at once
identify it.
Account by Ma. A. COOPER-OAKLEY, B.A. (Camb.).
In reply to my inquiry :-Madame Blavatsky, Mr. Keightley, and Mr.
Mohini had been staying together for about 3 days in the rooms in question.
The day before the occurrence described, Madame B. had gone to Enghien.
Mr. Oakley went frequently to the Paris apartments, and might be
expected to call every day. On this particular morning he called at about
:t,L30 a.m., and after some conversation as to what they should do, they
decided to go to Engbien. Mr. Oakley went into a sort of spare room [to
shave]. Mr. Keightley went to his own room, and in 2 or 3 minutes
came in to Mr. Oakley, and asked if Mr. Oakley had called him. He had
heard his name called-Bert. [Bertram.] Mr. Keightley then left Mr.
Oakley, and after a short interval returned, and asked him to come and look
at something he had received. Mr. Oakley went back with him, and saw
Digitized by Google
856 Appl'Jldi(~e8 to Mr. HodUflOIl'8 Report
upon a large round table, about 3 paces from the door of Mr. KeightIey'.
room, a letter. The letter was on the edge of the table, nearest the door.
It WI\II addresaed to Mohini, and I\IIked him to come with his frWiuls to
Enghien.
Mr. Oakley is positive that no one WI\II in his own room but himself when
Mr. Keightley entered. He believes that Babula WI\II in a small washroom
between the two bedrooms, and is eertain that Babula WI\II on the same fiat.
Mr. Oakley volunteered the remal·k that 1\11 a question of strict evidence, the
case WI\II vitiated by the presence of Babula in tile neighbourhood.
The two bedrooms and washroom opened on the same side into a.
paaaage, and Mr. Mohini was in a sitting-room on the otller side of tile
pauage. The natural way of »l\II8ing from one bedroom to the otller w....
along tile paaaage past the washroom.
In a later conversation I learnt from Mr. Oakley that as Mr. KeightIey
retunJed to Ilis room, Mr. Mohini p&88Od into Mr. Keightley's room just in
front of Mr. Keightley, and first saw tile letter. Mr. KeightIey explained
to Mr. Oakley that the letter was not on the table when he kft the room, as
he had been placing some articles on the table, &0., and must have obaerved
it had it been there. Mr. Oakley remarked that he tIlought it poaaible for
Babula to have slipped into the room immediately after Mr. KeightIey's leav-
ing it, and to have deposited the letter on tile table, and departed without.
having been seen in the act.
.Account by MR. B. KmGBTLEY, B..A. (Camb.).
IIHeply tv my illquil*1f (June 24t1l, 1885) :-Mr. KeightIey says that he
was living ill till! rooms at tile time, but that Mr. Oakley arrived unexpectedly,
Mr. KeightIey being unaware that Mr. Oakley was even in Paris. Mr.
Oakley had not been to the rooms previously. Mr. KeigbtIey heard his
name called and left his own room to inquire if Mr. Oakley had called him.
He proceeded to the ro0111 where Mr. Oakley was engaged. There were
two ways of entering this room after paBBing a short distance along the
pall8&ge upon which 1\lr. Keightley's room opened.
One way \\'1\11 through the corner of °a small drcB8ing-room between Mr.
KeightIey's rool11 and the room where Mr. Oakley tIlen was; another way
was through the drawing-room where Mr. Mohlni was seated. 0 Mr.
KeightIey is unable to recollect certainly which way was taken by him, and
he cannot be certain whether he actually went into Mr. Oakley's room, but
thinks he went just inside. .After asking Mr. Oakley whether he had
called his (Mr. Keightley's) name [Bert], and receiving Mr. Oakley's reply in
the ne~tive, he returned immediately to his own room, and Mr. Mohini
followed him on his return. Mr. KeigbtIey on returning lUld entered his
room and bad not quite paBBed the table when Mr. Mohini, who was barely
inside tile door, called out. He was about 3 paces from the table. Mr.
KeightIey turned round and saw tile letter lying on the table, between him-
self and the door, and at such a distance fro111 him that he could reach tlJe
letter by leaning over. Mr. Mohini bad not touched tile letter, whieh was
lying squarely 011 tile table as tIlough neatly placed there. The letter was
beyond the reach of Mr. Mohini. Mr. Keightley had been looking for some
object just before leaving his room, and had eleared that end of tile table
Digitized by Google
Oil PhCllomCIUJ eomlccted ICitl~ Tltf!osop"!I. 337
where the letter appeared, placing moreover his ring an(l eyeglaaaea ,upon
the table; 80 tbat he is quite certain that the letter was not on the table
when he left his room. Ha feela sure also that the letter must have attracted
his attention had it been on the table when he entered his room on returning.
Mr. Keightley went back to Mr. Oakley to ask him to come and see the
letter, which until then he thinks had remained untoucbe(l. Mr. Keightley
thinks that Babula was in the dreaaing-room at the time. This dreaaing-
room opened into the comer room where Mr. Oakley WIUI, but not into Mr.
Keightley's room.
After I had read Mr. Oakley's account to him, Mr. Keightley thought he
oould negativft the poaaibility referred to by Mr. Oakley, that Babula could
have placed the letter on the table. Mr. Keightley thinks the time of his
absence was 80 short that Babula could not have escaped being seen by him,
~omewhere in the room or in the paaaage, while ho was returning.
Account written by Ma. KBIOHTLBY, in June, 1884.
On the following day, [May 14th,] Madame Blavatsky and Mr. Judge
being both at Enghien, whare they had gone the previous day, I was sitting
about 10.30 a.m., in the salon chatting with Mr. Oakley and Mr. Mohini.
We had decided not to go to Enghien, and the subject bad been dropped,
when I felt a sudden impulse to go there, This suggestion of a change of
plan was acceptA!d after a little hesitation, Mr. Mohini' having the same
feeling. I therefore went to our room to get ready, and WIUI engaged in
arranging my toilette when I thought I heard Mr. Oakley calling me. Going
-out into the passage, just outside tht'door, I called to know what he wanted.
Finding that he had not called me, I TO-entered th'l room, Mr. Moluni
following me from the sal!;n at a yard or two's distance. I had reached the
middle of the room when I heard hinl ('.aIling me from the doorway, and
turning round J aaw him standing on the threshold. I must here state that
needing a certain article which I thought was on the table, I had thoroughly
.searched everything on it, and had cleared a space at the ond next the door
to put my ring and glaaaea on.
On turning lound then, I at once noticed a Chinese envelope lying as if
arefully placed there, on the cleared end of the table next the door. This
envelope I at once recognised as being like those used by Mahatma K. H.,
and also recognised his writing in the addreaa. Having called my friend Mr.
Oakley, llr. Mohini opened the envelope, which contained a long letter from
his Master K.H. (of 3pagea), and concluded with an order to him to take
Mr. Oakley and myself with him to Enghien for a few hours, thus showing
.an acquaintance with the question previously under diacuaaion, and also the
fact, known only to three or four persona in London, and about the same
number in Paris, that my friend Mr. Oakley was then ill Paris and actually
. in the house. Mr. Oakley was staying with BOrne friends about 20 minutes
walk distant, while he was in Paria.
TIlE 8TRANGB VOI<:B.
[The following passage from Mr. Mohini's delJOaitioll may alao be
worthy of note.]
MR. MOHnu: Thereis one other circUlllBtance that! think I ought to state.
It seemed to me a crucial teat. 1 was IHl&ted one night with Madame Blavatsky
Digitized by Google
358 Appendict's to Mr. Hocig8ol#'sRt'port
ill her room. I had addressed a certain question to one of the Mahatmas.
and Madame Blavataky told me I would luwe a reply, and should hear the
Mahatma's own voice.
MR. GUltNEY: Had you asked him before ?
MR. MOHINI: Yes, by letter. I had asked him the question; to which
Madame Blavat&ky said I should have a reply ill his own voice. Madame
Blavatsky said, .. You shall hear his voice." I thought how should I know
that it was not Madame Blavatsky ventriloquising. I began to hear some
peculiar kind of voice speaking to me from one comer of the room. It WIUr
like the voice of BOmebody coming from a great distan" through a long
tube. It was as distinct as if a person 'Were speaking in the room, but it had
the peculiar characteristic I have indicated. As BOon as I heard the voice I
wanted to satisfy myaelf that Madame Blavat&ky "'as not ventriloquising.
A word was uttered and Madame Blavatsky would repeat it. It s(,
happened that before she had finished speaking I heard another word
uttered by the "oice, so that at one and the same time there were two
voices speaking to me. Madame Bla"atsky, by whose side I was seated.
repeated the words fur no particular reason, BO far as I am aware, and I
came to the conclusion that the Mahatma had known what my thoughts
were.
[Concerning this incident, I necd only remind the reader of the hollow in
the wall, which was near the comer of Madame Blavatsky's room. Tho
confederate may have been Babula, previously instructed in the reply, and
with a mango loaf in his mouth to disguise his voice,]
APPENDIX VIII.
EXPERIENCES OF MR. BAMASWAMIER-
As considerable importance has been attached to the experiences of Mr.
Ramaswamier, it will be best to gh'e the reader full opportunity of judging
for himself what they come to. His first sight of a "Mahatma" is described
as follows (" Hints on Esoteric Theosophy," No. I, pp. 72·73):-
[,CERTIFICATE. ]
"Bombay, December 28th, 9 p.m., 1881.
"The undel'8igncd, returning a few moments since from a carriage ride
with Madame Blavat&ky, saw, as the ClUTiage approached the house, a man
upon the balcony over the l)()IU cuche"e, leaning against the balustrade, and
with the moonlight shining full upon hUll. He was dressod in white, and
wore a white FeMa. on his head. His beard was black, and llis long black
hair hung to his breast. Olcott and DamudaI' at once recognised him as the
'Illustrious.'· He raised his hand and dropped a letter to us. Olcott jumped
from the can'iago and l'ecovered it. It was written in Tibetan charactel'8,
and signed with his familiar cipher. It was a message to Ramaswamier, Ul
reply to a letter (in a closed em'elope) which he had written to the BrotIler
1\ "hort tune before we went out for the ride. M, Coulomb, who was reading
"A name by which Colonel Olcott's Cllohan. is known amongst us.-H.X.
Digitized by Google
Oil Plicl/omella cOIII/ceted tcith TI,eo8opl1!1. 359
inside the house, and a short distance from the balcony, neither saw nOl'
heard anyone pass through the apartment, and no one else was in tI1G
bungalow, except Madame Coulomb, who was asleep in her bedroom•
.. Upon descending fl'Om the carriage, our whole party illllllediately went
upstairs, but the Brother had du.appeared.
"H. S. OL<:OrI'.
"DAMODAR K. MAVALANKAR."
"The undel'lligned further certifies to Mr. --that from tIle time when
he gave the note to Madame Blavatsky until the Brother dropped the answer
from the balcony, she was not out of his sight.
"S. RAMAIIWAMIBR, F.T.S., B.A.
" District Registrar of Assurances, Tinnevelly•
.. P.S.-Babula was below in the l)Qrte-coo1..et·e, waiting to open thG
carriage door, at the time when the Brother dropped the letter from above.
The coachman also 8Il.W him distinctly.
"S. RAMAIIW.uuBR.
.. DAMODAR K. MAVALA.NKAR•
.. H. S. OLeOrI'."
The following is Mr. Ramaswamiel"s accollnt of what subaequently
occurred to him in the North, published in The ThOOllOpilist for December,
1882, pp. 67-69. Jt is abridged from "How A' CHBLA 'roUND.HI8 'GURU.'"
(Being extracts from a private letter to Damodal' K. Mavalankar, Joint
Recording Secretary of the ThOOllOphical Society.)
" When we met last at Bombay I told you what had happened to me at.
Tinnevelly. My health having been disturbed by official work and worry, I
applied for leave on medical certificate and it was duly granted. One day in
September last, while I was reading in my room, I was ordered by the audible
voice of my blessed Guru, M--- Maharsi, to leave all and proceed
illllllediately to Bombay, whence I had to go in search of Madame
Bla"atsky wherever I could find her and follow !ler wherever shG
went. Without losing a moment, I closed up all my affairs and left· the
station." Mr. Ramaswamier then describes how after journeying about, he-
at last found Madame Blavatsky at Chandernagore, and followed her to
Darjeeling. " The first days of her arrival Madame Blavatsky was living
at the house of a Bengalee gentleman, a Theosophist, was refusing to see
anyone; and preparing, as I thought, to go again somewhere 011 the borders
of Tibet. To all our importunities we could get only this answer from her:
that we had no business to .tick to lind follow Mr, that she did not want us,
and that she had no right to disturb tIle Mahatmas with all sorts of questioM
that concerned o~ly the questioners, for they knew their own business best.
In despair I determind, com8 tchat miflht, to cross the frontier, which is about
a dozen miles from here, and find the Mahatmas,or-DIB." He describea
how he started on October 5th, crossed the river" which forms the boundary
between the British and Sikkhim territories," walked o~ t~ll ,dark, spent.
the night in a wayside hut, and on the following morning continued his
journey.
.. It was, I think, between 8 and 9 a.m. and I was following the road
to the to}Vn.of .Sikkhim whence, I was 888ured by the people J met on the.
Digitized by Google ..'
360 Appel/dices to M,.. Hodgsol/'s Rrport
road, I could cross over to Tibeteasily in my pilgrim's garb, when I suddenly
saw a 80litary horseman galloping towards me from the opposite direction.
From his tall stature and the expert way he managed the animal, I thought
he WI\8 some military officer of the Sikkhim Rajah. Now, I thought, am I
caught! He willl\8k me- for my pass and what business I have on the inde-
pendent territory of Sikkhim, and, perhaps, have me arrested and_ent back,
if not worse. But, 1\8 he approached me, he reined the steed. I looked at
and recognised him instantly. . . I WI\8 in the awful presence of him, of
the same Mahatma, my own revered 011"' whom I had soon before in his
astral body, on the balcony of the Theosophicalheadquarters I ItWI\8 he, the
, Himalayan BROTHBR' of the ever memorable night of December last, who
had so kindly dropped a letter in answer to one I had given in a sealed
envelope to Madame Blavatsky-whom I had never for one mc>ment during
the interval lost sight of-but an hour or 80 before! The very same instant
saw me prostrated on the ground at his feet. I arose at his command and,
leisurely looking into his face, I forgot myself entirely in the con-
templation of the image I knew 80 well, having seen his llOrtrait (the one in
Colonel Olcott's possession) a number of times. I knew not what to say; joy
and reverence tied my tongue. The majesty (If his countenance, which
seemed to me to be the impe"llQllation of power and thought, held me rapt in
awe. I was at last face to face with 'the Mahatma of the Himavo.t' and he
was no myth, no •creation of the imagination of a medium,' as 80me sceptics
suggested. It was no night dream; it is between nine and ten o'clock of the
forenoon. There is the sun shining and silently witnessing the scene from
above. I see HIlII before me in flesh and blood; and he speaks to me is
accents of kindness and gentleness. What more do I want? My excess of
bappineu made me dumb. Nor was it until a few moments later that I was
drawn to utter a few words, encouraged by his gentle tone and speech. His
complexion is not as fair as that of Mahatma Koot Hool'ni; but never have I
lIeen a countenance so handsome, a stature 80 tall and 80 majestic. As in his
portrait, he wears a IIhort black beard, and long black hair hanging down to
his breast; only his dress was dift'erent. Instead of a white, loose robe he wore
a yellow mantle lined with fur, and on his head, instead of a "agN, Ii yellow
Tibetan felt cap, as I have seen 80me Bhootanese wear in this country. When
the first moments of rapture and surprise were over, and I calmly compre-
hended the situation, I had a long talk with him. He told me to go no
further, for I would come to grief. He said I should wait patiently if I
wahted to become an accepted Ollela: that many were those who oft'ered
themselves as candidates, but tlmt only 0. very few were found worthy ; none
were rejected-but all of them tried, and most found to fail signally,
e8pecially~d--. Borne, instead of being accepted and pledged this
year, were now thrown oft' for 0. year. . . • . . • The Mahatma,
I found, speaks very little English~r at least it 80 seemed to me-antI
.poke to me in my mother tong_Tamil. He told me that if the 0k0ll6n per-
mitted Madame Blavatsky to go to Pari-jong next year, then I could come
with her. . . . The Beng.uee Theosophists who followed the' Upuika'
(Madame Blavatsky) would see that she was right in trying to diaauade thelll
from following her now. I asked the blessed Mahatma whether I could tell
what I saw and heard to others. He replied in the affirmative, and that,
moreover, I would do well to write to you and describe all. • • •
Digitized by Google
011 Phenomena connected wit/, TlIeosop"lI. 36]
., I must impret18 upon your mind tho whole situation and ask you to keep
well in view that what I Stnll was not the Dlere 'appearance' only, the astral
body of the Mahatma, as we saw him at Bombay, but the U",ng man, il& hil,
OWA physwal bod". He was pleased to say when [ offered my farewell flamG8-
karams (prostration) that he approached the British Territory to see the
Upasika. • • • Before he left me, two more men came on horseback, his
attendants, I suppose, probably Chelal/, for they were dressed like lama-
gyUmgIf, and both, like himself, with long hair streaming down their backs.
They followed the Mahatma, as he left, at a gentle trot. For over an hour I
stood gazing at the place that he had just quitted, and then 1 slowly retraced
my steps. Now it was that I found for the first time that my long boots 118<1
pinched me in my leg in several pIaces, that I had eaten nothing since the
day before, and that 1 was too weak to walk further. My whole body was
aching in every limb. At a little distance I saw petty traders with country
ponies, taking burden. I hired one of these animals. In the afternoon I
eame to the Rungit River and crossed it. A bath in its cool waters renovate<l
me. I purchased some fruits in the only bazaar there and ate them heartily.
I took another horse immediately and reached Darjeeling late in tlle evening.
I could neitller eat, norsit, nor stand. Every part of my body waa aching.
My absence had seemingly alarmed Madame Blavatsky. She scolded me for
my rash and mad attempt to try to go to Tibet after this fashion. When 1
entered the house I found witll Madame Blal"atsky, Babu Parbati Chum Roy,
Deputy Collectorof Settlements and Superintendent of Dcarah Survey, and
his Assistant, Babu Kanty Bhushan Sen, both members of our Society. At
their prayer and Madame Blavatsky's command, I recounte<l all that bad
happened to me, reserving, of course, my private conversation \vith the
Mahatma. . . • They were all, to say the least, astounded! • • After
all, she will not go this year to Tibet; for which I am sure she does not care,
since she saw om Masters, tllus effecting her only object. But we,
unfortunate people ! We lose our only chance of going and offering our
worship to the' Himalayan Brothers' wbo-I know-will not soon cross O\'el'
to British territory, if ever again.
.. 1write to YOIl tllis letter, my dearest Brotller, in order to SIIOW bow
right we were in protesting against 'H.X.'s' letter in The TlIe08()pllist. TIle
ways of the Mabatmas may appear, to our limited vision, strange and unjust,
even cruel-as in the case of our Brothers bere, the Bengalee Babus, some of
'fhom are now laid up witll cold and fever and perhaps murmuring against
the Brothers, forgetting tllat they never asked or personally permitte<l themto
come, but that they had tllemselves acted very rashly. • . .
" And now tha~ 1 have seen the Mahatlna in tlle flesh, and heard his.lh·inf.(
voice, let no line dare to say to me that tIle Brotllers do flot exist. Come nllw
whatever will, death has no fear for Ine, nor the vengeance of enemies;
fllr what I know, I KNow!
"You will please sllow tIlis to Colonel Olcott, who first opened my
eyes to the Q'ICln!l Marga, and who will be I18PPY to hear of tbe success
(more than 1 deserve) that has attended nle. I shall give him details in
person.
.. S. R.UU.sWAMIKR, F.T.I:;.
co Darjeeling, Octobel' 7tIl, 1882."
2 A
Digitized by Google
362 Appel/dice8 to Mr. Hodg8tm', Repo,.t
In reference to tho above incident on p. 76 of the samo number of The
TlleollOphi.t, Mr. Ram88wamier says that he recognised the Mahatma "on
account of his great resemblance to a portmit in Colonel Olcott'a pouellion,
which I have repeatedly aeen."
Now in Mr. Ramaawamier'a first experience, that of the figure on the
balcony, "the whole force of the evidence," u we remarked in our First
RePOlt, "depends on what value can be attached to a recognition by moon-
light of a person on a balcony above you. Apart from this recognition,
personation through the agency of the Coulomba would appear to be
peculiarly easy in this cue." Mr. Ramaawamier'a accountof it, in reply to
my queations, is u followa :....,.
" I had been a member of the Socioty about two montha, when I went to
the headquarters at Bombay. After being there 2 or 3 daya, Madame came
In to me line monung and said I wu thinking of IOmething apecial, and
that she had Muter'a orders to tell me to put it in writing and give it to her.
I wrote a letter during the day. Madame uked me to accompany her for a
drive-llOlnewhere between 6 and 7 p.m. As we went downatairs to get
into the carriage, I gave her the letter. She put it into her pocket, and we
immediately got into the carriage. We got out at the telegraph-oftico, in
order that a telegram might be sent to congratulate lOme friends who were
being married. Either the Colonel or Damodar went alone to the te1egraph-
office, but not out of my aight.
" Madame then said ahe felt the preaence of the Maaters at headquarters,
and wanted to go back directly. We usually walked up the road towards
the house, but on tllia occaaion Madame would not allow us to leave tile
carriage. As the carriage neared the portico, I 88W tile figure of a man
leaning on the railing of the balcony Witll a letter between finger and
thumb. We all remained motionl888 for a ahort time, the figure on the
balcony alao. The letter was then thrown down by the figure. It fell
near the carriage, on tlle ground. Colonel Olcott got out and took it up,
and we all then ran up to the balcony. But no one waa thore. The night.
was bright moonlight. The figure wu tall, about 6ft., well-built, and the
fnce very handsome. Tho eyea were very calm and motionlCII, giving an
aspect of aerenity. The hair wu dark and long, the board was ahort. He
had a fehta on his head, and did not apeak. I had never seen tho
figure before. Afterwards I recogniaed the reaemblance between thia figure
and the portrait in poueuion of the Colonel, which I had not previously
aeen.
"The letter waa addre880d to me, and containlld words to the effect that.
every man mlllt havo his own deaerts, and that if I deserved well of tho
Mahatmaa they would &88ist me; alao that my desire to become a pupil had
not been long ill existence, and that I should wait to aoe whether it wa'S a
mere paaaing thought or not. (In my letter I had exprelled a desire,
among other things, to beoome a pupil.) This was the whole substance of
the letter, in my own word.. Time-betweon 7 and 8 p.m."
During my examillation of Madanlo Blavataky, concerning some of the
letters in Madante Coulomb'. pamphlet, Colonel Olcott gave an RCCOunt of
the letter which Mr. Ramuwamier had given to Madame Blavataky.
Digitized by Google
0" Phellomella connected rei/II. T!leo80}JhU. 363
Acconling to his account, )OIr. RamasW&lUicr gave the letter to Madame
Blavatsky in her own rooms, shortly before dinner. The letter was
pln.ced by her on the table, and in a few minutes, on looking for it, it could
not be found. Madame Blavatsky confirmed this account; Mr. Damodar
also Bl8ented to it. Madame Blavatsky was alone with Mr. Ramaswamier at
the time, but Colonel Olcott and Mr. Damodar professed to have heanl the
dotails shortlyafter.
I asked Madame Coulomb if she kllew anything of this letter. She said
that Madame Blavatsky retired to the bath-room, where she (Madame
Coulomb) was; that Madame Blavatsky was in a great hurry, saying
" Quick! Quick! " and wrote the reply in a few seconds, which she gave to
Madame Coulomb, to be dropped by M. Coulomb disguised as a Mahatma.
There was ample time for M. Coulomb to have doffed. his disguise,
and to be found reading " a short distance from the balcony,"
and I may remark that an expression used by Mr. Ramaswamier
seema to me especially applicable to the eyes of a dummy head, like that
exhibited to me by M. Coulomb. "The eyes were very calm and motion-
less, giving an aspect of serenity." The" Mahatma" communication is
described as .. written in Thibetan characters," and Mr. Hume has informed
me that he ascertained that Madame Blavatsky had some knowledge of
Thihetan, though how far her knowledge extends he was unable to say, not
being himself a Thibetan scholar.
I have had many conversations with Mr. Ramaswamier, and I questioned
him closely concenling the .. Mahatma" he saw on the bonlers of Thibet.
A loose robe covered most of the Mahatma's body. The feet and legs were
not bare. The foet were enveloped in a sort of leather used in that district.
The Mahatma talked to him for about half-an-hour, spoke to him of Chelas
who had failed, of the duties of a Chela,-told him he should work for the
Theosophical Society, and gaye him certain communications by which per-
IOns in high standing in thll Society could be Bl8ured he had seen the Master
hin1self. Among these persons was Colonel Olcott, and I understood that the
knowledge communicated implied something equivalent to a passwonl.
Mr. Ramaswamior could not describe the Chelas, who passed quickly on
horseback.
I see no improbability in supposing that the Mahatma was personated by
one of Madame Blavatsky's confederates, and it is not impossible that Mr.
Babajee and Mr. Casava PiUai may have been concerned in the scheme, as
Madame Coulomb implies in her pamphlet. They are both familiar with
districts where Tamil is commonly spoken. Mr. Babajee had not been
accused of actually playing the Mahatma on that occasion, but he was
nevertheless particularly anxious to prove to me how absunl it was that he,
the little Mr. Babajee, could be mistaken for a majestic Mahatma. Mt.
Casava Pillai, who had been on a contemporaneous visit to the North, I
have not had an opportunity of cross-examining; but I obtained incidentally
some curious'infonnation from Mr. Muruganunthum Pillai, who was present
when Madanle Blavatsky was conversing witll his brollier-in-law, Mr.
Casava., after the latter's return from tho North and when he was on a visit
to Madras. Madame Blavatsky had "chaffed" Mr. Casava Pillai 011 the
1081 of his beard. t:pon inquiry I learnt that Mr. Casava Pillai habitually
2 A !!
Digitized by Google
.Appendices to Mr. HOdg8M'8 Report
wore no beard; he seeml, therefore, to have temporarily acquired a beard
in the coune of hia joumey north! Mr. Damodar, who wall prelent when I
wu queetioning Mr. Murugonunthum Pillai, wu evidently diaconcertecl
when thia piece of luggeetive convereation wu innocently reproduced by the
witn811. It appeared to UI in our Fil'llt Report that" hallucination" would
be an euier hypotheeia to apply to Mr. Ramuwamier'l experience
than "peJ'lOnation"; but my acquaintance with Mr. Ramaewamier, taken
with the evidence for the reverence diaplayed by the nativee towarde the
"Mahatmu," which would interfere with any careful acrutiny, baa
convinced me that he might eaeily have been deceived by a confederate of
. Madame Blavataky's in disguiae.
APPENDIX IX.
EVIDENOE OF MR. MARTANDIU.O n. NAGNATH, d"t'.
From" Hinta on Esoteric TheOl<lphy," No.1, p. 103.
"On another night a Brother came in hia own physical body, walking
through the lower garden (attached to Colonel Olcott's bungalow) and stood
quiet. Madame Blavataky then went down tlle wooden staircase leading
into the garden. He shook hands with her and gave her a packet. After
a short time the Brother diaappeand on the 'pot, and Madame coming up the
stail'll opened the packet and found in it a letter from Allahabad. W0 laW
the envelope was quite blank, i.e., unaddrel8ed, but it bore a triangular
stamp of Allahabad Post Office of December the 3rd, 1881. and also a circular
poltalstamp of the Bombay POlt Office of fJIt IIlIM date, "iz., 3rd DeCember.
The two citiee are 860 milee apart.
" I have seen lettel'll, or rather envelopee containing lettel'll, coming or
falling from the air in different places, without anybody's contact, in pre-
sence of both TheolOphiata and Itrangel'll. Their contenta related to subjecta
that had been the topics of our convereation at the moment.
.. Now I aver in good faith I laW the Brothel'll of the til'llt section and
phenomena, in luch placee and timel, and under luch circumltancee, that
there could be no possibility of anybody playing a trick.
"MARTANDBAO BABA.JI NAONATH.
"BQmbay, 14th February, 1882.'"
In our FiJ'It Report we laid, with regard to thia statement, that we
thought it must" be regarded &I of Imall value, becau8e poltmarks can be
imitated, and it seema improbable that an unaddreeeed letter would have
been ltamped at the polt-office and not subsequently miased. It ia, of
coune, curious that a Brother should seem to 'dilappe:lr on the lpot,' but
Mr. Martandrao doel not seem to have been very near. It seema CUriOUI in
another way, that the 'brother' Ihould think it worth while to have the
letter lramped at the post-office, when he wu going to deliver it hinllelf."
Ita value baa certainly not been increased by Mr. Martandrao's later account
in reply to my inquiriee. He said :-
.. One day we were sitting in the lmall verandah at Bonlhay. There were
present Madame, Bhavani Shankar. MullwamlBll Natllwarman, and myself.
Digitized by Google
On Plu!nomelltJ connected fCit/, TlIeo8opll!l. 365
We were talking on "arious subject-. with Madame. Madame's attention on
a sudden WM abatmeted. She stood up and began to stare far towarda the
sea. After looking for a while, she sat down and went on talking. TWa
happened twice or thrice. There WM no moonlight; a clear starlight night.
Talking WM going on. On a sudden, at about 10 or 11 at night;, a white
clad figure was coming through the garden from the brow of the bill [down
which, Colonel Olcott interposed, there was no path leading to the
common road at the foot].
" The figure wore a fehta, seemed rather tall, and bad a beard. I could
see the man clearly, and could distinguish biB features, but did not know
him. He came fast walking towarda us. When he came within 6 or '1
yarde of us, Madame went down the wooden staircaae, and met the figure
and appeared to shake banda with him. I saw a packet delivered by the
figure to Madame. After BOmc minutes' talk with the figure Madame
remounted the staircase with the packet in her band, and told us to go into
the bungalow and shut the door. We went inside, clOBed the door, and sat
on a couch close to the right of the door. We heard Madame talking oublide,
but we did not know the language. It was not French or Engliah. After
lOme minutes Madame came in and showed us the packet. The packet was
intact;, and bad three postal marks, Calcutta, Allahabad, and Bombay.
[Interrupted by Colonel Olcott, who persuaded him there were only two
postmarks.] One stamp was triangular,-Allahabad. These postmarks were
of the same date. The letter was without anyaddreu. H WM opened in our
presence. Madame read the letter. I believe it was from Mr. Sinnett. It
came from Allahabad."
Colonel Olcott, who WM pre8ent at this interview with Mr. Martandrao,
said there was no path leading from the brow of the hill to the common road
at the foot. I found, however,that therewere two such paths, which appeared
to be very old, and which I definitely ascertained were in existence when
Crow's Neat Bungalow formed the headquarters of the Society. Moreover,
I found upon trial that the bill could be ascended where no path had
been made.
In Mr. Martandrao's oral account there appears to be BODle confusion
between the incident quoted above from .. Hint-. on Esoterio Theosophy,"
and a different incident, of which the account previously given by Mr.
Martandrao in the same pamphlet, p. 1~, is as follows :-
"In the month of April, 1881, on one dark night, while talking in
company with other Theosophist-. with Madame Blavataky about 10 p.m. in
the open verandah of the upper bungalow, a man, 6 feet in height;, clad in
a white robe, with a white roolHal or phetta on the head, made biB appuarance
on a sudden, walking towards us througb the garden adjacent to tbe bungalow
from a point-a precipice-where there is no path for anyone to tread,
Madame tben roae up and told us to go inside the bungalow. So we went
in, but we heard Madame and he talking for a minute with each other in an
Eastern language unknown to us. Immediately after, we again went oue
into the verandah, as we were called, but the Brother bad disappeared."
The same abaurd statement that there was no path occurs in this account
also. Mr. Martandrao (Clerk in Examiner's Office of Public Acco\mt-.~
Digitized by Google
366 Appmaice6 to Hr. Hoc/U60,,'6 Report
Bombay,) is, I believe, a very honest witness, though not gifted with a great
amount of shrewdness, and not able to describe bis experiences with any
fluency in English. It was quite impouible for him to have written the
account of his experiences, as it stands above his name in .. Hinte on Esoteric
Theosophy." Colonel Olcott in my preaence has corrected·-as to absurd or
faulty expressions-the written accounte of witnesses; and he may have
en'Oneously .. corrected" Mr. Martandrao's account in the above particular
concerning the path, just as he made the addendum when Mr. HartandJ.'lV)
was giving the oral account to myself. The reader will see that either
account is perfectly valueless for proving that the figure was other than an
ordina.ry man,-unless the brow of the hill,acceuibJe without difficulty on the
farther side beyond the observation of the witn_, were first traneformed
ineo the sumlwt of R pathleu precipice. I may here say that the grounds
which form the environment of Crow's Neat Bungalow, with their many
paths and easy hiding-p1acea, formed all admirable stage for the display
of "astral figures," which appear to have been seen much more frequently at
Crow's Neat Bungalow than elsewhere. The next account is interesting in
the ".ay of suggesting exactly how the .. astral figures" were pre-arra.nged
in that partioular cue for the purpose of enabling the witneB8eB to testify to
the existence of the " Brothen."
ML MARTANDRAo'~ Aocount published in "Hinte on Esoterio Theosophy,"
p. 105. .
" Similarly, in a strong moonlight on another night, I, in company with
three Brother Theosophists, was convening with Madame Blavatsky.
Madame Coulomb was also present. About 8 or 10 yards distant from
the open verandah in which we were sitting, we saw a Brother known to us
as Koot Hoomi Lal Sing. He was wearing a white loose goWII or robe, with
long wavy hair and a beard ; and was gradually forming, lUI it were, in front
of a shrub or a number of shrubs some 20 or 30 yards away from us.
until he stood to a full height. Madame Coulomb was asked in our presence
by Madame Blavateky: 'Is this good Brother a devil 1• as she used to think
and say 80 when seeing the Brothen, and was afraid. She then answered:
'No; tltis one is a man.' He then showed his full figure for about 2
or 3 minutes, then gradually disappe3red, melting away into the shrub.
On the same night again. at about 11 p.m., we, about '1 or 8 in
number, were hearing a letter read to us, addreued to the London Spiritual..
about our having seen Brotben, which one of our number had drafted, and
which wa were ready to sign. At this instant Mr. and Madame Coulomb
called out and said: 'Here is again our Brotlter.' This Brother (Koot
Hoomi Lal Sing again) was sometimes standing and walking in the garden
here and there, at other times floating in the air. He soon paased into and
was heard in Madame Blavateky's room talking with her. On this account,
after we had signed the letter to the London Spiritual"t, we added a poetecript
that we had just seen him again while signing the letter. Koot Hoomi was
in his Mayawi t'Upa on that evening."
Mr. Marta,&t.i."aO" accot,nt in reply to my ilt'l"irki :-"At about '1 or 8
p.m., in Bombay headqusrten-it was eitlter in 1881 or 1882-we were
sitting in the verandah upstain, Bhavani Shankar, Padsbah (elder brother
of Padshah in England), Madame, Mulwarman NathwaI'mnn, and Damooar.
Digitized by Google
On Phenomena connected tC;t'~ ne080))"!!. 367
We were talking together when Madame suddenly became abstracted. She
got up and went to the railing, and stood looking towards the sea. We
thoughtsomething would happen. Madame told us to go on talking; then she
sat down. Again we were talking. Again she stood up ; and at once we also
stood up, and saw a figure in the garden among the shrubs, about 30 yards off,
on the brow of the hill. It was moonlight, and the moonlight shone upon the
figure. I saw first half a figure, and then a full figure approaching a few
steps, then standing. Then the figure seemed gradually to melt away.
While this figure was standing, Madame sent for Madame Coulomb from
downstains, as she was always saying the place was haunted by devils.
Madame Coulomb came, and was told to look at the figure, and Madame
Blavataky &eked in a challenging tone, •Is that the devil, 01' a man l'
She said quiatIy, 'This is a man, not a dovil.' The figure was very tall,
51 or 6 feet. The figure had on a lOOle white gown, and wore a beard. I
do not now recollect whether tile figure had a turban, or not. I did not
recognise the person as one whom I had known before. The figure remained
7 or 8 minutes.
"We went on again talking, alld at 9 or 9.30 we went into another
verandall, and Damodar and Padahah drafted a reply to be sent to the news-
paper Light. After about 10 or 12 lines of the draft were written, 3 or 4:
persons signed. The reat were to sign, and as we were called to sign we
were told to read the draft. While reading, our attention was drawn by
M. Coulomb, who had conle up, to a figure standing iD the garden. At that
time the moon had gone. We went from the table to the Vonetian
windows facing towards tile sea, and I saw a figure in the garden, while
M. Coulomb and others were standing near me. The figure in the garden
was tall, about 6 feet, standing erect and majestically, with a gown on,
wearing a. beard, but was not so robust as the previous figure, a.nd with a
fehta on his head. Towards that figure I folded my hands in reverence,
thinking it to be a Mahatma. The figure stood for 4: or 5 minutes, a.t
about 12 yards distance, a.nd I then began to talk with those near me, and
suddenly heard Madame's servant, Babula, shouting from the bungalow.
Madame went in haste to the porch, and thence to her own room. I tIleIi
heard Mada.me talking with somebody. When I heard Babula IIhout, 1
looked up again for the figure, and it was no longer there. Padahah and
Damodar suggested that as we saw the figure while we were about to sign
the protest we should add a postscript to that effect. We accordingly
did BO."
With these accountB may be comp&l'ed the following :-
Account by MR, BHAVANI RAo (SHAlIo"JtAR) printed in a compilation by Dr.
Hartmann in 1885.
" In a bright moonlight, on tJle night of the 13th July, 1881, we were
engaged in a talk with Madame Blavataky as usual in the same verandall.
M. Coulomb and Madame Ooulomb were present on the spot, as also
all the persona of the house, and Madame BlavatBky's servant. While we
were conversing with Madame BlavatBky, the Mahatma, known as Mr.
Sinnett's correspondent and the Author of tIle letters published in •TIle
Occult World,' made Ilis appearance in his Mayari TlIpa or 'Double,'
Digitized by Google
368 .Ap?llcliccs to Mr. 9OOg80/l'8 Rl'}Jort
for a few minutes. He was clad in the white dre88 of a 'Punjabee' and
wore a white turban. All of those who were present at that time saw his
handsome features clearly and distinctly, as it was a bright moonlight night.
On the same night, a letter was drafted to the London Spiritttalilit about
our having seen the Mahatmas. As we were reading the letter in question,
the same Mahatma showed himself again. TIle second time when he made
his appearance, he was very near us, say at the distance of a yard or two.
At that time, M. and Madame Ooulomb said, 'Here is our Brother,'
meaning the Mahatma. He then came into Madanle Blavatsky's room and
was heard t!Uking with her and then disappeared. M. Ooulomb and
Madame Coulomb signed the letter drafted to the London Spiri.fAtalilt
testifying to the fact of their having seen the 'Mahatma.' Since Madame
Coulomb now says that the Mahatmas are but 'cl'8fty arrangements of
mualin and bladden,' and her husband represented the Mahatmas, how are
we to reconcile this statemont witIl the fact that in the London 8pirituali"t
of tlle 19th August, 1881, appeared a letter signed by five witn088es, in-
cluding myself, testifying to the fact of their havingseen a Mahatma, while
they were writing that let~r; and that this document is signed by botIl the
Coulombs 1 There is, t.herefore, no doubt that they were with the company
who signed the paper. Who was it then that appeared on that occasion as
a Mahatma 1 Surely neitIler M. and Madame Coulomb witll their
'muslin and bladden,' nor Madame Blavatsky's servant, who was also
present, but the 'double' of a person living on the otIler side of the
Himalayas. The figure in coming up to Madame Blavatsky's room was seen
by us 'to float through the air,' and we also distinctly heard it talking to
her, while all of us, inclu{liug her servant and tile Coulomb", were at the
time, together, in e&eh other's presence."
Now witIl regard to the statement of Mr. Bhavani, who apparently cama
his living as an official of the Theosophical Society, being Inspector of tlll~
N. W. Theosophical branches, I may remark that the figure in question,
although neither M. nor Madame Coulomb, nor Madanle Blavatsky'a
8Orvant, may still have been a confederate in disguise. It does, illdee-l,
appear somewhat odd that .. all tho persons of tIle house, and Madame
Blavatsky's servant" should be .. present on tIle spot" with tIlose Theoso-
phists who weN .. engaged in a talk witIl Madame Blavatsky," and it is
rather unfortunate that tltis fact or fancy was 110t exhibited more clearly
either in the document forwarded to 2'h~ Spiritllalilt or in the account given
soon afterwards (February, 1882) by Mr. Martandrao. A reference to The
Spilittlaliat of August 19t11, 1881, will show that tlle Coulombs sigued Oldy
'he poatacript, which runs as follows: "As we were reading the foregoing
over, a Brotller was witIl us. M. and Madame Coulomb, tlle latter
Assistant Corresponding Secretary of the Central Theosophical Society, have
seou him alld will testify to the same." Then comes tIle statement:
., The above postscript is correct," which is signed by the Coulombs.
Obviously, this postscript proves only that the Coulombs were witIl the
other witn088es when the alleged apparition was seen the ~cond time. But
this has never been denied by the Coulombs. M. Couloinb a88erts that he
appeared fint disguised as a Mahatma, that then a letter was drafted to
be sent to The ~iritualist, and that afterwards Babula appeared disguised
Digitized by Google
/
011 PI,CIUJIIUma COllllccted with TI.eo80pk!l. 369
as a Mahatma, fOl' the PUl"}>ose of enabling botll tIle Coulombs to be pre-
sent witIt the other witneasea, and to add tIteir testimony. These aasertions
are entirely in harmony, not only with tIte document printed in The Spiri-
tualist, but also with tIte detailed accounts of tIte two alleged .. astral ..
appearances given by Mr. Martancirao, in whose earlier account it is
plainly enough implied that M. Coulomb was not present with tile otIter
witnesses when the first figure was seen, and that Babula might have been
absent from the company the whole evenillg. His later account confirms
his earlier one in these particulars, and appears to me to be further cor-
roborative of M. Coulomb's aasertions. I think it, tIterefore, highly probable
that tIte appearances were produced in the way .described by M. Coulomb,
and I cannot myself resist the impreaaion that the important and palpable
discrepancies between the accounts given by Mr. Bhavani and Mr. Mar-
tandrao are due to deliberate falsification on the part of Mr. Bhavani.
APPENDIX X.
ALLEGED ASTRAL APPARITION WITNESSED BY MR. AND MRS.
ROSS SCOTT. REMARKABLE PORTRAITS•
.. Hints on Esoteric Theosophy," No.1, pp. 75, 76.
"The undersigned severally certify that, in each otIter's presence, tI10Y
recently saw at tIte headquarters of the Theosophical Society" (at Bombay)
.. a BrotIter of the Firat Section, known to tItem under a name which they
are not at liberty to communicate to the public. The circumstances were of
a nature to exclude all idea of trickery or collusion, and were as follows:-
"We were sitting together in the moonlight about 9 o'clock upon the
balcony which projects from the front of tIte bungalow. Mr. Scott was
sitting facing the house, so as to look through the intervening verandah and
the library, and into the room at the furtlter side. Tllia latter apartment
was brilliantly lighted.
"The library was in partial darkneaa, thus rendering objects in the
farther room more distinct. Mr. Scott suddenly saw tIte figure of a man
step into the space, opposite the door of the library; he was clad in tIte
white dreaa of a Rajput, and wore a white turban. Mr. Scott at once recog-
nised him from his resemblance to a portrait in Colonel Olcott's poaaeaaion.
Our attention was tIten dmwn to him, and we all saw him most distinctly.
He walked towards a table, and afterwards turning his face towards u,
walked back out of our sight. We hurried forward to get a closer view, in
the hope that he nlight also speak ; but when we reached the room he was
gone. We cannot say by what means he departed, but that he did not pass
out by tile door which leads into the compound we can positively affirm ; for
that door was full in our view, and he did not go out by it. At tIte side of
the room towards which he walked there was no exit, the only door and the
two windows in that direction having been boarded and closed up. Upon
the table, at the spot where he had been standing, lay a letter addressed to
one of our number. The handwriting was identical with tllat of sundry
notes and letters previously received from hun in divers ways-8uch as
Digitized by Google
370 Appf!Jldiccs to MI'. Hodgson's Rrpol't
dropping down from the ceiling, &c. ; the signature was the same as that of
the other letters received, antI as that upon the portrait above described.
His long hair was black, and hung down upon his breast; his features and
complexion were those of a Rajput.
.. RoIlS SCOTr, B.C.S•
•, MINNIE J. B. SCOTr.
" H. S. OLCOTr•
.. H. P. BUVATSKY.
"M. MOOlUD ALI BEG.
" DAMODAlt K. !olAVALANKAR.
"BHAVAKI SHANKAR GANKSH MULLAPOORKAR."
In our First Report we said: .. Personation does not seem impossible
in this case, considering the distance, and that there may have been modes
of ingress to the room known only to the Coulombs. Still lesa does it seem
imp088ible that it can have been the real man in the flesh." That it was
a case of personation I have now no doubt.
c
)(
v
\
B
The accompanying rough skereh will
explain the position.
M. Coulomb asserts that he played the
:Mahatma on this occasion. He explained
tl me that the door leading from the
verandah (V) into the library (L) was an
ordinary double one, and so, likewise, was
the door leading from the library into
Colonel Olcott's office (0), where the figure
appeared; but the door leading from the
office into the compound (C) was a quad.
ruple one. The line' of sight from the
position occupied by the party on the
balcony (B) did not permit the tohole of
the quadruple.door exit to be seen, and by
the time the party had reached such a
position as to see the whole space of ezit,
M. Coulomb bad left the room by the
further side part of the quadruple-door.
One side of the door leading from the
library into the office, M. Coulomb deelares
be had pushed partly to, in order to make
certain that bis departure should not he
observed.
I perfonned this manreuvre myself ill
Bombay, and it succeeded admirably.
Witb the door pushed partly to, as repre·
sented in tbe diagram, it was not posaible
for the party, who were originally on the balcony, to have seen the llOint of
M. Coulomb's alleged exit before reaching the spot marked P. I requested
a gentlelnan to walk in the direction indicated by the arro~ed line. and
found that the illusion was naturally produced that he had contmued to walk
Oil Pl,enomena cOlillected feifl. TlIeoaop"!I. 371
towards X, and could not have passed into the compound. Walking thUI
into the compound myself, I found it especially convenient to keep my face
turned towards the spectators, as this enabled me to tell exactly when I
was beyond their line of sight, and 80 make my exit unseen. And this just
answers to the peculiar description of the disappearance of the figure given
in the aboloe account. "He walked towards a table, and afterwards turning
his face towards us, walked back out of our sight." M. Coulomb's asser-
tions, then, were so entirely corroborated by my inspection of the place, as
to make it highly probable that he personsted the Mahatma in the manner
he alleges.
Mr. Sinnett, in giving some additional infonnation to Mr. Hume coli-
coming the above incident shortly after its occurrence, writes truly that
"the force of the incident tums on the arrangement of the rooms;" and
proceeds to give a sketch of the reoms. This sketch affords another illustra-
tion of the remark which I have made in dealing with "The Occult World"
phenomena-that Mr. Sinnett has not exerciseil by any means sufficient care
in his inveatiption. The most important point in the arrangement of the
rooms is entirely overlooked by him, the exit into the compound being
represented as no wider than the doorway from the library into the office.
In Mr. Sinnett's sketch, the three doorways appear to be all of the same
. ,
8lZe. .
I may here draw attention to a certificate, a copy of which was sent by
Colonel Olcott to Mr. Myers in October of last year:
[Copy.]
"Colonel Olcott baving to-day shown us a portrait in oils, we at once
recognised it as a very good likeness of a form which, in January, 1882, we
saw at the headquarters of the Theosophical Society in Bombay, and !laid to
be that of one of the Mahatmas known as the teacher of Madame Bl~vatsky
and Colonel Olcott. .
" (Sgd.) Ross SCOTT
"(Bengal Civil Service).
"(Sgd.) MARIA J. B. SCOTT.
" Bonn, Gennany, 21th September, 1884."
This refers to a portrait painted by Mr. Schmiechen from a photograph
alleged to represent Mahatma M. The features of Malmtma M. originated,
I believe, with an artist in America. It appears that this gentleman was ra-
quested to draw a typical Hindu head. He did so, and Madame Blavatsky
declared thatit was the portrait of Mahatma ll. It was Gilt.· thi, occutn,1.U
that the figure whOle features resembled thOle of the "fancy portrait,"
appllared to Colonel Olcott in New York. Photographs were taken from
this "fancy portrait," and it was either from one of these
photographa, or from the original portrait tImt Mr. Schmiechen's
painting was made. I have compared the photograph sid" by lide with Mr.
Schmiechen's painting, and must certaiuly l3y that there is a cloBe
resemblance between the two. Considering then that the dummy head with
its equipment of turban, &c., was made up to resemblo the early po,trait,
it is no~ surprising that a painting made from the same original sh(\uld seem
Digitized by Google
372 Appc-lIdice8 to Nr. Hodgson'8 Report
to Mr. and Mrs. RoBS ScoU a good likeness of the diaguiaed figure which
they saw in Bombay between two and three years previoualy-and at a
distance from them which I concluded when I was at Crow's Nest Bungalow,
was probably about 20 paces.
Mr. Schmiechen has also painted a portrait of K. H.. which appeal'll
to me to resemble his painting of Mahatma M. more nearly than
it resembles the portrait of K. H. which was formerly kept in the
Shrine. The Shrine-portrait and Mr. Schmiechen's cannot both be
striking likeneBSea of K. H. ; they would probably be taken by any ordinary
observer to represent different persons. In the Shrine-portrait, which ia
alleged, I think, to have been the work of some Chela(and if so, was pro-
bably the work of Madame Blavatsky), the nOle is much more aquiline, and
the eyes more .almond-shaped than in Mr. Schmiechen's painting. The
expreBSion of the eyes, moreover, is very different from t!lat in Mr.
Schmiechen's rendering, and the complexion is very much paler. Alao the
hair is decidedly curly in the Shrine portrait, but is not curly in Mr.
Schmiechen's. I drew Colonel Olcott's attention to the lack of resemblance
displayed in some of these resll8Cts, and he admitted that tliere was a
difference, which he described as being such as one would expect between
the attempt of a schoolboy and that of a finished artist. As for the hair, he
said that "Hair gets much straighter when it is wet" :
In connection with these portraits, 1 may refer to another, alleged to
have been prOOuced by Madame Blavatsky in leBS than a minute, in America.
It appeared to us, at the time of our Firat Report, that there was no proof
that the portrait, said to represent a Hindu Fakir, might not have been
made previously; but the case seemed to be of lome interest in consequence
of the artistic merits of the picture attested to by Mr. O'Donovan and Mr.
I.e Clear (vide" Hints on Esoteric Theosophy," No.1, pp. 85, 86). Mr.·
O'Donovan, in tho statement wlUch he made concerning the portrait, said
that "the black tints seem to be all integral part of the paper upon which
it is done." Mr. I.e Clear said: "I first tllOUght it chalk, then pencil, then
Indian ink; but a minute inspection leaves me quite unable to decide.
Certainly it is neither of the above" ; and also: ., The tint seems not to be
laid 011 the surface of the common writing-paper upon which the portrait is
made, but to be combined, as it were, with the fibres themselves." I think
it is implied hy the statement of Mr. O'Donovan that the lighter tints
appeared to have beell laid 011, and Ilot to fomi an integral part of the pal>er,
and this apl>eared also to myself. Madame Coulomb alleged that Madame
Blavatsky had told her that she had laid on the upper tints herself upon one
of two l>hotographs of a Hindu Fakir which she poBSeBSed, and Madanle
Coulomb further alleged that the other photograph was still in one of
Madame Blavatsky's albums, and that I would, without doubt, be able to
see the portrait in the album, and reco2llise the likeneBS to the one s"pposed
to have been produced by occult methods. I fllund a portrait which I thought
might be the counterpart; it was different from an ordinary photograph, the
surface not presenting a polisho<1 appearance, and it seemed to me to
resemble rather a mezzotint engraving. I had no opportunity of comparing
it aide by side with the ., phenomenal" portrait, which I had not seen for
some time previously ; and all I can say is that I noted a cOllsiderable
Digitized by Google
Oil Phl'11011U'lia CO/IJUJctcdlrith Theo8oph!l. 373
t:esemblance about tlle eyes and forehead wllicll led me to think it quite
possible that the .. phenomenal" portrait may have been the result of
Madame Blavateky's artistic skill exercised upon a portrait like the one I
found in her albl1\u.
APPENDIX XI.-(Vide p. 248.)
1
On tlle 4th Marcll, l~Madame Blavateky and Colonel Olcott were
at this time on the ocean, having left Bombay on February 20tll for
Marseilles)-I, owing to certain domestic a1Hictions, felt exceedingly
miserable ; could not take a morsel of food ; and remained in the most
wretched condition of mind all that day. But ill the evening, between 5
and 6 p.m., I proceeded to Adyar, in the hope of finding some consolation
there; and was seated in the office-room of the headquarters, talking to
llr. Bawaji, without, however, mentioning to any body the circumstance of
my being in an unhappy condition. In the meantime, Mr. Damodar stepped
ill; and I at once expressed to him my desire to see the ,. Shrine." He very
kindly conducted me to the Occult Room upalmira forthwitll; and unlocked
the " Shrine." He and I were standing hardly five seconds looking at the
Mahatma K. H.'s portrait in the .. Shrine," when he (Mr. Damodu) told me
that he had orders to close the " Shrine ;" and did so immediately. This
course was extremely disappointing to me, wllo, as the reader will have per-
ceived from the above, ,vas sorely in need of some consolation or other at
that time. But ere I could realise the pangs of tllis disappointment, Mr.
Damodar re-opened in an instant the "Shrine" by orders. My eye imme-
diately fell upon a letter in a Thibetall envelope in the cup in the" Shrine,"
which was quite empty before I I ran and took the letter, and finding that
it was addressed to me by Mahatma K. H., I opened and read it. It con-
tained very kind words conveying consolation to my aching heart; advising
me to take courage; explaining how the laws of Karma were inevitable; and
finally referring me to Mr. Damodar for further explanation of certain
passages in the letter.
How my presence before his portrait attracted the instantaneous notice
of the Mahatma, being thousands of miles oft'; how the Mahatma divined
that I was miserable and was in need of comfort at Ilia hands ; how he pro-
jected his long and consoling letter from such great distance into the closed
cabinet, within the twinkling of an eye j and, above all, how solicitous he,
the great Mahatma, is for the well-being of mankind, and more especially
of persons devoted to him,-are pointe which I leave to the sensible reader
to consider and profit by. Enough to say that this unmistakable sign of
extraordinary kindness on the part of the great Master armed me with suffi-
cient energy to shake oft' the miserable and gloomy thoughte, and filled my
heart with unmixed comfort and excessive joy, coupled with feelings of the
sincerest gratitude to the benevolent Mahatma for this blessing.
P. SRUNEVAS Row.
2
I was at headquarters very oftell during my sojourn with my friend H.
H., the Thakore Sahib of Wadhwan at Madras, whither we had gone last
Digitized by Google
374 Appendices to MI'. HodgBon'B Report
March for the celebration of his marriage with the daughter of the Hon.
Oujpati Row. One day 1 asked Mr. D. K. MavaIankar to let me put a letter
from me to my revered Master K. H. in the Shrine. It was in a closed
envelope, and was regarding private personal matters, whic!h I need not lay
befQre the public. Mr. Damodar allowed me to put the letter in the Shrine.
The day after I visited again the Shrine in company with my wife. On
opening the Shrine I did find my letter unopened, but addreued to me in
blue pencil, while my original superscription, : .. My Revered Master," had a
pencil line rWlning through it. This was in the presence ofMr. Mavalankar,
Dr. Hartmann and others. The envelope was intact. I opened it, and on
the unused portion of my note was an answer from my Master K. H. in his,
to me, familiar handwriting. I should very much like to know how others
will explain this, when as a fact both founders were thousands of milea
away.
HARI8INOBJI RUPBINOBJI, F.T.S.
Varel, 9th September, 1884.
APPENDIX XII.
Account by MR. P. IYALOO NAIDU.
(A reply to Mr. Myers' inquiry contained in his letter of 13th ultimo.)
On the 11th February last, I received a letter from Mr DanlOdar K.
Mavalankar, dated 8th idem, Adyar. In it there was a meuage in pencil by
Mahatma Koot Hoomi, regarding a very important point.
On the same day, viz., 11th February, I received another envelope by
the same post, "From Bhola Deva Sarma," in which there was a Thibetan
envelope containing a measage in Teloogoo chamcters on a point very impor-
tant to me, with the initials of our revered Guru Deva M.C.
In the llUlt mouth (August) I was anxious about my journey to this
country from Hyderabad, and often thought of the Mahatma M. C. About
the 26th idem I examined my clothes, &c., at Hyderabad, and found the
initials of the Mahatma M. C. on a cap which I use during my meditation.
P. lYALOO NAIDU, F.T.S.,
Pensd. Dep. Collector, Amee.
19th September, 1884.
III reply IQ tny allql,iriu :-Mr. Naidu had sent a letter to Mahatma M.,
through Damodar. About 10 days after, on February 11th, he received a
letter from Damodar, who said he had" missed" the letter (i.e., that he had
placed it for the Mahatma to take, and that it had gone), that Mahatma M.
had taken it and would attend to it. On the same day Mr. Naidu received a
letter from Mount Road (nearly four miles from the Theosophical head-
quarters), .. From Bhola Deva Sanna.," 8uppo8ed Chela of Mahatma M.
The cap refelTCd to had been given to him by Colonel Olcott about 20
month8 previously. The cap had been wonl several times during this
interval by Mr. Naidu, who had been staying at Hyderabad the whole time.
The initial8 appear as though marked with a blue pencil, and Mr. Naidu
himself 8Uggested that he should ask Colonel Olcot.t if the initials were there
when he received the cap. He thought it poasible the initials might have
Digitized by Google
On P"tIlOnlCllfJ cOllllcclccl u:ith TllC08op/1!/. 375
been there without his observing them. His sight is not good, and he had
never specially examined the cap, which Ulay bo described as a smoking-cap
made of white soft fabric. The colour of the initiala is not deep, and
appears to have sufferdd the wearing away due to friction.
When we issued our Firat Report, Mr. Naidu's written statement seemed
to have some interest on account of the use of Teloogoo characters in th.
Mahatma document, but assuming that Madame Blavatsky has native con-
federates, it is obvious that no importance can be attributed to their usc.
Mr. Babajee, however, in reply to my questions, said that he did not think
anyone at headquarters knew Teloogoo, "except it be Damodar," but when
I pushed my inquiry further, he said with SOUle hesitation that he thought
that Mr. Damodal' alao was ignorant of Teloogoo. The Teloogoo may have
been written by Mr. Babajee hinllOlf. Some writing in English, alleged to
have been precipitated by "Bhola Deva Sanna," showed clear traces ofMr.
Babajee's handiwork. (See Part II. of Report.) Another instance had occurred
wllere a Bombay Theosophist had received a phenomenal communication in
the Mahrathi language; but Mahrathi is Mr. Damodar's vernacular. Sanskrit
knowledge could also be secured, but a question in Hebrew and Arabic
proved rather too hard a knot fer the Mahatma Brotherhood. Mr.
Danlodar, when conversing with Madame Blavataky, in my presence, let
slip the remark-in reference to what he would do on his projected visit.
to the North-Lhat he would ., first learn Thibetan and Urdu." Madame
Blavataky's quick glance of wanling, Mr. Damodar's diaconcertion, and the
specdf change of subject did not lessen the suggestiveness of the utterance.
-- -- --------
APPENDIX XIII.
The following accounts will serve to illustrate the quality of many of
the letter-phenomena. They were given in reply to my inquiries.
FALL OF A CALENDAR.
Account by MR. T. VIJIARAGHAVA CHARWO (Ananda).
In May, 1882, Madame Blavatakyand others came to Nellore. There
were more than half-A-dozen of us upataira. No one could remember the
date. Madlldlle Blavataky said the Masters could give her a calendar if they
liked. We were sitting in acircle or semi-circle in front of Madame. She
shook violently, and a letter struck the wall behind. It was a calendar.
Account by MR. DORASWAMY NAIDU.
When we were at Nellore, about midday, in May, 1882, we, Soubbaya
Chetty, myself, Anand&, Madame, and solDe others, were sitting in a room
together ill an upper storey. Madame wanted to know the date. Soubbaya
Chetty gave one date, and another gave a different one. Madame said,
j, Haven't you got any calendar 1" The reply was No. Some one asked
Madame to supply a calendar. Within two or three seconds something fell
with a noise on the floor. One of the brothers took the object up. It was a
small paper calendar of an English publisLer, apparently quite new.
Madame was sitting at about tbe centre of one side of the room, and tbe
calendar fell in the far comer of the room.
Digitized by Google
376 .A.jJpflldice8 to Nr. Hodg8on'8 RrjJQrt
JIR. (lOSHrS LETTER.
Account by MR. BABAJEE.
During the 8th anniversary, M. Goshi was a delegate. He came tel
me, and offered his services. He wrote a long'letter of 5 or 6 big pages. I
gave it to Damodar to give to Madame, who returned it to Damodar with
the words, "Answer him as you please." Damodar left the letter on the
table. Goshi watched it, and answers came to his questions in the letter.
Goshi was watching the letter all the time.
Account by MR. LUKHBMAN N. GOSHI (Pensioned Sub-Judge of Sind).
I wrote a long letter of several foolscap pages, and gave it, through Mr.
Brown, to Madame, who gave it to Damodar to get the Master's account.
Damodar said he left it un the table, and found the writing of Mahatma
Koot Hoomi in it. He returned it to me.
MR. NORENDRANUB SEN, editor of the Indiall jIi,.,.o,., did not appear to
me to have been much impressed by "phenomena." One experience of his
was as follows :-
At the annh'ersary of 1883, Messrs. Damodar, Muhini, Mullick, BrO\nl,
and himself were sitting together wl'en )[r. Damudar asked him if he felt
anything. The reply was No. Mr. Damudar then said that the Master
told Norendra to look in his pocket. He found nothing in his pocket, but
found a letter on the seat-from the Mahatma.
MR. NOBIN KRIBHNA BANNERJEE received a "phenomenal" letter'while
I was at Adyar, but not in my presence. He gave me an account of the
incident almost immediately afterwards.
He had handed some folded manuscript of his own to Mr. Damodar, tAl be
read through before i1l8ertion in The l'heo.ovhW. Mr. Damodar touk the
manuscript, turned over the sheets quickly, said he would read it directly,
refolded the manuscript, and placed it on the table. Taking up the manu-
script shortly after, it was found that a" Tibetan" envelope was lying in the
fulds, addressed to Harisinghi Rupsinghi in the blue pencil ·writing said tAt
be that of Mahatma Koot Hoomi.
A TEST PHENOMENON!
" December 25th.-Grand phenomenon at Shrine: six or seven notes to
different pers01l8 simultaneously appear in the silver bowl-one in Mahrathi
to Tookaram, in which his secret name was ,.ritten." (Colonel Olcott's diary
for 1883.) To the copy I possess of tllis extract, Colonel Olcott has
appended the following note: •• A Hindu receives from his Guru, at the
• thread ceremony,' when 1\ boy of about seven, 1\ mystical name, and this
lIe always keeps a secret. This test was therefore perfect." This note
of Colonel Olcott's has been erossed through by a pencil by Mr. Danludar,
who read through the extracts from Colonel Olcott's diary before they
were given to me, and who has substituted the st;\tement: " It was a part of
llia name, but never used by him in c.()rrespondence or anywhere else, and
th~refore unknown to even his friends."
Mr. Tookaram Tatya informed me that the name was his "surname" or
"family name," and he told me at once what it was: Padl!ul. He said that.
On Phenomena connected fcitl, Tkeo8opllY. 377
.
nobody km,w it at Madras, but his only ground for thinking so appeared to
be that he does not commonly use it. The name is no secret, and he said
that friends of his in Bombay may know it. Mahrathi, as already mentioned,
is Mr. Damodar's vernacular, and Mr. Damodarhad lived in Bombay previous
to the removal of the headquarters of the Society to Madras. But the mere
fact that the knowledge of the family name of a prominent Hindu member
of the Society has thus come to be chamcterised by Colonel Olcott as a
.. perfect test," is enough in itself to betoken upon what a flimsy fabric of
evidence his great convictions may rest•
.GpPENDIX XIV.
PROFESSOR SMITH'S LETTER SEWN WITH SILK.
Colonel Olcott sta.ted in his deposition that a letter which had been
addressed by Professor Smith, of Sydney University, to Mahatma M--,
.. and sent enclosed in a letter to Madame Blavatsky, and which was sewed
through and through many times with silk of different colours, had been
removed and another paper substituted inside without the threads having
been broken." Madame Coulomb declared to me that it was she herself who,
with very great care, and after a long examination of the silk threads,
unpicked the stitches on one side of the letter and sewed them back by
means of a hair. The "Mahatma" enclosure had been inserted, she said, by
Madame Blavatsky, who had previously read it over to Madame Coulomb,
and the latter quoted some words which she said had formed part of Mahatma
1I--'s reply. Madame Coulomb also said that in sewing the stitches back
ahe had pulled the silk somewhat "tighter" than it had previol1sly been, in
order that she might have enough silk to tie the final knot, and as a con-
sequence, after tying the knot, there were IJ\)me small ends of silk to spare,
which she cut off, and which she showed to me.
Having written to ProfeBBOr Smith on the subject, I received from him a
letter in which he kindly sent the seWD up note for inspection, and made the
following statements concenling it:-
"It contains the enclosure with which it was returned. I slit
up the side of the paper to get the enclosure out, after examining
the whole carefully with a magnifying glass. I could believe that
Madame Coulomb unpicked the silk and restored it again only if I saw
her do it. Observe how closely the ends were cut off so as to leave nothing
to hold by. . • . . Madame Coulomb's partial knowledge of the writing
on the enclosure goes for little, as I described it all in a letter to Madame
Blavatsky."
I examined the sewn-up note, and observed that the threads on one side had
beenclearlypulled tighter than those of the other aide, and also that the silk of
the more tightly pulled stitches had been handled more than the silk of the
otherside, as was manifest by its peculiar frayed appearance. Apart from theBe
signa, my examination of the note left me without any doubt that the
opening and reclosing of it, as described by Madame Coulomb, were far from
being impossible. I was desirous, however, of clearly establishing whether
the note could be so opened and closed or not, but as the operation demanded
2 B
Digitized by Google
378 .A.ppelUlice8 to Nr. Hodgson'8 Report
a certain 80rt of delicate care in which I might prove deficient, I ret{uested
Mrs. Sidgwick to undertake the task.
Account by Mas. SIDGWICL
Mr. Hodg80n brought me a let~er which Professor Smith of Sydney had
sent to Madame Blavatsky to be delivered to Mahatma M--. This letter
had boen carefully folded up, and the edges doubled over I\Ild sewn down
with red and yellow Hoas silk. It was returned by Madame Blavatsky
apparently intact, but on cutting opep one side, without interfering with the
silk, Profeaaor Smith found inside a note purporting to come from the
Mahatma. This note conld not, I think, have got there by natural
means unleas the sewing had boen unpicked at one end. Madame Coulomb
aaaerted, 80 Mr. Hodgson told me, that she had unpicked the silk at one
end, and sewn it up again by means of a hair. Profeaaor Smith did not
think this poasible, and Mr. Hodgson wished me to repeat tho operation,
which Madame Coulomb aaaerted that she had performed, with a view to
ascertaining its poaaibility.
I thought I could detect slight signa of Madame Coulomb's operations at
one end of the folded paper, and as she said that in sewing it up again she
had pulled the silk tighter than before in order to leave a margin for
fastening, I selected what I thought was the other end, in order to
secure a margin for myself too. Before undoing the sewing I made careful
diagrR.ms of the way in which the stitches went, and of the relative poait~ons
in each stitch of the two colours. The fastening knot was not quite easy
to undo, but otherwise the unpicking atl'orded no difficulties. The difficul-
ties in sewing it up arose from the impossibility of using a needle in the
ordinary way owing to the shortneaa of the silk. Taking Madanie Coulomb's
hint, however, I found no great difficulty, though the I,roceas was tedious,
in pulling the silk through its old holes by means of a loop of hair. By
pulling the stitches tight I secured length enough for fastening at the end,
and the lIuperO.uous fragments I then cut ott Before replacing the sewing
I wrote initials inside to pro\"e that I had undone it.
ELBANOR MnDBBD SIDGWICK.
I returned the letter afterwards to Profeaaor Smith, with statements by
Mra. Sidgwick and myself, and have received a reply from Mra. Smith on
behalf of her husband (who was too ill to be able to write himself), from
which it appears that Professor and MI,.. Smith were quite satisfied, in con-
sequence (If the operation performed by ?tlra. Sidgwick, tll&t the supposed
evidence (.f "occult" agency was worthless.
APPENDIX XV. (VUk p. 293.)
CONCERNING H.A.NDWRI!l'ING, d:c.
Ezamination by Mas. SIDGWICK.
Mr. Hodgson was anxious that his statements and conclusions, as regards
the handwriting of the Koot Hoomi documents and some other points,
should, as far as poasible, be verified in detail by lOme other perlOn, and I
have accordingly ezamined all the MSS. in question, which he has had in
Digitized by Google
On PM,WI1Jenil cOIlIJected fcith Tkc08opl'!I. 379
his handa in England, with great care, with the result that I find myaelf in
complete agreementwith him. His obeervations on documents which he saw
only in India I cannot, of course, verify.
Firat, as regards the plates. The specimens of isolated lettera are, I
think,lO far as I have compared them with the originals (or in the case of
thoae taken from Mr. Sinnett'a aeriea with tracings which I had previously
compared with the originala), aa nearly facaimilea as can be expected, with
the exception of a certain tremulousneas which they ought not to have, but
which doea not affect them for our preaent purpose. I have thua compared
the larger number of the specimens, and where I have not compared the
copy with the particular letter from which it waa traced, I can teatify to ita
strong resemblance to many other specimens that might have been aelected.
The platea reIJreaenting abort paaaagea from diJrerent documenta give a good
general idea of the writing, but in lOme instancea fail in giving the
individual character of particular lettera. Still they are quite aufficiently
accurate to help the reader to uJideratand the discuaaion. ThOBe copied
from writing in blue pencil are, aa might be expected, leas cloae facaimiles
than the othera.
I have carefully verified every atatement Mr. Hodgaon makea about the
acknowledged handwriting of Madame Blavatsky, and about the K.H. MSS.
in England which he attributea to her. I entirely agree with all he saya,
and am myaelf atrongly convinced that the same pel'8On wrote both. The
development of tho K.H. writing is very marked, and the gradual elimina-
tion of Blavatskian forma is, to say the least of it, auggeative. The argument
is greatly atrengthened by t.he occaaionalapaamodic appearance of Blavatakian
forma-aeeminglyby accident-throughout the K.H. )(88. attributed to her
-and that this is an accident, and an accident which the writer deaired to
avoid, is proved, I think, by the erasures and alterations. The last k
selected from K.H. No.3 on Plate Ill., which oceura in the original in the
word Greek, is a fair instance of theae alterations.
But convincing aa the two considerations already mentioned are, I think
the prevalence of certain peculiaritiea throughout both aeta of documents ia
more convincing atill, and in particular the very peculiar a and 9 constantly
occurring in both. It 80 happened that when Mr. Gribble's pamphlet, men-
tioned by Mr. Hodgaon, firat reached me, while Mr. Hodgson waa atill in
India, I had in my handa Bome lettera of Madame Blavataky'a and a long
K.H. document, and naturally turned to Madame Blavataky's handwriting
to see if it poaaeaaed the characteristica mentioned by Mr. Gribble. There,
without doubt, I found among othera this peculiar a, but it was with a ahock
of aurprise that I found this same a, which I had never seen in any other
handwriting, occurring even more conspicuously in the K.H. document than
in Madame Blavataky'a acknowledged writing. I have aeen a aomewhat
. similar formation of a in the handwriting of a Rusaian gentleman.
I think evidence that the K. H. handwriting is a disguised one may be
found in other variations of form besidea thOle which show development.
The variations I apeak of remain more or leas constant through a particular
document, but do not appear in other documenta, and thus appear to me to
suggeat that the writer waa not using all the forma of lettera instinctively,
and had not a perfectly clear and 118raiatent idea of what all the forma abould
2 B 2
Digitized by Google
380 A.ppendicc.9 to Mr. Hodg80n'8 Report.
be. No doubt some variations might be found in every handwriting from
document to document, due to a di1ference of IIpeed in the writing, to the
kind of pen employed, &C. But those in the K. H. writing seem to me
more marked than this, and are the more noticeable all the writing is regular
and very seldom gives one the impression of being carelessly done.
I have counted the English and German d', in various writings of
Madame Blaval:.eky. It is a matter of collsiderable difficulty to count
correctly the number of timell a letter occurs in a long IlL'!. if it is at all
frequent j I am, therefore, not surprised to find that my numbers are slightly
different from Mr. Hodgsoll's. As, however, we in no ca8/J diffel' by 10 m1u:li.
as 5 per cent. it is evident that the difference is of no importance whatever
to the argument, and I therefore considered that it would be Wallte of time
to repeat the counting. The extreme rarity of the English d in all the
acknowledged handwriting of Madame Blavatsky in our hands which baa
been written since the K. H. correspondence began, except in the B. Replie.<J,
combined with its comparative abundance in the earlier lotters and in the
B. Replie.<J, is very Btriking, and it is difficult to attribute it to accident.
I have verified completely every statement about the letter called
K. H. (Z) and about Mr. Damodar's ordinary writing, and have little doubt
that the K. H. (Z) Wall written by him.
I have also examined the long document professedly in the handwriting
of Mr.Bhavani Shankar. It appears to me to bear very evident indications of
being written in a disguised hand, and to have enough of the marked
characteristics of Mr. Damodar's handwriting to point to him all the writer.
I have compared the letter which Mr. Hodgson has called the "Koot Hoomi
Lal Sing" with the quotations from it in Mr. Sinnott's" Occult World,"
and find all Mr. Hodgson does, more than 60 di1ferences, without counting
mis-spellings, changes in punctuation, &C.
It only remains to speak of the mis'lIpellings, faults of idiom, &c., quoted
by Mr. Hodgson from the K.H. documents, and from Madame Blavatsky'a
own letters. I have compared all these with the originals and believe them
to be correctly transcribed. More of the same kind might be adduced.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
Digitized by Goo
EXPLA.NATION OF PLATES, &c.
PLAN OF OCCULT RoOl1 A.'i'D SURRCIUNDIN08.-Vide pp. 220·222.
PLATE I.-Concerning tile groups of individual letters in this Plate.
wllich are very cl08e facsimiles of my own tracings from the original
documents, "uu pp. 284-291, 296.
The specimens B (I.), B (n.), &c.• which are on the ~hole \'ery good
representations of the originals tllOUgh not accurate in every detail, aro
taken from Madame Blavatsky's undoubted writings, with the exception of
B (x.), which represents the Blavatsky-Coulomb document referred to 011
p.317. The remaining Blavatsky-Culllombdocuments being in India, I have
been unable to produce facsimiles of thenl in this Repor!;.
B (L) is from a letter written to a Hindu in August, 1878.
B (II.) is from a letter written to Mr. C. C. Massey in July, 1879.
B (IlL), B (IV.), and B (v.) are from lettel'S lent by Mr. Hume, received
February-June, 1882.
B (VI.) is from an envelope addressed to Mr. C. C. Massey in 1884.
B (VII.) is from an envelope addressed to Mr. Myers about the beginning
of October, 1884.
B (VIII.) is from a letter to Mr. Myel'S about October, 1884.
B (IX.) is from B Replies (vide 1).200), written about the end of 1884 or
the beginning of 1885.
B (x.), the Blavatsky-Coulomb document, was probably written at 80ma
time between 1879 and 1883.
PLATE n.-The specimens K.H. (I.), K,H. ;(n.), &c., are from K.H.
documents which I consider to be the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky, and
they are for the m08t part good representations of the originals. The K.H.
(VII.), however, is taken from writing in blue pencil, which is much blurred,
80 that the reproduction is not 80 good as in the other cases, the originals of
which are in ink.
K.H. (I.) represents a page from the Koot Hoomi Lal Sing letter to Mr.
Hume, of November lat, 1880. I have placed a small dash under
many of the letters for the purpose of directing attention to
peculiarities mentioned in the preceding diacuaaion.
K.H. (u.)-K.H. (\,1.) are from K.H. documents received about 1881-
1882, K.H. (II.) being taken from the commencement of one of
Digitized by Google
those documents, aud K.H. (III.) frolll the end of the same
docllluent.
K.B. (VII.) is from a letter to Mr. l\lyers in 1884.
K.H. (z.), the original of which I attlibute to Mr. Damodar (ride pp.
294-297), does not represent ono continuous extract. I
obtained permi88ion to reproduce different portions of the K.H.
(Z.) document, which I directed to be placed together as in the
facsimile. The original is in blue pencil, nnd much blurred, and
several of the most important letters appear in the facsimile
without their original characteristics. Thus the a of 31(mpathu..
(16). is in the original document a typical specimen of the bea/.:t!(l
a formation, and several of the g's in the lithograph have lost all
trace of a simiL"lr beaked fomlation which they exhibit in the
original document. Still the correspondence with the original is
eloBe enough to enable the reader to see sevoral important differ-
ences between it and K.H. (VII.), and especially that it contains
no inBtance of tJle left gal) Itroke, of which he will find various
inBtances in K.H. (VII.), received abo'lt the slUue time in 1884.
D (I.) and D (n.) repreBent tWQ Bpecimens of Mr. Dnmodar's uu<loubte<l
writing in 1884.
Digitized by Goo
~--------
Report b!l Mr. Netherclift. 381
3. REPORT OF MR. F. G. NETHERCLIFT, EXPERT IN HAND-
WRITING, ON THE BLAVATSKY-COULOMB OO,cUMENTS.
10, BEDFORD Row, W.C.
Marel. 17th, 1885.
. In compliance with your instructions, I have carefully examined
and compared the several documents you have submitted to me for my
opinion as a Professional Expert in handwriting, which are contained
in Two Packets as follows :-
PAOKET l.
Consists of an Envelope marked 3, in which is contained a slip of
paper the writing on which commences, "The Mahatma has heard," &c.
A Telegram in a different handwriting. An envelope addressed
Madame E. Coulomb. A letter on green paper; and a letter on pink
paper. In answer to the first question in my instructions the whole of
these documents, with the exception of the Telegram, were written by
lIadame Blavatsky.
The Envelope marked 7 containing a scrap of ruled paper marked
10, the writing on which commences" La po8u," &c., is by the hand of
M~ame Biavatsky.
An Envelope directed Mme. and Monr. Coulomb is likewise to-
Madame Blavatsky's hand.
An Envelope marked 10, containing a letter marked 2 the writing
of which commences" Mo. belle chere o,mie," is likewise by the hand of
Madame Biavatsky.
• • * • * *
An Envelope marked 28 containing a letter of several pages written
in violet ink. The whole of this is written by Madame Blavatsky.
An Envelope marked No. 11, containing a letter written in violet
ink commencing" Mo, chere Madame CO'Idlnnh," is a.ll by the hand of
lladame Biavatsky.
PAOKET 2.
An Envelope, postmark "Cambridge," containing a letter on
foreign paper addressed to Mr. Myers in the undoubted handwriting
of Madame Biavatsky.
Scrap written in pencil commencing "Damodar send me," &c.,
in the undoubted handwriting of Madame Biavatsky.
Envelope containing 2 sheets foreign paper dated Elberfeld,
addressed to Mr. Myers, in the undoubted handwriting of Madame
Blavatsky.
A letter one sheet addressed to Mr. Myers commencing" You are
very kind," &c., in the undoubted handwriting of Madame Biavatsky.
A letter consisting of a sheet and a-half addressed to Mr. Myers
Digitized by Google
382 Note 01. Oertain Phenomena not
commencing II It does seem extraordinary," &c., in the undoubted hand-
writing of Madame Blavatsky.
On placing Madame Blavatsky's genuine or acknowledged hand-
writings ill juxtaposition [with the doubted ones]. I really cannotsee that
there has been any attempt to disguise the hand [in the latter]. Every
characteristic of her handwriting may be traced throughout. Some of
the writings appear more rapidly executed than others ; as will always
be observed in looking at a mass of correspondence; but all the writings
I have mentioned as being positively written by Ma.da.me Blavatsky, are
undeniably hers without disguise. If she intended any of them to be in
a feigned hand, I can only say that the disguise is so flimsy that any
Expert would not notice the attempt.
... *
(Signed)
April 7th, 1885.
FREDERICK GEORGE NETRERCLIFT.
[The asterisks indicate the position of passages about Mr. Damodal"s
writing, and the K.H. writings to which Mr. Hodgson has referred on
p. 282, as those which were originally submitted to Mr. Netherclift.
No statements of Mr. Netherclift about the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters
themselves have been omitted. A second batch of Blavatsky-Coulomb
letters was submitted shortly afterwards to Mr. NethercIift, who
returned them all in a packet along with the undoubted writings of
Madame Blavatsky entrusted to him for comparison. This packet of
writings was endorsed by him as follows: II The whole of the writings
contained in this packet are by the hand of Madame Blavatsky,
whether acknowledged to be genuine or otherwise. They vary in the
degree of care with which they are written, but in my opinion there
is no attempt to disguise the hand.-(Signed) F. G. N."]
4. NOTE ON CERTAIN PHENOMENA NOT DEALT WITH IN
MR. HODGSON'S REPORT.
By MRS. H. SIDGWICK.
There are certain narratives of phenomena connected with the
Theosophical Society which haye been brought to the notice of the
Committee,whichhave not comewithin the scope ofMr. Hodgson's investi-
gations. The Committee think, however, that in forming a judgment of
the whole p,vidence the reader should have before hint as full an account
as possible of all such phenomena as there seems to be a prima facie
difficulty in explaining by the recognised laws of nature, and they
hal"e, therefore, asked me to put together in the present note the residuum
Digitized by Google
Dealt with i/~ MI'. Hodg$M'S Report. .383
of narratives with which Mr. Hodgson has not dealt, and to append such
remarks as seem to me to throw light on them.
I may observe that .0.11 to which there will be occasion for me to refer
were printed in our first report; the only partial exception being an
incident described by Mr. Rudolph Gebhard (see p. 385), of which we
had received no written account when the first report was printed, and
which we, therefore, there very briefly mentioned. No later phenomena
have come under our notice.
The phenomena I shall have to discuss consist of four cases of
letters received in a mysterious manner, and four cases of supposed
" astral" apparitions. The mysterious element can be easily eliminated
in one of the letter-phenomena,and in the case of an apparition of which
Madame Blavatsky was the alleged percipient. As regards the other
cases of letters, it is difficult, I think, with our present knowledge, to
suggest a completely satisfactory explanation; but with the evidence
before us of an elaborate combination, under Madame Blavatsky's
direction, to produce spurious marvels, I cannot attach much weight to
this difficulty. The remaining cases of apparitions are undoubtedly
interesting, but for reasons which I shall give later on, I do not think
that stress can be laid upon thc:a as evidence for the occult powers of
" Mahatma lI." and Mr. Damodar.
The followinll account is from Dr. HUbbe Schleiden, who is a well-
known German savant and publicist, author of" Ethiopien," and other
works. Madame BlavatSky was in England at the time of the incident.
Elberfeld, Auguat, 1884.
Dear Madam,-You requested me to state to you the particular circum-
stances under which I received my fi1'8t communication fronl Mahatma K.H.
I have much pleasure in doing so.
On the moming of the 1st of this month Colonel Olcott and 1 were travel-
ling by an expreaa train from here to Dreaden. A few days before I had
written a letter to the Mahatmas which Colonel Olcott had addreaaed and en-
closed to you, which, however, as I now hear, never reached you butwas taken
by the Maate1'8 whilst it was in the hands of the post officials. At the time
mentioned I was not thinking of this letter, but was relating to Colonel
Olcott some eventa of my life, expreaaing also the fact that since my sixth or
seventh year I had never known peace or joy, and asking Colonel Olcott's
opinion on the meaning of some striking hardships I have gone Utrough. In
this converaation we were interrupted by the railway-guard demanding our
ticketa. When I moved forwards and raised myself partly from the seatin order
to hand over the ticketa, Colonel Olcott noticed something white lying behind
my back on that side of me which was opposite to the one where he was sitting.
When I took up that which had appeared there it turned out to be a Tibetan
envelope, in which I found a letter from Mahatma K. H., written with blue
pencil in his well-known and unmistakable handwriting. As there were
several other persona unacquainted to us in the comlllU'tment, I SUPI)ose the
Digitized by Google
384. Note 011 Certain PlImDmelia flot
Master chose this place for depositing the letter near me where it wu the
least likely to attract the unwelcome attention and curiosity of outsiders.
The envelope was plainly addressed to me, and the communication contained
in the letter was a consoling reflection on the opinion which I had five or ten
minutes ago given on the dreary events of my past life. The Mahatma ex-
plained that such events and the mental misery attached to it were beyond
the ordinary run of life, but that hardships of all kinds would be the lot of
one striving for higher spiritual development. He very kindly expressed
his opinion that I had already achieved some philanthropic work for the
good of the world. In this letter were also answered some of the questions
which I had put in my firat-mentioned letter, and an assurance was given
me that I was to receive aseistance and advice when I should be in need of it.
I dare say it would be wmecessary for me to ask fou to inform the
Mahatma of the devoted thankfulness which I feel towards him for the great
kindness shown to me, for the Master will know of my sentiments without
my forming them into more or less inadequate words.-I am, dear madam,
in due respect, yours faithfully,
HOBBE SCHLBIDEN.
To Madame Blavatsky, Elberfeld, Platzhoftitrasse, 12.
Elberfeld, 9/11/84.
Dear Sir,-In reply to your question about the letter from Mahatma.
K. H., which I received in a railway carriage of an express train while in
motion, I beg to say that it appears to me absolutely impossible that the
letter could have been brought into the train by any supposed agent of
Madame Blavatsky's. It is true we had not changed carriages since leaving
Elberfeld, but the letter did not at all fall out of the air, but wu found
behind my back when I moved, and must, therefore, have been deposited
between my back and the cushion of the seat against which I was lying.
There was no possibility of getting there for any matter in one of the three or
four aggregate states known to our Western science. Besides, Madame
Blavatsky could have nothing to do with this letter, which was a reply to
questions which I had written on Tuesday, the 29th July, and which left
Elberfeld on that or the following day for London, addreB:led to Madame
Blavatsky. Now, these questions could not have been delivered in London be-
fore Thursday or Friday of that week, and a reply could, in the ordinary postal
way, not have been in Elberfeld before Saturday or Sunday. The event of
my receiving the reply of the Mahatma, however, occurred on Friday morning,
the 1st August. I may mention here that Madame Blavatsky assured me
she never found my questions enclosed in the letter to her; these must have
been taken out while in the hands of the post. My best proof of the
genuineness of this phenomenon, I find, though, is the contents of the letter,
for it was not only a reply to the said questions, but also referred to tile
conversation I was just at that time having with Colonel Olcott. I cannot
doubt that this handwriting of the Mahatma must, therefore, have been
precipitated by him at that very instant and transmitted to me by a magic
process which lies beyond the power of ordinary mell.-I am, dear sir, yours
very truly,
HUBBE SCHLBIDEN.
To F. W. H. Myers, Esq., Cambridge.
Digitized by Google
Dealt '/cUn iI' Mr. HodU80I"8 Repo-rf. 385
A fewmonths earlier a letteris said to have fallen in a railwaycarriage
occupied only by Colonel Olcott and Mr. Mohini, in the express train
between Paris and London. But Madame Blavatsky and Babula were
then in Paris or its neighbourhood, and though Colonel Olcott and Mr.
Mohini both n'laintain that the letter could not have been placed in the
compartment before they started, in such a manner as to fall in the
course of their journey, they have both shown themselves to be too
inobservant and inaccurate as witnesses for their conviction on this
point to be of much value. But in Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden's case I do
not feel able to· make a definite suggestion as to how the letter
reached him by natural means ; for, as I have said, Madame Blavatsky
was in England, ancl we cannot point to any known agent of hers whom
we know to have been at Elberfeld at the time. Still, we- cannot say
that there were none, or even that one did not accompany Colonel
Olcott and Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden in the railway carriage. The relevancy
of the Koot Hoomi letter to (1) Dr. Hiibbe Schleiden's questions in his
letter to Madame Blavatsky, and (2) to his conversation with Colonel
Olcott, I am unable to treat as evidentially importsnt, without more
accurate knowledge as to the contents of the two letters, since I cannot
regard it as improbable beforehand that the conversation should take
the particular turn which rendered the Koot Hoomi letter appropriate.
I do not profess, however, as I have said, to give a completely
satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon. I am merely suggesting
possibilities and giving reasons why I cannot, under the circumstances,
attach weight to it as evidence of occult agency. Other simpler-and
easier explanations may suggest themselves to the reader's mind. It
must be borne in mind that the training for adeptship under Madame
Blavatsky's supervision is not unlikely to include orders which must be
blindly carried out, to convey letters mysteriously to other people.
I give next Mr. Rudolf Gebhard's account of his experience, written
out by him for Mr. Hodgson. This phenomenon also must, I think,
remain without special explanation. It is unfortunate that Mr. Gebhard
did not write an account of it at the time it occurred, as it is of course
possible that, after an interval of three months, some importsnt detail
may have escaped his memory.
Adyar, December 31st, 1884.
DEAR Sm,-Complying with your request I shall giveyou in the following
an account of a phenomenon as witnessed by me in my father's house lOme
couple of months ago.
Before I describe what baa happened, allow me to say a few worda about
myself ; it will serve to show that I am better adapted than moat "therpeople
to advance an opinion on these subjects.
Since my earliest boyhood I have always had a taste and a knack for
conjuring tricks. When in London I took lllllOns there from a profeasional
conjurer, Prof. C. E. Field, a man whom I consider to be one of the best
Digitized by Google
386 Note M Oertain Pltellotnf'lta not
sleight-of-hand men 1 ever met. Later on 1 made the personal acquaintance
of most o.f our leading performers in that line and exchanged tricks
with them; there is not a single line of conjuring 1 am not acquainted
with, may that be coin or card tricks, or the so-called anti -spiritualistic
tricks in imitation of a spiritualistic seance. 1 then think that when such
a phenomenon takes place in my presence, it is quite a natural thing for
me to keep my eyes wide open, in order not to be deceived by a trick, amI
this is the reason why 1 think myself especially qualified to advance an
opinion about the matter on hand.
Accotmt of a Phenomellon that occurred in Elberfeld (Germany), on
&ptember -, 1884.
At 9 p.m. of the above named date a small circle of friends, Theosophist
and non-Theosophist, were sitting in the drawing-room of my father's house
(Platzhoffstrasse 12). Madame Blavatsky, who was one of the party, wsa
seated on a couch in the middle of the room, and the rest were seated in
a semi-circle around her.
Whilst the conversation was going on Madame Blavatsky suddenly
looked up, and taking a listening attitude said there was something going
on in the room. but that she could not then make out for certain whatit was.
Mrs. H., an American lady and a clairvoyante, said that she had
felt an influence since some time already, and Madame Blavatsky and Mrs.
H. then saw like a ray of light going towards a large oil painting hanging
over a piano in the same room.
My mother, sitting with her back to the piano and opposite a looking-
glass, said that she had seen in the glass like a faint flash of lightning. After
a minute or so Madame Blavatsky asked the party what they would like
to take place, as she now felt sure that the "Master" would do something
for us that night.
Different requests were made, but finally it wsa unanimously resolved
"that CJ letter alwuld b. aakeil fOI', addre..ed to my father, atid treating
on II subject that he a1wuld mentaUy u;iah for." (I draw your attention to
the three points; nobody knew beforehand that the whole party would
choose a letter ; second, that my father should be the addre88ee ; third, what
subject my father might be thinking of. Madame Blavatsky did not
influence our choice as she did not advance any suggestion.) Madame
then said she saw something going on with the picture above spoken of
and that probably we should find something there. 1 accordingly got up
and examined that picbure, but could not find anything. As the picture
was fastened to the wall in a slanting position, the top part hanging over,
1 lifted it oft' the wall and examined carefully every inch of it. No
letter! The space then between the wall and the back of the picture Willi
fully eight inches and perfectly lit up, sa there was a gas bracket on each
side of it. 1 let the picture fall back and said 1 could not find anything,
but Madame Blavatsky told nie to try again, and 1 repeated my examination
in the same way. Not contented with that 1 got up on the piano (a.
grand,) and there again looked behind the picture and passed my hand
along the top of it, twice. Nothing! (I had been searching all this time
for a letter, not for another article where perhaps a slip of paper had
Digitized by Google
Dealt trith ill Mr. Hodgson's lleport. 381
escaped my attention.) I turned round to Madame Blavatsky, saying that
I could find nothing, when she exclaimed, "There it is!" I turned
sharply round and a lettw fell down from behind the picture on the piano.
I picked it up. It was addressed to my father, (" Herm Consul Gebhard ")
and treated of the subject he had been thi'lking of.
Now I wish to draw your attention to BOme important points.
1. There was-no secret receptacle either in the frame or at the back of
the picture. 2. The letter was in size 5in. by 2iin. twt folded up into a
smaller compaBII. 3. I was the only one who came near the picture ; all the
others kept their seats except one gentleman, who got up, but whom I did
not allow to handle the picture. Madame Blavatsky, seated all the time on
the couch, distant four to five yards. 4. Between the time I last touched
the picture and the moment the letter put in an appearance there elapsed
from 15 to 20 seconds. After Madame Blavatsky had said "There it is," I
turned round. The letter then had not appeared but came in view
about one second after that. How could Madame Blavatsky have seen
it 1 5. The letter lay on the piano about fioe inehu off the waU! The
picture frame at the bottom part touches the wall, because as I said
before the top part hangs over. Now there may be space enough for a letter,
being flat against the wall, to glide through, but then that letter, continuing
its way, ought to drop behind the piano (i.e., between the wall and the
piano and from there on to the floor), as the piano does not touch the wall.
How can it be found five inches oft'the wall 7 6. The subject my father had
in his mind was known to me, because I knew he had that very morning
received a letter from my brother in New York on BOme personal matter, and
when the letter had been decided upon by the party I whispered to my
father, "Ask for an answer on that letter, this morning," and he said he would.
I consider this a most complete phenomenon, and I challenge any
conjurer of to-day to repeat it, and I am willing to pay £100 to see it done
by a conjurer under the Banle conditions. Perhaps Mr. Maskelyne (Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke, Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly), who has done already so
much to detect mediuntistic frauds (1), will take up this challenge.
If there is any further information you want, I anI entirely at your
service.-I remain, dear sir, your obedient servant,
R. Hodgson, Esq., Adyar. RUD. GEBHARD.
I learn from Mr. Hodgson that, in reply to his inquiries, Mr. Gebhard
stated that he did not think that a confederate could have throWIl the
letter without ita being observed, but he did not seem to have
previously contemplated the possibility of a confederate haling been
present.
The following is an account of another letter-phenomenon by a lady
resident in London, and knoWIl to some members of the Committee :-
One morning in July, [1884,]1 was called by Madame Blavatsky to her room
where she was still in bed. She desired me to open a drawer and give her
out a letter which was lying there closed and addre88ed. I did BO. She
asked me to notice that the letter was addre88ed in the handwriting of a
person whom I knew, that it was fastened, and apparently had not been
Digitized by Google
•
•
388 Note on Certain PMnomena flOt
opened. She then took a match and having lighted it proceeded to burn the
letter. I protested against this being done, but she answered .. It is the
Master's orden," and further added, "You had better go to your room and
meditate." I went upstail'8 into my room and shut the door. I remained
there some time considering the whole aft'air. The window of the
room, which was at the top of the house, was wide open and looked out
into a garden. Before the window was a dre&8ing-table.oll which was a pink
cloth ; there was no mirror on the table, only one or two small articles of
toilet, and the sun was shining full into the room. I went to the window
without any definite reason,and as I approached the table I perceived on the
pink cover a large white envelope. I took it up, looked at it, and found that
it was closed and evidentlycontained a letter, but there was no supel'llCription.
I had the letter in my hand for a little while and then looked atit again. To
my JV9&t surprise I found that where, but a few moments previously, there
had been a blank space, there was distinctly visible a name and addre&8 written
in purple ink, in a handwriting which I well knew as being that of one
of the Mahatmas. The Dame and addre&8 was that of the writer of the letter
I had previously Been burned.
A phenomenon of tIlls kind may be, and in this case was, as I under-
stand, very impressive to the witness, without carrying conviction to
other people. For it is impossible for them to feel sure that it was
adequately distinguished from what, I suppose, we are all constantly
liable to, the mere non-observation of something which was there all the
time. It is possible also that some combination of substances may have
been used instead of ink, which would become coloured (temporarily at
any rate) by exposure for a few minutes to the air. A chemist, well
qualified to give an opinion, tells me that he thinks such a combination
might be used; but we have never seen and have no access to the
writing in question, and without this it is of course impossible to obtain
an expert's opinion of any value as to whether this particular writing
could have been so produced or not. I do not myself think it likely
that it was so produced.
As to a post-card received by Mr. Keightley in Paris, on which
Mahatma M.'sinitials were written, and a letterwhich Madame Blavatsky
professed to read without opening, also in Paris, it is unnecessary to say
more than that Babula seems to have intervened between the postman
and the recipient in both cases. The letters probably came by an earlier
delivery than that by which they appeared to arrive.
I proceed to "astral" apparitions. In August, 1884, Mr. Myers
received the following letter from Mr. PAdshAh, a young Parsee gentle-
man and a Theosophist.
77, Elgin Crescent, Notting Hill, W.
Saturday, August 16th.
Dear Mr. MY(ll'l,-Madame has just told me that she saw Damodar last
night, quite distinctly, standing in a corner facing the chair in which she was
Digitized by Google
Dealt with in Mr. Hodgson's Report. 389
seated in the drawing-room. There were present.in the room, Mr. and Mrs.
Oakley, Mr. Gebhard, and othe1'8, who do not seem to have known or felt
his presence. Madame tells me that he had come to ask what it was she had
told him about some trunk the night before. It appearB she had told him
the previous night to take care in the Custom House of a certain trunk taken
by Babula, who has proceeded to India to-day. Darnodar, unable, however,
to make himself more distinct. as Madame desired, seems to have not under-
stood her. So he appeared again this morning nlore than once, asking,
" Why do you not answer about the trunk ¥" Madame tells me she related
the appearance the night before to Mrs. Z.,'" Mrs. X.,... and Miss Z.... The
circumstance would have been thought of no more, but on my consulting
Madame this afternoon about some articles about to appear in The TheOlOphiBt
she naturally spoke ofDamodar ;and among otherthings, very enthusiastically
of his latest development. It occurred to me that this was a splendid chance
for the Society for Psychical Research ; you had repeatedly desired me to
commit to paper what I have seen or might see, and there are many friencIa
in England and India who are ready to trust my word. I suggested I should
write to you, and wait for Damodar's letter, where he might refer to his astral
presence. But that would be no test. I suggested an immediate despatch
of a telegram, and also a letter to you aigned by Mr. Keightley and Mr.
Gebhard, who had come some time before, and myself. Mr. Keightley made
some difficulties as to the value of the test, alleging that our word may not
suffice for the Society for Psychical Research. I prefer to think otherwise.
And, accordingly, the telegram is decided upon. It is in these terms;-
To Damodar, Theoeophiat Office, Madras.
Telegraph instantly what you told me last night. BLA.VA.T8KY.
You will see that I have suggested the telegram should be from Madame
Blavatsky, to undo any difficulty Damodar might make to reply to otherB-
for instance, to the Society for Psychical Researt'h.
Madanle is going to-day to Elberfeld, and I shall open the answer as soon
as Damodar telegraphs it, and send you a copy.
I hope Damodar will make no difficulties now, and the test will be, we
trust. if not complete, at least of considerable scientific value.-I remain,
dear Mr. Mye1'8, youn sincerely, B. J. PA.D8BA.H.
The telegram received from Mr. Damodar in reply seemed distinctly
irrelevant. It ran; "Master wanta you here to-night don't fail look into
your pocket."
On August 30th Mr. Myers proceeded to Elberfeld and inquired of
lIr. Keightley (a Theosophist and a graduate of Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, who was staying at Mr.Gebhard's along with Madame Blavatsky,
:Mr. Mohini, Colonel Olcott, doc.), whether he had received Mr. Damodar's
telegram and what he thought of it. He replied that the party had
left London on August 16th, and arrived at Elberfeld on the 17th. On
arriving they were met by a telegram from Mr. PAdshah, reporting Mr.
• J.'ictitiou8 initials.
Digitized by Google
390 Note 01. Certain Phmomena not
Damodar's reply. The whole party, said Mr. Keightley, were surprised
and distressed at what seemed to them also the conspicuous failure of
the intended test. Madame Blavatsky said that she had in fact received
such a message, and had found such a letter in her pocket; but, of
course, recognised the inadequacy of such statement. It then occurred
to her to consult her private note-book. This was said to be contained
in a despatch-box which had been in Mr. Keightley's charge from the
time when it was packed and locked, just after the telegram had been
sent to Damodar, and just before the party left London by an evening
train, August 16th, for Elberfeld, viii Queenborough and Flushing. She
a.t once asked Mr. Keightley to go and fetch the despatch-box. In the
note-book was found the entry here translated, which was then seen by
all present. It is written partly in Russia.n, partly in English. The
words in italics are in English in the original.
" I saw suddenly Damodar this August 15th. While looking on I called,
trying to find out some one near me to call attention to hinl. I was sitting
under the looking-glass, and tried to make myself heard by Mrs. Z., who was
sitting near Mrs. Oakley. Upon seeing him, I said to him: DamodGt', can't
!IOU make '!JO'Urle'j eiBible to aU ? Instead of answering, he says to me some-
thing very strange, that he had 88en me the night before, and could not
understand what I wanted from him. He 88id: You came to me about t11:'0.
I could not utuUl'stand 1Vhat !IOU were aaking me for. I. it for a tMlnk ,ent
her.? Then 1\ few minutes later he again appeared and said: Maater 1eanu
you here to-night. Don't fail. Look into !lour pocket."
OnWednesday,September10th,aletterfromMr. Damodarwasreceived
at Elberfeld by Madame Blavatsky in the presence of Mr. Keightley,
who noted its registered envelope; * and believes that the letter had gone
first to London and been forwarded to Elberfeld.
The letter-which all who have examined it believe to be in Mr.
Damodar's handwriting-is as follows:-
Adyar, Madras, 16th August, 1884.
Respected Upaaika,-I could not make out what you wanted here when
you canle here on the morning of the 15th at about two or three of Madras
time. So in the night I attempted to come and ask you. It was between 10and
11 in the night here; so it must be between five and six in the evening of
London time. Who was that gentleman sitting near you under a big looking-
glass and who was that sllort old lady about 1 I think there were several
others in the room at the time; but I could not make out how Dlany or who
• Mr Keightley noticell that the envelope was registered, with Dalllodar, he
believes, written in the corner, and that the letter was actually in the em'eiolle
-the letter being in Damodar'lj hanllwriting. But Mr. KeightIey and Madame
Blavatsky between them then lost the envelolle. 'Ve ha,'e, however, ascer·
tained that a registered letter answering to the description of this one reachell
London on September 7th. It left Bombay on August 19th, and therefore pro-
bably was sent from Madra.'! on August 16th, or lith.
Digitized by Google
Dealt foith in Mr. Hodg8on'8 Report. '391
they were. If I had known that at that time you would be amidst so many
people I would not have attempted to come. I might have seen you later,
when you were alone. And why was it that you asked me to make myself
visible to all 7 You know I am too much of a beginner yet, in this line. It
was only because you asked me to do 80, I attempted. Whether I succeeded
or failed, I do not know. And in all this affair, the main object I came for was
not quite accomplished. I wanted to know exactly what you had come here
for 1 I heard something about a trunk; but whether you wanted me to take
care of something you had sent or whether you wanted me to send you
something I do not quite remember. However, I have sent you a parcel
and I believe it is that which you mean. Did you find in your pocket tllat
Thibetall order from the MA.S'IER to come here, to notify you about which he
sent me to you again 1 I hope yourself, nor the friends who were there,
will not speak about this to anyone and not make a public talk of it in the
Society for Psychical Re8earch and such other place8. I am sure Mr. Ewen
and others would have done it, if I had not asked you privately to prevent
the publication of the fact of Mr. Ewen having seen me when I came to see
you and Colonel Olcott and committed a blunder. I hope I have not com-
mitted a mistake in sending you the parcel.
Ever yours respectfully and sincerely,
DAlIODAR K. MAVALANKAR.
It certainly cannot be said that the possibility of collusion between
lIadame Blavatskyand Mr. Damodar is in this case excluded. But
though on the one hand it may seem strange that a planned imposture
should not have been better carried out, it must be observed on the
other hand that there are points in the evidence which look decidedly
SUSpICIOUS. Of course, if there was imposture--as, considering what we
now know about both Madame Blavatsky and Mr. Damodar, I cannot
myself profess to doubt-we cannot be sure of discovering the precise
modu8 operandi by merely reflecting on the phenomena intended to
appear. But the following may be suggested as a possible course of
events.
Let us suppose that some time in July, after she had begun her
residence at Elgin-crescent, and could therefore describe the looking-
glass and the lady, Madame Blavatsky wrote to Mr. Damodar telling
him to post a letter on August 16th, such as that we have printed, and
that she would take care to make it correspond with events in London;
and further, that when the day came she performed more or less
imperfectly-or perhaps only spoke of-her part of the programme,
but forgot the "Master-wants-you-here-to-night-look-in-your-pocket "
part. Let us further assume that the telegram to India was no
part of the original plan, and that Mr. DamOdar was left to his own
deyices in replying to it. It would not be unnatural that he should
reply as he did, that being, in fact, the only thing he was supposed to
have lold her; about the trunk he was supposed to have asked her. I
cannot regard it as at all satisfactorily established that M8.C'lllme
Digitized by Google
31}2 Note on Oertain Phenomena 110t
BIa.vatsky had no opportunity of obtaining access to her note-book
between the time when the telegram wa.s sent to Mr. Damodar and the
time when the book wa.s shown to the party at Elberfeld; and I think
the entry may have been made, or, at any rate, the last sentence added,
in that interval ;-either after Mr. Damodar's telegram wa.s received, or
at some previous moment, when it recurred to her memory that he was
to be supposed to have made that remark about the Ma.ster. Thus all
that occurred would be accounted for.
It is possible that the entry in Ma.da.me BIa.vatsky's note-book may
have been made much earlier-at the time when she first communicated
the pIa.n to Mr. Damodar-and corrected afterwards; for the names of
the persons present-Mrs. Z. and Mr. and Mrs. Oakley-are written in
lead pencil over the original purple pencil, rendering what is underneath
illegible. But I 80m not myself inclined to believe that the greater part
of it· wa.s written at this earlier date, because if it had been, I think that
Madame Blavatsky's and Mr. Damodar's descriptions of the scene
would have agreed better than they do. Madame Blavatsky's phrases,
CI I called, trying to find out some one near me". • . CI tried to
make myself heard by Mrs. Z.," &c., do not correspond well with Mr.
Damodar's question about the gentleman "sitting near" her.
There is another point which strikes me a.s somewhat suspicious
about Madame BIa.vatsky's entry in her'note-book, and which strengthens
my impression that it was made after the telegram was sent. For
what purpose wa.s it made 1 Why, if it was merely as a record of an
event interesting to herself, and not for comparison with an expected
letter from Mr Damodar, should she put in so uninteresting a fact as
that she was sitting under the looking-glass 7 But if it was intended for
this Ia.tter object, it would have been natural to show it to some one at
the time the sending of the telegram was being discussed, had it been
then in existence, and thus to improve the test. I think it probable,
therefore, that the entry was made after, the telegram was sent, though
very likely before the answer was received.
The allusion at the end of Mr. Damodar's letter is to an apparition
of him seen by Mr. E. D. Ewen, of Che.ttisgarh, Central Provinces of
India.. Mr. Ewen, who is a Scotch gentleman of honourable repute,
whose organisation is highly nervous, saw Mr. Damodar (with whom
he was acquainted) in "astral" form, a.s he supposed, on May 23rd,
1884, in London. On his mentioning this at a meeting of our
Society, on May 28th, Mr. Damodar was at once telegraphed to by
Colonel Olcott (Mr. Myers being present) in the following words:
• It is noticeable that the first sentence is written in blue pencil, and the rest
in purple, with the exception of the correctionsin lead pencil. This8Uggeats that
the whole note was not written at the same time.
Digitized by Google
Dealt with in Mr. Hodgson's Rl'1JOl't. 393
.. Olcott to Damodar, Adyar, Madras. Have you visited London lq.telyf
write Myers full details." To this telegram no reply was received, from
which it is a natural inference that Mr. Damodar was unaware of the
vision, though he may have had other reasons for his silence. His
mentioning it in his letter of August 16th proves nothing, of course,
since there had then been more than time to acquaint him by post with
the facts. We are thus left without any evidence to distinguish Mr.
Ewen's experience from a merely subjective hallucination.
Two other visions I have to deal with. The first is an experience
that occurred to Mr. Vsevolod Solovioff, Page of Honour to the Czar,
Ilnd son of the tutor of the late Czar, and a Russian author of high
repute. He describes what occurred as follows :-
.. 1 Octobre, 1884, Paris.
"Ayant reQu une lettre de ma compatriote, Mme. HeUme Blavatsky,
dans laquelle elle m'informait du mauvais «Itat de sa. sante et me priait de
venir 10. voir a Elberfeld, je me auis d«lcide a faire ce voyage. Mais puisque
l'~tat de ma propre sante me forc;ait a. certains m~nagoments, j'ai prefere
m'arreter I\. Bruxellea, que je n'ai jamais vu, pour me repoaer, la chaleur
etallt accablallte.
•• Je auis parti de Paris Ie 24 Aodt. La lelldem1l.in matin, au Gnmd Hotel
de Bruxellea od je m'etaia arrete, j'ai rencontnS Mlle. A. (fille de feu ambas-
Badeur ruase a-et demoiselle d'honneur de l' Imp~ratrice de Rusaie). En
o.pprenant que je me rendais a Elberfeld pour voir Mme. Blavatsky, qu'elle
connait et eatime beaucoup, elle s'eat d6cidee a m'accompagner. NoUB avons
pa8~ la journ~e enaemble, comptallt partir Ie lendelnain par Ie train de
neuf heures dll matin.
"A huit heures, etant deja completement pret a. partir, j'entre chez
Mlle. A. et je la trouve dans un grand embarraa. Toutes ses clefs, qu'ello
a.l'habitude de garder toujours Bur elle dans un petit sac et qu'elle a eu dans
ce sac en 88 couchant, avaient disparu pendant la nuit, quoique la porte de
Sll chambre fut ferm~e aclef. Ainsi toutes ses malles ~tant fenneea, impos-
sible d'emballer lea efrets dont elle venait de se 88rvir. Nous fdmes obliges
de remettre notre depart jusqu'au train d'une heure de 1'00prea midi, et fimeB
venir Ie serrurier pour oumr la plus grande malIe. Lorsqu'elle fut ouverte
toutes les clefs que noUB cherchions se trouverent au fond do 10. malle, aillSl
qll~ la clef de cette malle, attac1tie wmme d'habitllde at'6C les al4fre&. Ayant a.
noUB toute notre mo.tin~e, noUB vouh\mes faire une promenade, mais soudain
je me sentis dans un etat d'~trange faiblesse et en proie a un irr6aistible
besoin de dormir. Je me sllis excus~ aupres de Mlle. A. etme suis retireS dans
ma chanJbre, m'empressant de me mettre au lit. Mais je ne pus m'endormir
et reatais leI yeux fermt!s, lorsque tout a. coup, daus l'~tat de veille, j'ai vu
devant mes yeux fermes toute une aerie de payaagel inconnUB, qui se sont
graves dana rna memoire avec leurs moindrel details. Lorsque cette vision
fut disaip~, je me sentis remis de ma faible88e et me rendis aupres da
Mlle. A., ala.quelle certainement j'ai raconte ce qui venait de se paBBer en
lui dcpeignant les payaagea dans tolll leurs detailll.
"NoUB sommes partill par Ie train d'une heure, et voici qll'apres une
2 C
Digitized by Google
394 Note 011 Certain Phenomena not
demi heure de route Mlle. A. me dit en regardant parlafenetre: 'Tenez, voici
un de ves paysages !' Je l'ai reconnu a !'instant, et jusqu'au soir j'ai revu,
les yeux ouverts, tout ce que Ie matin j'avais vu les yeux fermes. J'etaiB
content d'avoir racontC nl& vision en detail lI. Mlle. A., car elle lJOuvait en
attester la realisation. II faut dire que la route entre Bruxelles at Elberfeld
m'est completement inconnue, car c'ctait la premiere fois de ma vie que je
visitais la Belgique et cette partie de l'AUemagne.
"En arrivant 11. Elberfeld Ie BOir, nous nous BOmllles arrtitCs dans un
hOtel et nous nous hA.tAmes de nous reudre aUI'm de Mme. Blavatsky dans
la maison de M. Gebhard. Le mlhne soir, les membres de la SocieW Thco80-
phique qui entourent Mme. Blavatsky nous ont montre deux superbes
portraits lI. l'huile des Mahatlll&B M. et Koot Houmi. Le portrait de M.
surtout produisit sur nous une impression extraordinaire, et co n'est pas
etonnant qu'en revenant a notre hotel nous en parlions encore et l'aviona
devant nos yeux. C'est aMlle. A. de raconter ce qu'eUe a vu et Bellti
pendant la nuit suivante. Mais voici oe qui m'est arrive:-
"Fatigue par Ie voyage, je donuais paisiblelnentlorsque tout d'un coup je
fus reveille par la sensation d'un aouffie bien cl1&ud et penetrant. J'ouvre les
yeux et dans la faible clarte qui entrait dalls la chambre par los trois fenetres,
je vois devant moi une grande figure d'homme v~tu d'un long vetcmentblanc
et fiot-tant. En meme temps j'ai entendu ou aenti une voix, qui me disait,
je ne puis preciser en quelle langue, bien que je Ie compris parfaitement,
d'allumer la bougie. Je dois dire qu'au lieu de m'effrayer je restais tout a.
fait tranquille, seulement je BentaiB lIlon cx.eur battre avec une force
redoubl6e. J'ai allumd la bougie et en l'allunlant j'ai vu 11. ma montre qu'il
etait deux heures du Ill&tin. La vision ne disparaissait paa. C'dtait un
hOlllme bien vivant qui dtait devant moi. Et j'ai reconnu lI. l'instant meme
en lui Ie bel original du portrait que nous aviona vu Ie soir. II s'assit pres
de moi Bur une cl1&ise, et commen~ 11. me parler. II parla longtemps,
touchant les questiona qui m'intCressent, mais la plua grande partie de cot
entretien ne pent etre rapportee ici car il a'agissait de choaes tout lI. fait
personne11ea. Je puis dire,cependant, qu'entre autres il m'a aunonce que
pour Ie voir d{lus lIOn C0Tp8 /Ut·ral j'Ri dli passer par besucoup de preparations,
et que la demiere IC90n me fut donnce Ie nl&tin meme lors'lue j'ai vu, les yeux
fermes, los paysages que je devais revoir en realiW Ie meme jour. Puia ilme
dit que je poss8de une grande force lll&gDetique en voie de developpement.
Alors je lui demandai ce que je de,'ais faire avec cette force. Mais,.aans
repondre, illiisparut.
" J'ctaia seul, la porte de ma chambre c!tait fennce 11. clef. J'ai cru aune
hallucination et meme je me suia dit a\-oo eft"roi que je commence 11. perdre la
tete. A peine ai-je eu cette idee que j'ai revu lI. la meme place l'hommo
auperbe aux vetements bIanca. II hochait la tete et en souriant me dit :
•Soyez atir que je ne auis pas une hallucination et que votre raison ne VOUB
quitte pas. Blavatsky vous prouvera demain devant tout Ie monde que mil
visite etait ree11e.' Puis il disparut. J'ai conatate AIll& montre qu'il etait
pres de trois heures. J'ai eteint la bougie et je me auis rendonni immooh~tc­
ment d'un profond sommeil.
" Le matin, en arrivant avec Mlle. A. pres de Mme. Blavatsky, la premiel'O
ehose qu'elle nous dit avec son sourire lmigmatique: 'Eh bien! comment
Digitized by Google
Dealt wit!1 in NI'. Hodgson's Rt'pol't. 395
avez-vous p.'l.II88 la nuit 7' 'Trea bien,' lui ai-je repondu, et j'ai ajoute,
'Voua n'avez rien a me dire'?' 'Non,' fit-elle, 'jewa aeulement que Ie
l\-Ialtre a ete chez voua avec un de sea eleves.'
" Le soir du meme jour M. Olcott a trouve dans 8& poche un petit billet,
que touslea tMosophea ont reconnu pour etre de l'ecriture de M., con9u en
cas tenne.: 'Certainement j'etaia la, maia qui peut ouvrir lea yeux a celui
qui ne veut pas voir 1-M.'
"C'etait la reponae a mon incredulite, puiaque toute la joumee je
tA.chaia de me peratmder que ce n'etait qu'une hallucination, ce qui fAchait
Mme. Blavataky.
"Je doia dire qu'a peine re\"enu lI. Paria, ou je auis actuellement, mea
hallucinationa et lea faita etrangea qui m'entouraient a8 sont complctement
<lisaipea. "VSEVOLOD SOLOVIOFF."
This was certainly a striking experience. M. SolovioW tells us tha.t he
tried to persuade himself throughout the following day, till he received
the note, that it was a hallucination, but it was very unlike the
hallucinations that are known to occur to sane and healthy persons.
I do not myself think that there is the same difficulty in supposing it
to have been an unusually vivid dream. It will be observed that no
satisfactory test of an objective origin is aWorded by the occurrences of
the next day. Madame Blavatsky's remark that the Master and one of
his pupils had been with him, was a perfectly safe one. " The Master"
would do either for Koot Hoomi or :M., and the Chela would cover a.
considerable range of other possibilities; while, if Madame Blavatsky had
been wrong in assuming that the question" Vous n'avez rien ame dire7 "
indicated that there had been an experience of some sort, the non-seeing
of the Master could be accounted for by a want of sufficient development
on the part of M. SolovioW; or in whatever way the non-seeing of the
Chela actually was accounted for. The contents of the note found in
Colonel Olcott's pocket added no confirmation, amI the note might
cn.sily, it would seem, have found its way there by natural means with-
out his knowledge. We have not the details of MellIe. A.'s experience,
but I believe it consisted in a dream or vision, more or less similar to M.
Solovioft"s. It is possible that, If we had the details, we might find it
more probable than not that the dreams were telepathically connected :
but thc similarity of circumstances and conditions, of trains of thought
and emotions, before retiring to rest, might easily lead to similar
nocturnal experiences.
Since writing the above I have learnt that, owing to events which
have since occurred, M. Solovioft' no longer regards his experience as
affording any evi(lence of occult ag~ncy.
If M. Solovioft"s experience was a dream, we have no reason fl)J
regArding the following experience of :Mrs. Gebhard, with which 1 will
conclude, as anything but a waking one.
MI'S: Gebharcl, of Elberfeld, well known to one member of the
Committee, writes as follows with regard to an incident which occurred
2 c 2
Digitized by Google
396 Note by Mrs. H. Siaglcick.
at a meeting of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, on
April 7th, 18~4. On that occasion, Madame Blavatsky, who had come
in unexpectedly, and was sitting among the audience, suddenly called to
?tIl'. Mobini, as though slle saw some one. Mr. Mohini joined her in a.
lobby, and appeared also to perceive some one, whom he saluted with
respect. Col~mel Olcott's speech, however, was not interrupted, and
nothing was said to show who it was that Madame Blavataky and Mr.
Mohini thus greeted. At the end of the meeting, they both stated that
they had seen Mahatma M.
" On the 7th of April last, being at a meeting of the Theosophical Society
at Mr. Finch's rooms, Lincoln's Inn, I had a vision, in which I saw the
l'tl'khatma M. At tho moment I was listeningattentivelytoColonelOlcott's open-
ing speech to the Society. I saw standing on my right side, a little in front, a
very tall, majestic-looking pel'BOn, whom I immediately recognised to be the
Mahatma, from a picture I had seen of hun in Mr. Sinnett's poBBeBsiOIl. He
was not clad in white, but it seemed to me to be some dark material with
coloured stripes, which was wound round his form. The vision lasted only a
fow seconds. A. far as I could learn, the only pel'BOns besides myself who
had soen the Mahatma were Colonel Olcott, Mr. Mohini, and, of course,
Madame BlavatBky. "MARY GEBHARD."
This may have been 0. collective hallucination, and as such woul(l
have been very interesting; but we have not the contemporaneous and
independent accounts of Mr. Mohini and Colonel Olcott as to dress,
«c., nor the e~idence as to the time of the appearance, which would be
required to prove this.
We have then, as I said at the beginning, three experiences, one of
them adapted to corroborate the assertion that Mr. Damodar can
project his" astral form," and the other two apparently confirmatory
of the existence of Mahatma M., and in two out of these three cases the
percipient was probably completely awake. It must, howe\'er, be
remembered that one result of the investigations of the Literary Com-
mittee is that merely subjective hallucinations occur to sane and healthy
persons considerably more frequently than is generally supposed; and
secondly, that what makes these experiences available as evidence for
Madame Blavatsky is her previous allegation that Mr. Damodar and
Mahatma M. were liable to appear, while the expectation caused by
this allegation may have operated in producing the hallucinations, or
determining their form.
In any case, though the experiences are interesting and important in
relation to the general im'estigations of the Society-yet in the absence
of other evidence for the existence of M., or for Mr. Damodar's power of
voluntarily appearing; and in the absence also of such evidence in each
instance as we should require, if it stood alone, to distinguish it from a
merely SUbjective experience-they cannot be held to pro\'e any of the
powers claimed for " Adepts" and their discipl~
Digitized by Google
Detaila qf ti,e Ecidelltc l'rfi:rrecl to OIJ Page 207. 397
5. DETAILS OF THE EVIDENCE REFERRED TO ON PAGE 207.
In July, 1879; shortly after he had urgently represented to Madame
BlaYll.tsky the desire of himself and other members of the Theosophical
Society, in London, for independent proof of the existence of
CI Adepts," Mr. C. C. Massey found in the minute book of the Society
a lettel' addressed to him, and purporting to come from one of the
Adept "Brothers"; Madame Blavatsky being then in India. This
discovery was made at the lodgings of a member of the Society (who was
at that time a non-professiona.l medium), and in whose custody the
minute book then was. The book was brought to Mr. Massey by this
medium in connection with the business of the Society. The medium
will be here described as X., and the medium's "control" as Z.*
In May, 1882, Mr. Massey was shown a letter addressed to X. (who
had then ceased to reside in this country), apparently in Madame
Blavatsky's handwriting, dated 28th June, 1879, and contained in
an envelope bearing the l.'8gistered London post-mark, 21st July, 1879.
He took a copy of the first part of the letter, which was as follows :-
My DEAR GOOD FlUEND,-Do you remember what Z. told or rather
promised to me 1 That whenever there is need for it, he will always be
ready to carry any message, leave it either on Massey's table, his pocket, or
BOme other mysterious place 1 Well now there is the most important tlU(t
for such a show of his powers. Please ask him to take the enclosed letter
and put it into M.'s pocket or in BOme other still more mysterious place.
But he mu.H twt know it's Z. Let him think what he likes, but he must not
suspect you had been near him with Z. at your orders. He doesllot distrust
you, but he does Z.
Also if he could treat L. L. with BOme Oriental token of love it would be
right, but none of them must suspect Z. of it, therefore it is more difficult
to make it to do it (6ic) than it would otherwise be were it to be produced at
one of your seances . . . &c.
Mr. Massey was not at that time at liberty to take the otherwise
ob,ious course of communicating on the subject with Madame Blavatsky
or X. (with neither of whom, moreover, was he then in correspondence),
and it was not till some months later-autumn of 1882-that, the
circumstances of the Society §88ming to him to require the disclosure,
he communicated the facts privately to friends in it.
It is noteworthy that a letter written by Madame Blavatsky to Mr.
Massey on July 2nd, 1879, four days after the date of the letter to X.,
seems mainly written in order to say that the London Fellows of the
Theosophical Society are not to have phenomena, and to explain why.
She says in it: " I tell you as a fact that the desires of the London
• The 8uppI'eIlIIion of these names is by requeHt of l\lr. M&MeY. It ill not
material to publisb thom for the present purpose.
Digitized by Google
398 . Details oj tile Eddellce 1'rferrecl to 011 Page 207.
Fellows have been the subject of earnest consult<\tion among our
Brothers. Some have been half inclined to gratify the wish for
phenomena. But it has always ended in the unanimous
conviction that to do this, would only degrade adeptship, and help the
false theories of Spiritualism." Knowledge of the letter found in the
minute book seems therefore to be implicitly denied. Mr. Massey
endeavoured to obtain some explanation of it from Madame Blavatsky,
but without success.
It was pot until May, 1884, that on receiving a letter from Madame
Blavatsky-the first for several years-on another matter, he sent her
a. copy of so much of the letter to X. as he had transcribed, amI
obtained in reply all acknowledgment that she was the author of all
that pll.rt of it which concerned him. The following are extracts f!'Om
her letter:-
Enghien, Friday.
All I have the honour now of telling you is-on my theo80phkal tOO1'd oj
HQ/1Q1I/',-1 That I am the author of butthe first part of the letteryou quote,
i.e. a few hurried lines to X. after receiving the letter ruldreslltl(I to you and
receh'ed by meat Girgaum, Bombay-asking X. to remind Z. of his promise
and convey the letter to you by any meallll provided they u'ere occult.. My
authorship begillll with "~Iy dear good friend "-and endll with-" he does
not distrust you buthe doell Z." What follows after lias 1IelVJr been t!1l'itfell b1)
me, nor have I any knowledge of it, all you may say to the contrary.
Whether the remainder of it ill harmless or not; and whether you are at a
1088 to conceive 11)1Iy it should be forged-all this is flapdoodle for me. I
have not u".itte/~ it and that's all sufficient JOI' nu; whatever it is for you.
'Vho the devil may be "L. L." is immaterial; since the Masters do not
evidently want me to see at the bottom of the trick. It is fi.rgetl--that'll
all I know; as many other things were, and 11\ay be yet-for your special
benefit, as I think. I had for years and entirely lost every remembrance
of this letter and now it comes to me as a flash back with all ita details.
'Vhen Olcott llpoke to me of it I had no clear remembrance of it and
now I have. • . . . . . . . • . . . And now to the point.
What do you find of 110 deceitful and wtpardolluble ill this first part of my
letter, which, as you think, ill really the only one that incriminates me 1 I
may be al80 lacking-in your code of notions of honour-" a lIenBe of the
conmlonellt morality"-and if BO, then all I can lIay, it must be 110 in y..mr
sight. surely not in mine. I hnl'e not, nor have I had, in \\Titing it the
smallest or faintest notion I was thereby det'eirillg 11011, trying to impo:re ufX>It
yO/I, &c., &c. Do you caUll'itllholliing jacts one has no right to enter upon
-deceh'ing 1 The letter forwarded to yuu 1/'(IS genuine, from as genuine a
"Brother" as ever lived; it was received plienomllflaUy by me in the preBence
of two theollOphista who asked me what it was amI whom I told it was none
flf their businell8. Was I dt'ceit'illg them al80 1 I was ordered to have it
delivered into your hands, but was not told how and left to do the best I
• This provillO does not appear in the letter to X.
Digitized by Google
Details of the Bvidellce '·e./m'('({ to on Page 207. 399
knew how. I aake<1 Olcott, how I waa to send it over to you and he said he
did not know; aud it waa he who suggested Z. saying "Cant you send it
over to him aa it came to you and then have him deliver it to M88BeY if it is
80 difficult for you to send it direct 1-1 remember saying to him that it
tvas difficult and that I would anyhow ask Z. to drop it somewhere. I do
not know whether he wlderstood what I really meant; and if he did, he haa
long ago forgotten all about it. But I remember it waa through him that the
idea about Z. came into Illy head. . . . . And would I have tried to
deceive !/ott, at that time, above all 7 You who had entire confidence. in me,
who b..'\d declared aa much in the Theosophist, you whom I waa so proud to
have in the Society, I could have cheated you like a paid mediulll! . • •
to say that in the caae of flute letter I had plotted WlI8CWltsly to deceive you,-
I say it u this which is all illfel''IIal lie-whoever says so ! • • . . III your
caae, Masters had forbidden me to help you ill your dealings with mediums-
to encourage them cren with X., for fear you should never learn to discern
occult from Spiritual phenomena; andthis is why instead of writing to you-
.. Go to X. and you will get a letterfrom a Brother in Scotland through Z."-
I acted aa I have. That I saw nothing in it then, aa I do not see now, of 80
dreadful, is only a proof that I have not received lily education in London
and that our notions of the honourable and the dishonourable did'er. . • •
There are three points which 111ay be specially noted in this letter.
First, the part of the letter to X. acknowledged by Madame Blavatsky
clearly indicates a plan of imposing on Mr. Massey as a manifesta·
tion of the power of the Mahatmas a. phenomenon which she knew not
to be due to any such agency. Secondly, the whole letter to X. as
above quoted suggests a strong suspicion that she intended the
phenomenon to be produced by perfectly natural and normal a.gency.
This suspicion, however, would be most strongly suggested by the part
of the letter which does not relate to ?rlr. Massey. Accordingly,
Madame Blavatsky's method of dealing with the situation in which she
finds herself placed is to acknowledge the authorship of the part of the
letter which she had, apparently, some hope of explaining to Mr.
Massey's satisfaction, while denying the authorship of the latter part.
Her method of dealing with the Blavatsky-Coulomb correspondence is
precisely sinlilar. Thirdly, ller explanation, however ingenious, is not
perfectly consistent, for it is impossible to explain (1) Why she did
not send the " Brother's" letter direct to Mr. Massey by post, unless
she wished to make hinl believe it had reached him by occult means;
(2) Why she made no allusion to it when she wrote to him about
letters and phenomena on July 2nd, 1879, and stated so positively
that there were to be no phenomena, unless she wisqed him to believe
that she had nothing to do with it-that it had not passed through her
..
• It may be obscn'ed, however, that Mr. M:aascy's confidence in Madanle
Blavatsky had not prevented his urgent requirement of proof of the "Adepts"
which should be independent of any such confidence.
Digitized by Google
400 Detai18 of tl,e EvUklwe f'ifel'l'ed to on PltUfJ 207.
hands; and (3) how a " Brother" in Scotland could be so ignorant of
geography, or about Madame Blavatsky's occult a.cquirements, as to
think it desirable to send a letter for Mr. Massey in London round by
Bombay, instead of posting it himself at the nearest posfroffice.
The following further facts may be noted :-(1) That "K. H.," ill
letters which have been seen by Mr. Massey, a.vowed and defended
Madame Blavatsky's authorship of so much of the letter as she herself
afterwards admitted, and similarly denied the p"rts denied by hel·.
(2) That X. absolutely denied to Mr. Massey all knowledge whatever
of Madame Blavatsky's letter, or of having seen the letter enclosed
in it before it was discovered by Mr. Massey in the minute book. (3)
That "K. iI.," in a letter which Mr. Massey has seen, attempts to
reconcile this contradiction by suggesting that X. received the letter in
a mediumistic state of trance or quasi-trance!
CONTENTS 01<' THE FOREGOING REPORT.
Statement and Conclusions of the Committee
Outline of Mr. Hodgson's Investigation and Conclusions ...
Extractll from and Comments upon Blavatsky·Coulomh Letters
The Shrine a .. Conjurer's Box" '"
Untrustworthiness of Mr. Damodar's Evidence
Collapse of Evidence for Mr. Damodar's "Astral" Journeys
Worthlessnetlll of Colonel Olcott's Evidence
Worthlessness of Mr. Mobini M. Chatterjee's Evidence ...
And of the remaining Evidence for Appearances of Mahatmas
Reasons for Distrusting 1rlr. Babajee D. Nath ...
Appearance and Disappearance of Letters accounted for ...
The "Occult World" Phenomena and Weakuess of Mr. Sinnett's Evidence
Mr. A. O. Hume's Evidence
Handwriting of Blavatsky.Coulomb Letters
Circumstances under which certain Documents were receiveti
Mr. }'. G. Netherclift's Opinion on the K. H. Writing
Reasons for attributing K.H. Letters to Madame Blavatsky
Changes in the use of the English d by Madame Blavatsky
Two K. H. Letters attributed to Mr. Damodar
Deception by Mr. Bhavani Shankar
Chela Document signed B. D. S., written by Mr. Babajee D. Nath
}'orged Hartmann Document written by Madame Blavatsky
AuthorshIp of Mahatma M. Writing
Ignorance Displayed by Mahatmas
Koot Hoonti's bad English '"
Chelas incited to Fraud
Possible Motives of Mr. Damodar..•
Colonel Olcott ... .
Summary of the main points involved in the Inquiry
Motives of Madame Blavatsky
Appendices .. ..
Mr. F. G. Netherclift's Report on Blavatsky·Couiomb Documents
Phenomena that have occurred in Europe
Evidence suggestive of Fraud by Madame Blavatsky in 1879
l'AGS
201·207
207·210
211·219
219-226
226-231
231·237
237-23!1
239-U"i
245-248
246-247
248·200
256-273
273-275
276-277
278-281
282-283
283-293
290-291
293·297
297
298
?98-301
301-302
302-304
305-307
308
309-310
311
312-313
313-317
318-380
381·382
3I!3-396
397-400
Digitized by Google
Some Higher Aspects oj Mettmerism: 401
II.
SOME HIGHER ASPECTS OF MESMERISM.
By EDMUND GURNBY A.~D FREDBRIC W. H. MYERS.
Tom ,mIlO" fffW8iIlT'.S 8"1 ffpotlllClJ/HTu il«MT'rOf.
-ExPBoocLBS.
After years of neglect, Mesmerism is once again, though in a tone
less violent and defiant than heretofore, making a very distinct claim
to serious attention. It has not, indeed, passed the stage of having its
existence widely doubted; but those who grant its existence are more
and more impressed with a sense of its importance-not as a mere
isolated group of marvels, but in virtue of its intimate relations with
psychical research in general; and it is with this view of it that we are
ourselves concerned in the present paper. We have already dealt at
some length with the primary thesis of the reality of Mesmerism.* We
have considered adverse theories, and endeavoured to show that, beyond
the recognised effects of attention and inhibition which are broadly
classed under the name of Hypnotism, there is sufficient evidence for a
specific influence whereby certain individuals can originate in certain
others a well·marked group of physical and mental phenomena. The
topics with which we have further to deal are of wider scope, and
stranger complexion. They are three in number, and may be briefly
designated as (1) the mesmeric treatment of disease; (2) silent
" willing" and "willing" at a distance; (3) clairvoyance.
The three classes differ among themselves in their relations both to
science and to mesmerism proper. In the first class-that of "mesmeric
healing "-a very large number of cases fall within (or at any rate not
much beyond) the limits of admitted physiological law; and, so far,
are not (like BOme of the effects discuased in former papers) crucial tests
of a specific mesmeric influence. Some of them may be ascribed to the
recognised "action of the mind on the body "; others may be, at most,
merely "1JP'fIOtic in origin-due, that is, to the profound nervous change
which is now so widely admitted as a true effe..-t of monotonous sensory
stimulation. It is possible, indeed, that in proportion as the student
realises the complexity and profundity of the changes induced, he will
be disinclined to assign rigid limits to the possible methods of inducing
them-and the more so if, mingled with the easily explicable csses, he
• Proceedinf/', Vol. I., p. 251, &0. ; Vol. II., P. 201, &0. ; and p. 289, &0.
Digitized by Google
402 Some Higher Aspects of Mesmerism.
encounters others to which (as before) the theories of imagination and
of hypnotism seem manifestly inappropriate. Yet even of these latter
cases, where mesmeric influence has to be accepted, and orthodox
physiology is so far left behind, some sort of physiological picture of the
events is still conceivable. The same may be said of our 8econd class of
cases, those of silent or distant "willing." For the rapport here
implied may be represented as only a special extension of that
" telepathic" sympathy between two organisms, the doctrine of which
is slowly creeping within the circle of scientific acceptance, and may
almost be said to tremble on the confines of orthodoxy. With our
third class-clairvoyance-it is far otherwise; and this class is to hI.'
doubly distinguished from the others. On the one hand, it carries us
at a bound beyond all conceivable limits of physiological explanation;
while on the other hand it is not primAJacie suggestiTe of any mesmeric
influence at all. Mesmerism, if that is indeed the means by which the
clairvoyant state is induced, is here no more than the gate which intro-
duces us to an unknown world; and the question of th~ method of
induction (hypnotic or mesmeric) sinks, one may say into insignificance,
in comparison with the extraordinary problems presented hy the
condition itself.
We are fully aware of the difficulties which such language suggests,
and of the a.ttitude of contemptuous disregard which it is apt to provoke.
That attitude is, indeed, one which, we think, admits here of special
excuse. For of all subjects Mesmerism is, perhaps, the one that has
suffered most from its own supporters; and he who attempts to form a
judgment of it from its literature finds himself too often wading through
a morass of unstable theory, played over by the ignisJatuUB ofan ill-
trained imagination. Even attempts at more direct study are apt to
lead the inquirer into dismal realms of credulity, ignorance, and im-
posture; while the genuine facts, like other rare vital phenomena,
havc had no particular tendency to spring up among the persons best
fitted to weigh or record them. It is comparatively seldom that a.
competent eye has been rea.dy to note them as they arrived; and en-
thusiasts have been wont to embroil what philosophers have declined to
disentangle. Such a statement is itself a lesson of caution; and in
attempting here a somewhat more accurate treatment, it is ra.ther with
the facts than with their explanation that we shall be concerned. So
far from solving difficulties, our task will be rather to indicate
where they lie, and to bring out their true Dlagnitude. But as regards
the facts themselves, we hope to show that insurmountable as the c\
priori objections to them may seem, and embedded as the record of
them too often is in futile and flighty speculation, the evidence is still
such as no a priori o~iectiollB can suffice to invalidate. Considering
how often primdJacie contradictions in Nature have been a.fterwards
Digitized by Goo
SQme Higlltr ..A..8peCt8 oj Mesmerism. 403
harmonised, it is too late in the day for positive testimony Qf the
quantity and quality which is forthcoming on these matters to suffer a
permanent eclipse; and it is beyond question that the confidence of
denunciation with which that testimony has been swept out of court
has been in inverse ratio to the care with which it has been examined.
As regards the first of our topics-mesmeric treatment of disease-
though it was here that the aim was most popular and the evidence
most abundant, there were special reasons why it never effected any
permanent lodgment in the public mind. The first of these reasons
lies in a single word-anathetics. At the very moment (1846) when
mesmerism was being forced upon the profession by the cases of
painless operations which wore recorded almost weekly, U animal
magnetism," in the Lancet'8 worda, was U superseded" by the inhalation
of ether. U Hurrah! Rejoice!" wrote Mr. Liston in the North
British Review, U mesmerism and its professors have met with a heavy
blow, and great discouragement" ; and although the exultation might
perhaps have been better bestowed on the boon to sufferers than on the
blow to rivals, the fact was beyond a doubt. For whereas curative
mesmerism claims to possess two main powers, the power of rapidly
ant86tMtiaing and the power of gradually 'I1itGli.9ing-aasisting, that is
to say, by some change in circulation or innervation the curative pro-
cesses of Nature-it is pla.in that Ule frequent and familiar sight of
the fi·,.at of these powers is almost a necessary pre-requisite for the
patience needed to await the slow operation of the ~ond. While
Esdailt!' was constantly performing the most terrific operations without
evoking a groan, the agency which he used received such an advertise-
ment as induced people to wait long, and try patiently, in order to
find out all that that agency could do. But the new anathetics-
more rapid and more certain than mesmerism in Europe has ever been
-took from the mesmeriser's hands the very patients on whom he
might have proved his powers at a. stroke. When there ceased to be
any brilliant and unmistakable achievements to which he could point
-when no one any longer begged to try his art for the excision of a
tumour or the removal of a limb-his merely restorative passes, 00
often continued without obvious results for many a weary hour,
seemed as devoid of reassuring potency as the Prophet's prescription,
.. Wash in Jordan and be clean."
Nor are further reaBOnshard to find why mesmeric treatment should
languish, when once the uniqueness cf its claim was gone. It was
tedious to 1he patient, and it was notremunerative to any one else. Not
one, not even Mesmer himself, evermade a fortune by its aid. Nor has
it those characteristics which sometimes make patients secretly cling to
remedies that their medical advisers laugh at. The success of paten~
pills, for instance, depends either on capital or on cathartics. If th.
Digitized by Google
404 . ·Some Higller .A.8pect8 of Me8meri8m.
vendor can paint their name on every rock, in sight of every railway, in
the United States, he may make them of what he pleases. If he cannot
push them thus, he must teach them to make their own way by produc-
ing BO~ manifest effect, though it may not be precisely the effect which
he claims for them. Now, mesmerism would never pay to advertise;
and in a great majority of cases where it is tried on white men, it pro-
duces no effect at all.
So far, then, the advocates of curative mesmerism might fairly com-
plain of bad luck; but there were further sources of weakness in their
own camp.
We have spoken of the quantity of evidence which they brought to
bear; but the reception and the rejection of this evidence have, we
think, been equally uncritical. It seems to have been thought
necessary either to accept every reported case as conclusive of the
justice of the mesmerist's claim, or to refuse to attach the slightest im-
portance to a single one of them. Fairly regarded, the cases seem to
demand most careful distinction. The evidence of the mesmeric effects
on Bensibility, not only in the production of anresthesia but in the relief
of chronic pain, seems prim4/acie overwhelming; and in the same class
we may include the benefit accruing from the production of Bleep in
cnses (such as chorea. and delirium tremens) where narcotics are
unadvisable or useless. But it is far otherwise with the evidence for the
actual curing of disease. It is easy to see beforehand how the testimony
in these two classes is certain to differ. Pain is a. subjective fact, the
attestation of which always has come and always must come from the
patunt, and the value of such lay evidence was as great 40 years ago
as it is now; nor do the facts of sleep, and the power of observing its
beneficial effects, belong more to one generation than another. But the
value that can be attached to the evidence of the e:rpert~ of the past
diminishes, as time goes on, with the advance of diagnosis and treat-
ment; and the impression produced now on a. medical expert, as he
turns over the 13 volumes of the Zoist, might probably be that, of
the cases competently observed at the time, the proportion is small
indeed where the alle~ facts may notbe accounted for, either by a. mis-
taken diagnosis, or at any rate by a substitution of the laissez-faire
system for the previous violent treatment by blistering, purging, and
bleeding. Similar cures, he would say, are effected now without mes-
merism and without medicine. Moreover, the mesmeric cases, both at
home and abroad, are recorded-though often fairly cnough for the
populareye-with an exasperating lack of technical detail; and the area.
from which confident conclusions can be drawn is thus much restricted.
It is disappointing, for instance, to have to pass over case after case of
extremely rapid healing of violently inflamed knees, just because the
reporter of them has neglected to state whether the limb had been
Digitized by Google
&me Higher A8pccts cif MC8meJ·i811l. 405
previously kept quiet, and so leaves it open to suppose that it had not,
and that simple rest was the cause of the cure. Then the ipsisnma verba
of the patient are given with rather too serious an air. However
conscientiously a lady may have "taken her .£25 worth of Godbald's
balsam," we find it hard to believe that she ha.bitually "brought up
more nourishment than she swallowed"; "leprosy" is not likely to be
produced by drinking cold ~ter while hot; and" having to walk with
two sticks" should not be too often a.ccepted as definitely diagnostic of
rheumatism. It is only fair, however, to say that the circumstances
were such as to make certain defects of description almost unavoidable.
Cases which should have been among the best were those which doctors
had despaired of, and where naturally no professional opinion was taken
immediately before the new treatment began. Such cases were con-
tributed to mesmeric records either by the successful CI magnetisers,"
who, however honest and benevolent, were not sufficiently alive to the
importance of cross-examination; or by the patients themselves, whose
style sometimes did more honour to their hearts than to their heads.
But if unfortunate phrases are sometimes used, this is a danger from
which few are exempt when in contn.ct with facts which they know to be
genuine, but which they cannot understand; and where there is 0. back-
bone of strong cases, to decide the more doubtful ones always against
the witness would clearly be quite unfair.
The canons of evidence which may reasonably be applied to thil'l
class of phenomena are such as even laymen may venture to indicate :-
(1.) The case should be reported throughout by a medical man; or,
at the very least, there should be a medical man's diagnosis and
prognosis of the patient's malady before mesmerism is resorted to, and
satisfactory evidence of the restoration to health.
(2.) The case should be reported, as nearly as may be, at the tirol',
and publicly, so that objectioM may be taken to it before the circum-
stances are forgotten.
(3.) The case must be one in which no other form of medical treat-
ment has been concurrently employed.
(4.) The recovery should be such as cannot reasonably be attributec:l
to the vis medicatri:l: naturre.
(5.) The influence of imagination should be, as far as possible,
excluded. This can sometimes be done with completeness: as when the
passes are made upon a. person blind, asleep, delirious, comatose, or
demented; or upon an infant or brute beast; or even 011 a person who
has never heard of mesmerism, and pays no attention to what is being
done. It should be noted, however, that the exclusion is not one which
the logic of the case rigorously demands. Imagination is an ingredient
which, though it does not figure in prescriptions, few practitioners would
care to see expunged from their list of remedies; and we may grant
Digitized by Google
406 Some Higller .Aspects Q/ Mesmerism.
that it has often materially assisted mesmerism, just as it has materially
assisted amulets, bread-pills, and the Pharmacopreia itself. But if the
heneficial effects, in cases where the patient knew that mesmerism was
being employed, are all to be ascribed to imagination, then mesmerism
may, at least, claim the power of evoking the imagination to a degree
and in a manner in which nothing else has ever evoked it, from
Holloway's ointment to fragments of the True Cross.
Now, bearing the above canons in mind, and making every allowance
for exaggeration and inaccuracy, we do seem to find a residue of cases
where the evidence of a specific in1luence is hard to controvert, and, at
any rate, never ltas been controverted in a serious manner. Of this
residue we desire to be nothing more than remembrancers. 'Ve are
far, indeed, from the presumption of deciding where doctors disagree,
or rushing in where surgeons fear to tread. Weare not going to say
a single word which either arrogates medical knowledge to ourr,elves,
or reflects in the slightest degree on orthodox medical practice. We
shall err, if we err at all, by an even exaggerated deference to the
dicta of the Faculty. It is true, we know enough of the history of
medicine to recall instances, not a few, where novel remedies have run
away with one and another sane practitioner, whom luck and en-
thusiasm have enabled to report a list of cures that have somehow
never got confirmed by subsequent experience. But the group of
the "mesmerists," here and on the Continent, was too large, and
their evidence too concordant, to be easily dismissed on such analogies
as this. And it does not seem rash to assert that, when a number
of experienced physicians and surgeons agree in maintaining that in
certain cases they have found a certain method of treatment effective,
we are primd facie bound to attend to them-yes, even though a.
still larger number of physicians and surgeons should denounce the
first set as fools and liars, on the ground that they themselves have
not tried the treatment in question, and are certain that if they had
tried ~t they would have found it absolutely inert. So if some medical
controversialist shall roundly charge us with impudent ignorance for
holding that, among some thousands of inconJlusive cases, there may
he here and there a conclusive one, we shall console ourselves with
the re1lection that we are martyrs to our faith in the honour and
veracity of valious eminent members of his own profession.
'"e confess, for instance, that we should ·...ery much like to elicit
some serious criticism on the medical careers both of Mr. Braid and
of Dr. Esdaile. The amount of their success seems to be just one of
those facts as to which a kind of "collspiracy of silellce " has really
existed; and this is the stranger in that Braid's name, as a scientific
discoverer, is now widely celebrated; while Esdaile had the uniquo
good fortune to secure the favour of the Governor-Gt'neral of India., to
Some Dig/ler Aspectll of Mesmerism. 407
control a. large Government hospital, and to have his reports officia.lly
published. It is true that the tide of neglect is beginning to turn;
but among living Englishmen, capable of appreciating the significance
of what these men did, how many could, at this moment, stand an
examination in the couple of small and unpretending volumes which
record their work 7 It may, perhaps, be said in reply that Braid was a
l~ypnotist, who disowned mesmerism; and that, though Esdaile was a
professed mesmerist, yet, as his favourite method of treatment was
gentle rubbing, his cases fell well within the hypnotic theory, and are
valueless in support of mesmerism proper. This excuse for neglecting
them, whatever it may be worth, could hardly be made by those-the
majority, we think, of the professed opponents of mesmerism even
in our day-who have never distinguished hypnotic and mesmeric
phenomena, but haye swept all alike under a common condemnation.
But the objection is still worth considering, inasmuch as it suggests
what is really an important fact-that, next to ether and chloroform,
Braid's great discovery must rank as the chief cause of the collapse of
the mesmeric crusade. Having ascertained the genuineness of that
abnormal state into which sensitive "subjects" can be thrown by a
strained fixation of their eyes, and having rightly found the immediate
cause of that state in a profound and peculiar nervous change, Braid
had a ready explanation for all his cures. His" profound nervous
change" was wide and vague enough to cover anything. And
when, in addition to the physical peculiarities of the state, such as
insensibility and rigidity, it is observed that the mental condition of
hypnotised "subjects" is often one of marked mono-ideism-of strong
and one-sided attention-then many familiar experiences come in to
the assistance of the hypnotic theory. "The influence of mind on
body " is a medical common-place; and if there is a state in which the
mind is abnormally concentrated on the bodily condition, it is in that
state that this influence is likely to be at its maximum of intensity. In
this way the influmce of attention and expectation, which Braid
himself most carefully distinguished from the curative influence of the
purely nervous change, came after his time to bE an accepted part, and,
indeed, chief feature, of the anti-mesmeric doctrine.
But while the point of Braid's work-the establishment of a unique
nervous change-was thus, to a great extent, concealed and confused, a
piece of simple fact, which might well have suggested a truer interpre-
tation of his results, passed unnoticed and unrecorded; to wit, that
those results were not and could not be repeated, even by those who
most admired them. The power of fixation of the eye to initiate peculiar
physical and mental phenomena did not perish with Braid, and the
means of inducing the hypnotic state have even been considerably
extended since his death j but his series of cures-which on the hypnotic
408 Some HigllCl' .A..8pt'CtlJ of Me~mlC";8m.
theory, ought to have Leen equalled by any practitioner who chose to
take the minimum of pains for the maximum of effect-has not had
ha.lf-a.-dozen rivals in the last 40 years. Even apart from the ulterior
medica.l effects, his power of producing what he calls the II nervous
sleep" was altogether exceptional; and the number and certainty of his
successes must; be astounding to all who have had-what he himself
seems to have lacked-the opportunity for comparing the results which
he obtained by what he im8.z:,<>ined to be purely hypnotic II means" with
those of others. And inasmuch as he was careful to avoicl a dogmatic
denial of thc possibility of specific II mesmeric" power, his memory will
not be wronged by suggestion that, if that power be a reality, he must
unknowingly have possessed a considerable share ofit. We have more
than once pointed out how little the significance of the rarity of strong
operative power has been realised, and how feeble have been the
attempts to account, by such considerations as the temperature and
moisture of the hand, for the enormously different degrees in which
different persons can produce and control tim characteristic hypnotic
effects. Ancl this argument for the reality of mesmerism will only be
reinforced and extended if the further phenomena of healing be taken
into account. For so far as the evidence goes, it seems that persons of
strong curative power are exceptional, even among those in whom the
power of sending persons into the II magnetic" sleep is strongly
developed.
The case of Dr. Esdaile is, at first sight, different; inasmuch as he
employed many assistants, and found that, with care, they were all
able to produce the trance·condition in almost any Hindoo who pre-
sented himself. Still, the proof of the exceptional susceptibility of the
Indian temperament to hypnotic manipulation cannot possibly affect
either the fact that in England similar results can be produced by only
&. small minority of persons, or the argument from that fact-that these
exceptional persons possess an exceptional power. And fortunately in
Esdaile's case such arguments can well be spared; for the proofs which
his pages supply, of the reality of the specific influence, are of a far
more direct !Iond crucial kind. We may quote a single instance.
It may be remembered that in a former paper we recounted some
experiments of our own, tending to show that inanimate objects could
be imbued with the operator's influence in such a manner as to be after-
wards detected by a sensitive II subject." * Such a phenomenon is,
indeed, in England, among the rarest that mesmerism presents; and
the attribution to the" magnetisation of an object" of effects which a
• Proceeding', Vol. I., p. 261. The alternative explanation would be
hyperreetbeaia of (we tbink we may say) a quite unexampled degree, in a
person who gave no otber sign of any abnormalities of sensation whatever.
Digitized by Google
Some Hight'l" Aspects oj Mesmerism. 409
few precise experiments would at once show to be due to the imagina-
tion of the person who handles it, is one of the commonest of mesmeric
fallacies. We have seen the fingers of a "subject" suddenly cramped
at the touch of a" magnetised" penny, so that he was unable to drop it
even when offered five pounds to do so; we have seen his whole body
convulsed when his finger was dipped into 0. glass of "magnetised"
water; but the cramp and convulsions were quite equally violent when
the previous " magnetisation " was a fact having no existence except in
his own imagination. With the more sensitive Hindoos, however, the
genuine phenomenon appears to have been more readily obtained, and
Esdaile gives the following account of his application of it to therapeutic
purposes:-
From multiplied experiments in six different hospitals, I should as 800n
doubt the power of fresh water to quench thirst 1\8 that of mesmerised water to
induce sleep, in persons who have already felt the mesmeric influence. Here
also it will be said thatsmell and taste, suggestion and imagination, and no ex-
traneous influence, produced the result. I repeat that the only experiments
on which I rely were first trial; they were made, at intervals of months
and years, in six different hospitals, and my test experiments were thus
conducted: the mesmerised water was medicated with tincture of rhubarb,
tincture of cardamoms, aromatic spirit of ammonia, &c., and given to the
patients at their usual time of taking physic, so that it WI\8 impoBBible to
excite suspicion or expectation of anything unusual in them. The result
WI\8 that a very large proportion of susceptible subjects were so profoundly
entranced on the first occasion that they might have been operated on with-
out pain ; and their unhealthy sores were frequently burned with undiluted
nitric acid without their feeling it, when sleeping from the effects of mesmer-
ised water. What more effectual precautions could be taken by those who
deny any external influence, I cannot in my simplicity imagine.
And here a comment suggests itJ;el£ for wInch we would specially
bespeak attention. Why is Esdaile's word to be taken when he tells
us that he produced anresthesia by hypnotic passes, and not when he
tells us that he produced anresthesia by " mesmerised water" 1* Among
the more instructed portion of the medical world, hypnotic a'Tl€fstheBia
has come, in recent years, to be an accepted fact. As yet it may be
only a few who realise the extent to which the phenomenon can be
carried; but the doctrine is finding its way into first-class medical
handbooks; and its scientific future is indicated by that clearest sign,
that those on whose minrls it has dawned mention it with a fine air of
having known about it all along, and ev('n make use of its sober and
There is, however, another possible hypothesis which must not be lost
flight of,-namely, that the effect, though a real one, was not due to the water,
but to the idea in Esdaile's own mind. The case would then be very simila.r to
some of the instances given up,low, of the production of the trance by the exercise
of will
2 D
Digitized by Goo
410 Some Higher .AspectB of J£eBml'l"iBn1.
orthodox character to point a moral against the heretical ,-agaries of
"mesmerism." Now, to ac<:ept the doctrine of hypnotic anresthesia is
almost synonymous with accepting Esdaile as one of the ablest and
most trustworthy of modem scientific discoverers: no doctrine coul<l
well be more intimately associated with the name of a single man.
Nor do instructed physicians shrink from acknowledging this: among
a skilled minority, the fame of Esdaile now ranks almost on a par with
that ot Braid· But is it not a little curious that the laudatory notiCf'.8,
in which he is beginning to figure as one of the great founders of
hypnotic science, contain no hint of his strenuous and persistent
advocacy of mesmerism, still less of the experiments by which he
justified the faith that was in him 1 Writers who now, for the sake of
discrediting mesmerism, find it convenient to -take their stand on hyp1W-
tum as an old-established science, with Esdaile for its comer-stone.
should at least remember (1) that he was the wamlest champion of the
cause which they attack; (2) that his "hypnotic" and his " mesmeric ,.
work stand exactly on a par as regards eyidence; (3) that for long
years even his" hypnotic" work received from the" scientific world"
nothing but incredulity and scorn. Is it not, perhaps, easier to suppose
that this same scientific world may still faU short of infallibility, than
that there were ttvO Esdailes, performing experiments in the same place
at the same time, one an investigator of extraordinary vigour and skill,
the other a credulous dupe, if not a wilful impostor 1
It must, however, be admitted that Esdaile's powers as a theorist and
expositor were by no means on a par with his courage and practical
sagacity; and it is not clear that he ever himself distinguished the
instances which, like those above quoted, are distinct e\-idences of
mesmerism, from the ordinary run of his cases, where anresthesia was
produced by monotonous rubbings and passes. The phenomena are all
mixed up together in his ra~dom talk about the out-flowing of a
" nervous fluid," which he seems to have regarded as always on tap in
any healthy human body. Turning from him to his contemporaries in
England, and especially to Dr. Elliotson, we find a similar want of dis-
crimination. The pages of the Zoist are permeated by the doctrine that
the mesmeric power is one which almost &11 possess in a very appreciable
degree; and it is probable that theviolent collision of this doctrine with
men's pre-conceptions and experiences did not a little to cast the reality
of the power into discredit. The magnitude of the claim made could not
butbe contrasted with the smallness of the areawith in which it was even
pretended to be justified. In mesmeric hospitals it was not the patients
but the healers who were lacking; and though the militant party might
maintain that this was only because so fe,,' persons seriously attempted
• We refer specially to Dr. Bastian's admirably judicious articles
.. Braidiam" and" llesmemm," in Quain's Dictionary oj Medicille.
Digitized by Google
411
the art, yet it is certain tha.t the a.ttempt must have been made again
and again in a small way, by persons who would only too gladly have
gone on, had they detected the slightest symptoms of success.* And
the cause would have had a sounder basis had this been seen, and its
moral acknowledged.
The mention of Dr. ElliotBOn suggests a further drawback with
which the mesmeric cause in England had to contend in its most
critical hour. The bitter and scornful tone which that fiery champion
of strange discoveries adopted seems to us to have been as ill-adapted
as any tone could be to ensure their reception. He should surely have
remembered that any considerable disturbance of traditional views is
almost necessarily received at first with resentment; and that although
the man who is merely advertising his own merits may often gain by a
little assumption, the disinterested advocate of new truths will find it
essential to be almost apologetically urbane. But, nevertheless,
though Dr. Elliotson's tone was overbearing, he did most vigorously
marshal fact and argument to back it up; whereas his opponents,
whose rejoinders (thanks to the almost arrogant candour of the Zoist)
can be traced with ease through the medical journals of the time,
have certainly not produced counter-statements of a sufficiently
definite kind to dissolve away the nucleus of solid evidence to which
we have above referred. The supposed exposure of the Okeys by Mr.
'Vakley is not now worth discussion; on the Lancet', own showing
it was one of the hastiest aud clumsiest of all the hasty and clumsy
attempts which have been made to disprove new phenomena by men
who have never condescended to comprehend them. And the rest of the
solid opposition resolves itself into an attempt (which on our principle
of not attempting to decide on any disputed medical point, we may
readily count as SUCCf:SSful) to show that in some of the minor cases
recorded in the Zoist the conditions which we have above numbered
as third and fourth were not fulfilled-that is to say, that the patient's
cure may have been owing to other remedies, or to the operation of
• Such incidents as the following-mi"u8 its happy termination-must have
occurred often enough during the last forty years. One of the present writers,
havin, discovered that a boy with a bad poisoued finger was daily visiting an
amateur mellmerist to have the pain removed, undertook the office of healer,
and invited the patient to come to his room at the usual time. Every means was
taken to impress him with a belief in the superior power and experience of his
new operator; and a considerable time was laboriously spent in making the
orthodox passes over the inflamed member. Its owner's politeness, and his
evident struggle to believe that he felt some dift'erenee, were a touching
spectacle. But the pain was too real for the fiction to be kept up, or the sufferer
kept waiting; and half-a·minute of light passes (without contact of any !!Ort)
from his usual operator sent him away smiling, and safe from hie enemy for nt
least twelve hours to come.
2 D 2
Digitized by Google
412 Some Higher Aspects oj Mesmt>l,;sm.
nature. These substantive objections cover a small part indeed of the
field; but, on the other hand, we find plenty of llUlguage of a kind
which reminds us that lUJat mnst sometimes rank as a very low form of
energy. We give a few samples below.*
Did space permit, it would be easy to multiply indefinitely such
inelegant extracts, and to show that, however successful the onslaught
on mesmerism in England may have been, there is little in its literature
which can be appealed to with satisfaction by anti-mesmerists of a calmer
• "The mesmero·mania," says one doctor in the Medico-Chil'urgical Rcvieu',
.. has nearly dwindled in the metropolis into anile fatuity; bnt lingem in BOme
of the provinces with the gobemonchee and chaw-bacons, who, after gulping
down a ponnd of fat pork, wonld, with well-greased gullets, swallow down such
a lot of mesmeric mummery as would choke an alligator... " We regard the
abettom of mesmerism as quacks and impostom," says the La1ltJd; "they :lught
to be hooted ont of professional society." The "subject," or, as Mr. Wakley
more graphically puts it, "the patient, alias the victim, alias the particeps
t:l'imiltu," is almost as bad as the operator; and even the man who reads about
snch pel-iormances h " a leper (aie) who mnst be taken with his spots." The
only doubt seems to be whether we may exult, with the 88Jiguine Lancet, in the
conviction that" the brood of mesmerism must in no long time utterly destroy
their own loathsome dam"; or must tremble with the gentler spirit of Dr.
Riadore, before the sofUy-fanning manipulator, as
.. Our natioo·. ttrrflf', and her bkIod, 1COUf'(Jt•..
We do not, however, altogether fail to find the utterances of a more
practical spirit and a calmer sceptism. One surgeon demands that Government
should "interfere most imperiously," and adds,with a trne tactical instinct, "I
would have the legislative measure without waiting for any investigation." Anti
an eminent snrgeon remarks, "If each patient were to testify to the truth of his
statement, I should still remain incredulous. I know hnman kind too well to be
deceived." Testimony, indeed, mnst be worse than snperftuousto one fore-armed
with BO complete an assnrance of human unreliability. But some practitioners
appear to have had access to an intuitive knowledge of a yet higher type. "The
strong blasts from the Terrible One," says the Apothecary of the Middlesex
Hospital, "which have swept over my BOllI, as I have read, seen, and heard
related the varied deceptions which have been set forth by the disciples of mes-
merism, have fully convinced me that it is an infernal system, whose coming 6
after the working of Satan," &c., &c., and "closely allied to that terrific and
unpardonable sin-blasphemy against the Holy Ghost...
We may seem here to have reached a kind of climax. But there is yet one
remark which deserves citation, as a warning of the perilous confnsion into
which the mind of a professed healer may fall, in the desperate effort to save
anwur-proprt: and mate an antagonist. Dr. --, objecting before the Medico-
Chirurgical Society to the confirmation of some minlltes which recorded that.
a certain paper had been read-which paper contained an allURion to an
operation performed under mesmeric anresthesia-contended that, even if this
lI.CCOunt were trne, "the fact was unworthy of their consideration; because
pain is a wise provision of natnre, and patients ought to suffer pain while
the surgeon ia operating; they are all the better for it, aud recover better,'"
Unluckily for himself, Dr. -- ga"e utterance to thill dogma on the very eve of
the discovery of chloroform.
Digitized by Google
Some Higher .A8pect8 of .LlIc8meri8m. 413
age;, 'Ve think, indeed, that any unbiassed person who is at the pains
to study the controversy in detail will feel that, whatever might hav"
been the effect of better strategy on the other side, and however
popular, uncritical, and old-fashioned much of the n..esmeric testimony
may now look, Bertrand, Petetin, and Elliotson were, at any rate, left
in possession of the field; and that the prim4jacie case is still in favout·
of those who maintain that our sanative armoury has been enriched by
an agent of singular, though uncertain and limited, power. And if it he
~nly fitting that the vigour of the scrutiny should be jealously propor-
tioned to the strangeness of the facts, we still fail to see why the
researches into mesmerism, which the general progress of science must
undoubtedly extend and renew, should be vulgarised on any side by the
slightest taint of acridity or scorn. In this problem, as in many others
which concern life, it is possible that the final solution may not yet
have been surmised by anybody; but there is no reason why all parties
should not cordially unite in seeking it.
It would be impossible within the limits of this paper to cite
verbatim 0. sufficient number of cases to give any fair idea of a class of
evidence whose force must of necessity be cumulative. If only a few
examples be considered, however extreme the condition, and however
rapid the improvement, it might be maintained as conceivable that
nature had come to the rescue at that precise moment. The impressive
points are (1) the strong similarity of cases coming from so many
independent quarters, and (2) the perpetually recurring concomitance
of amendment with the first application of the treatment, of relapse
with its casual intermittence, and of steady recovery with its regular
employment. The concomitance is far too marked to admit of being
referred -like the list of cures which have, from time to time, obtained
for a spurious remedy so~~ amount of professional vogue-to luck, to
rest, or to mal-observation. A careful collation of testimony indicates
pretty distinctly the sort of maladies in which there was found to be
an appreciable prospect of success. First, in simplicity, though not in
number, come the cases where the benefit is due to the production of
sleep-whether the benefit takes the negative form of anresthesia
during an operation, or the positive one of restoration and revival.
Here, if we could forget the general argument for mesmerism, drawn
from the rarity of the power to produce the effects, the hypnotic
bypothesis has most to be said for it. The second class of cases includes
the relief and removal of pain of all sorts-whether the results of
accident, as sprains or burns, or such morbid affections as tooth-ache,
rheumatism, ani lum!Jn.go. Here, again, the hypnotist would probahly
refuse to recognise any special argument for the "mesmeric" influence.
In cases where both pain and treatment are restrictedly local, he
might represent the relief as an inhibitory effect, induced by the gentlo
Digitized by Goo
414 Bome Hiollel' Aspect8 qf Ne8mtJi8m.
cutaneous stimulation; seeing that such stimulation is capable of
throwing muscles into violent spasms, he might conceive it as equ9.lly
capable of influencing the sensory centres. Even so, "'e might remind
him that the relief of pain without loss of sensation is 0. very different
thing from the production of insensibility, which is the common result
of hypnotic manipulations. But it would be more difficult to describe
as purely hypnotic phenomena, cases of relief in deeply-seated affections,
where the treatment was applied neither at the seat of the pain, nor in
such a way as to produce the genernl hypnotic condition. And the
difficulty is s~ill further increased in many of the cases of nervous
disturbance which form the third great class. That class includes
neuralgia, chorea, hysteria, some paralyses, perhaps epilepsy, and chronic
nervous exhaustion in its many perplexing and distressing forms.
Experience seems to show that instability of nervous condition is itself
a sign of mesmeric susceptibility, the susceptibility ill many recorded
cascs ceasing with recovery; and it is a satisfaction to think that in
this way the weak and hysterical may at any rate reap some benefit
from their peculiarities. Now here, so far from necessary was it that
the patient should be "hypnotised" by the process adopted, that a.
slight drowsiness was sometimes the utmost of which he or ahe was
conscious, 'While on other occasions even this was absent; and Braid's
theory of a sudden and profound nervous change as the source of the
curative effects-a convenient one as long as insensibility, automatic
obedience, the transition to coma, and the other striking features of
11ypnotism, are present to bear wi~ness to its reality-ceases to be
plausible when the effect perceptible at the time is no more than is
induced in scores of instances every day by the sound of the sea, or the
voice of the preacher.
Still, however genuine, mesmerism is neither a panacea, nor (in
the medical sense) a specific; while even on the most enthusiastic view
of its chances with the best-suited cases, the difficulty would remain of
finding any considerable number of reliable operators. But there seems
at any rate no objection to making the search for these as wide as
possible. The idea .of danget' from the process is supported only in
cases where it has been most crudely and ignorantly applied. Ranked
on a par with nursing operations, which require sense and care, hut.
not talent or education, and performed under due professional superin-
tendence, we think that it need give rise to no fear or hesitation what-
ever. Eamestly, however, as we desire to see the experiment widely and
systematically made, we cannot pretend to pre-judge the issue. As far
a, the English race is concerned it may well be that even Dr. Bastian's
temperate forecast is over-sanguine; and that, beyond sporadic successes..
the curative effect isnot destined to rank as more than one among the
various departments of a more general scientific problem. But on that.
Digitized by Google
Some Higllt1· A.8peet8 of Me8mel'i8m. 415
ground alone it is entitled to 0. place in any discussion, however cursory,
of mesmeric phenomena.
We now pass to our second main topic j the mesmeric effects which
the "subject" exhibits without any preliminary affection either of his
senses or of his ideas j as when the mesmerist, though in the company of
the "subject," gives no sign or hint of his intention to exercise his
power j or when the two are separated, either by a mel'e wall, or by
the interval of a few streett!, or by a longer distance. The effects in
question embrace both (1) the definite indu~tion of the mesmeric state,
and (2) the compulsory performance by the "subject," while in that
state, of some act "willed " by his con~roller. It may be observed, by
the way, that if we examine the question as to the effica.cy of the will
in cases of ordinary mesmerisation, we find a certain conflict of
testimony. Some operators have noted that their passes were in-
effectual unless accompaniedby distinct intention and volition. The Rev.
C. H. Townshend made this observation in an experiment with the cele-
brated naturalist, Agassiz, whom he was mesmerising while himself more
or less distracted by the non-arrival of some expected letters. "Although
I was at the time engaged in the mesmeric processes to all outward
appearances as actively as usual, my patient called out to me constantly
and coincidentally with the remission of my thought, 'You influence
me no longer j you are not exerting yourself.''' And Dr. Esdaile gives
the same account even of the very definite manipulations of his Hindoo
assistants, where, if anywhere, the effects might have been naturally
attributed to a purely physical influence. Elliotson, on the other hand,
asserts that his owh manipulations were often successful, however
mechanically and inattentively carried out j Bertrand (Du Magnetiame
A?&imal, p. 241) makes a similar remark j and their view certainly
seems the most natural one in respect of all cases of hypnotisation
where there is no reason to suppose any specific influence to be at work.
In other cases, it would be a very possible al!sumption that the state of
nervous activity which admits of influencing another nervous system is
one that normally corresponds to a sense of determined effort j and
this element, of course, assumes unique prominence in the "willing"
cases which we are now to consider.
Our first instance shall be from Esdaile (Natural and Nesmeric
Clairvoyance, pp. 227-8.)
I had been looking for a blind man upon whom to test the imagination
theory, and one at last presented himself. I placed him on a stool without
saying a word to him, and entranced him in ten minutes without touching
him. This man beeam8 so susceptible that, by making him the object of my
attention, I could entrance him in whatever occupation he was engaged, and
at any distance within the hospital enclosure. • • • My fir" attempt to
Digitized by Google
416 Some Higher .A.Rptcts oj N{'smt1·~In.
influence the blind man was made by gazing at him silently over a wall.
willIe he was engaged in the act of eating his solitary dinner, at a distance of
twenty yards. Be gradually ceased to eat, and in a quarter of an hour was
profoundly entranced and cataleptic. This was repeated at the most
untimely hours, when be could not pOBBibly know of my being in his
neighbourhood, and always with like results.
With this case we might compare Reichenbach's account of
repeatedly waking a somnambulist by the mere exercise of will (Der
Semitiw Mm8c'~, Vol. II., pp. 665-6); and another similar instance in
the Report of the Committee of the French Royal Academy of Medi.cine,
published in 1831. This Committee stated that they could not doubt
the reality of the effect produced on one of their subjects by an
inHuence exercised II without his knowledge and at a certain distance
from him." But the instances which they report are less striking
than the following. In the Eoiat for April, 1849, Mr. Adams, a
surgeon of Lymington (writing some four months after the incidents
occurred), describes how a medical student, a guest in his own
house, twice succeeded in mesmerising the man-servant of a common
friend at a distance of nearly 20 miles, the time when the attempt
was to be made having in each case been privately arranged with
the man's master. On the first occasion, the unwitting II subject "
fell at the time fixed, 7.30 p.m., into a state of profound coma not at
all resembling natural sleep, from which he was with difficulty aroused.
He said that " before he fell asleep he had lost the use of his legs ; he
had endeavoured to kick the cat away and could not do so." On the
second occasion a similar fit was induced at 9.30 in the morning, while
he was in the .act of walking across 0. meadow to feed the pigs.
As regards the further class of cases, wherf' a definite action or
course of action is producfld by silent or distant control, the first thing
to remark is that many phenomena are popularly referredto this category
which have not the slightest claim to a place in it. There is a popular
idea that such cases are not rare, and depend merely on strength of will ;
but no reliance whatever can be placed on the alleged instances. Science
has often exposed-and will probably have often to expose again-the
fallacy which at.tributes the ordinary successes in the II willing-game" to
anything mOl'e than an unconscious reading of lllight muscular hints.*
• Even in the II willing·game," however, as we have more than once pointed
out, exceptional cases occur by which this theory of unconscious guidance appellnl
to be somewhat severely strained. For instance, in one case that has come to
our knowledge, tbe blind·folded .. percipients" who were willed to do the most
unlikely things, QII lOon as they were lightly touched by the" agents,"" would
suddenly dart off towards the object of the' willing,' passing round the "arious
articles of furniture as if seeing them; often 80 rapidly that we (the agentll) could
not keep up with them, and 80 detachillg them8elves from our touch. They
l'tated that they had no' idea of what they were doing, but jelt, as it !!'ere, a
Digitized by Google
Some Higher '&8ptCt8 01 Me8merism. 417
Again, we have probably all of us heard someone claim to have made
someone else look round, in church or theatre, by fixing an intent gaze
on him; but such cases must clearly be reckoned as mere illusions
of post hoc propter hoc, of success('s noted and failures forgotten.
Equally fallacious are most of the cases that are claimed as distinctively
"mesmeric." The common platform exhibition, where a profession is
made of "willing" a particular person to attend, and he rushes into
the room at the appointed moment, is not due to any influence then and
there exercised, but is the effect of the command or threat impressed on
his mind when in its wax-like condition of trance on a previous evening.
Nor, as a rule, do the cases where"subjects" are said to be drawn by their
controller from house to house, or even to a distant towll, prove any
specific power of his will, or anything beyond the general influence
and attraction whi;:h he has established, and which is liable every now
and then to recrudesce in his absence, and to manifest itself in this
startling form.
Very much rarer are the really crucial cases, where the intended
effect-theorigination or inhibition of motor-impulses-is brought about
at the moment by a delibt'rate exercise of volition; but for a certain
number of them the evidence is such as it would be absurd in us-who
have ourselves witnessed the phenomena-to reject. Several sets of
experiments have been recorded in our Proceedings whereby the
.. subject's" power of response to a question was shown to be at the
mercy of the unexpressed will of his controller-that will being directed,
during a long series of trials, in accordance with an arbitrary list of ye8e8
and noes drawn up by ourselves.* One series of trials conducted by Pro-
fessOI' Barrett, gave 43 successes without a single failure. In the
last six of these trials, the mesmerist, who was a complete stranger to the
" subject," was at a distance of seventeen feet from him, outside a door,
through a narrow chink in which he received from Professor Barrett one
or othel' of two cards, containing respectively the words yes and 110. The
question, "Do you hear me 7" was every time addressed to the " sub-
blind force compelling them to M'taill tkfillite actiOIlB." Now, the interesting point
of this case is that some lpBCific injlutmce seems really to have l..oeen exerted; the
percipients being considerably exhausted by two or three minute!! of the perfor-
mance, which also " gave them a queer ~garl look afterwards." The moral,
from a hygienic point of view, is the very one which we are persistently urging
from a ecientific point of view-namely, that the "willing-game" should be
played in Borne form which involvu ,uitAer contact nDr 1110t·tI1lUmt. I,et the
co willer" concentrate his thoughts on Borne object (card, name, number, scene,
taste, tune, or whatever it may be) which the subject is to name. Records of
8uCC688ful experiments of this sort are gradually being accumulated; but the
general acceptation of thought·transference might be indefinitely hutene(} if we
could induce more people to make trials.
• Procudillg8 Vol. I" p, 256; Vol, II., pp. 13-17.
Digitized by Google
418 Some Higher .AspeCi8 of Me8mt'1·18m.
ject" by Professor Barrett. To ensure a neutral tone, he took care (after
the first 12 trials) not to know himself which of the two cards he
gave to the mesmerist until a.fter the result, which. according to the will
that had been exerted, was either the answer II yes," or silence. We have
not been equally successful in trials directed to control of movements of
a more visible sort; but we occasionally meet with cases where attempts
to make people look round, &c.-valueless in the casual form that they
ordinarily assume-have been made the subject of more, careful and
persistent experiment. The Rev. J. Lawson Sisson, Rector of
Edingthorpe, North Walsham (whose interest in mesmerism, like that of
80 many otherl!, lw.gan with the discovery of his own power to aJlevili.te
pain), tells us that he has made several definite trials on sensitive
" subjects" with complete success. When one of these "subjects" was
walking many yards in front of him, engaged in conversation and totally
unaware of his attention, "I could," he says, "by raising my hand and
10illing it, draw her head quite back." Quite recently, we are told, a.
similar power was repeatedly exercised on a. patient by the house-
physician of a large London hospital. But it is, of course, far more
satisfactory if BOme more marked interference with normal conduct
C&ll be induced. The following experiment. of Mr. Sisson's was
performed on an incredulous la.cly, whose first experience of the subject
had been a few moments' subjection to the slightest possible hypnotic
process in the course of the evening.
ConverRation went on to other topics, and then followed a ligbt supper.
Several of the gentlemen, myself among the number, were obliged to stand.
I stood talking to a friend, against thewall, and at the back of Mias Cooke.
BOme three or four feet oft' her. Her wine·glasa WII filled, and I made up
my mind that she ahould not drink without my " willing." I kept on talk-
ing and watcbing her many futile attempts to ge~ the gllla to her mouth.
Sometimes ahe got it a few incbes from the level of the t!l.ble ; sometimes ahe
got it a little higher, but she evidently felt that it WII not for some reason to
be done. At lilt I said, "MiBB Cooke, why don't you drink your wine 1" and
her I\DSwer WII at once, .. I will when you let me."
The Zoi.t contains several well-marked ca.sea of the same kind. Thus
Mr. Barth there records the case of a. patient of his own (Vol. VII.,
p.280).
When she wished to leave the room, I could at any time prevent her by
willing that she should stay, and this silently. I could not arrest her pro-
grau whilat she WII in motion, but if she stood for a moment and I mentally
said " Stand," she stood unable to move from the spot. If she placed her
hand on the table I could affix it by my will alone, and unfix it by will.
If she held a ruler or paper-knife in her closed hand, I could compel her by
will alone to unclose her hand and drop the article. Frequently when she has
been at the tea-table, and I quite behind and out of sight, have I locked her
Digitized by Google
Some HigMI' .&&pectB of MeB11Ielvm. 419
jaws or arrested her hand with her bread-and-butter in it, when half way
betwixt her plate and her mouth.
Mr. N. Dunscombe, J.P. (Vol. IX.,p. 438), records of himselfthat~
having attended some mesmeric performances, he was for some time at
the mercy of the operator's silent will.
He has caused me, by way of experiment, to leave my seat in one part of
my house, and follow him all through it and out of it till I found him. He
was not in the room with me, neitherhad I the slightest idea of his attempt-
ing the experiment. I felt an unaccountable desire to go in a certain
direction.
The Rev. L Lewis (Vol. V., p. 324) describes the assumption by a.
young lady, under the influence of the silent will of his son, of several
distinctly marked r81es-among others, those of the Queen and of Sir
R. Peel. And more remarkable still are the cases of acts performed
under the silent control of Mr. H. S. Thompson, of Moorfields, York.
of which we have elsewhere given one or two instances. The recorders
of these experiments have unfortunately seldom recognised the need of
making clear to the reader that a11 chance of physical indications was
excluded; and it is, we know, difficult to convince perilons not present
at the time that adequate precautions have been taken. But after a
little experience such precautions are not really difficult to take.
It will be observed that we have cited one case where mesmeric
sleep was induced at the distance of fifty miles; but there is hardly any
weU-attested record of the induction of acti01l8, when the" willer" and
the" willed" have been further removed from one &.nother than two
neighbouring rooms. The liability to have definite acts compelled from
a distance, which figures in romance and in the popular imagination as
the natural and terrible result of mesmeric influence, is precisely the
result for which we can find least evidence. Our friend, Mr. B., how-
ever, to whose powers of this kind we have elsewhere referred, ha.s sup-
plied us with an instance where t.he impulse to action was transferred,
though imperfectly, over a distance of five miles. The case is worllt
quoting, though the agency ca.nnot be shown to have been specifically
mesmeric.
On Wednesday, July 26th, 1882, at 10.30 p.m., I willed very strongly
that Miss V., who was living at Clarence Road, Kew, .hould leave any part
of that house in which she might happen to be at the time, that she should
go upatain to her bed-room, and remove a portl'8it from her dressing-table_
On the Friday following I received a letter, saying that on tIle above day.
and at the time above mentioned, Mias V. experienced a strong influence to
go and remove 80mething from her dresaing-table, but ahe was not sure as to
the exact article. She obeyed the impulse, and removed something, but not
the portrait detennined upon by myself.
At the time of the experiment, I was at a distance of fiye miles (viz.,
Southall, Middlesex) from the lady in question.
Digitized by Google
420 SOlne Higher Aspect8 of Me8meri8m.
[This account was drawn up for us in 1883, from an entry in a diary
written immediately after the occurrence.]
On Thursday, July 27th, without having seen or had any communication
with Mr. B., Mias V. wrote to him lUI follows:-
.. What were you doing between 10 and II o'clock on Wednesday
evening 1 If you make me so rest1eBB, I shall begin to be afraid of you. I
p08itively cOllld flot stay in the dining-room, and I believe you meant me to
be upstairs, and to move something on my dreBBing-tablc. 1 want to see if
you know what it was. At any rate, I am .mre you were thinking some-
thing about me."
Mr. B. then wrote and told MiBB V. that the object he had thought of
,vas Mr. G.'s photograph. She answered:-
.. I muat tell you it was not G.'s photo, but something on my table
which, perhaps, you would never think of. However, it was really wonder-
ful how impoBBible I found it to tllitm or do anything until I came upstairs,
and I 1mew for certain that your thoughts were 1~re; and in fact it seemed as
if you were very near."
[Miss V., whom we regard as a completely trustworthy witneBB, has since
given an independent account, agreeing with the above in every detail, tQ
one of the present writers, who has also examined the original letters.]
Similarly there are a. few cases on record where lUJllucination8 have
been induced by the will of a distant operator. And such exceptional
command of the sensory faculties of another is, from our point of view,
of even greater interest than the command of his actions; for it forms
a specially convenient link between the ordinary "thought-trans-
ference," which deals wit-h simple and unemotional impressions, and
those strong invasions of the senses or the mind by the presence of
friends who are really dying or in some unusual state of excitation far
away, of which we have already given some account (and hope soon to
give a much fuller one) under the title of "Phantasms of the Living."
The examples which we have already published have heen unconnected
with mesmerism. But in the following case, if correctly described, the
"apport seems to have been distinctly due to previous mesmerisation.
Mr. John Moule, of Codicote, near Welwyn, who gives the account, is
personally known to one of us. He tells us that, as a young man, he
had considerable success in mesmerising his friends.
In the year 1855 I felt very anxious to try and affect the moat sellSith-e
of my mesmeric subjects away from my house and unknown to them. I
chose for this purpose a young lady, a MiBB Drasey, and stated that some
day 1 intended to visit her, wherever she might be, although the pla.ce
might be unknown to me; and told her if a.nything particular ahould occur,
to note the time, and when she called at my house aga.in, to state if anything
bad occurred. Olle day, about two months after (I not hanng scen her in
the intel'T'al), 1 was by myself in my chemical fll.ctory, Redman'slWw, Mile
End, London, all alone, and 1 determined to try the experiment, the lady
boing in Dalston, about three miles oft'. 1 !!toad, raised my hands, and
Digitized by Google
Some Higher Aspects of Mesmerism. 421
willed to act on the lady. I soon felt that I had expended energy. I
immediately sat down in a chairand went to sleep. I then saw in a dream
my friend coming down the kitchen stairs, where I dreamt I was. She saw
me, and suddenly exclained, .. Oh I Mr. Moule," and fainted away.. This I
dreamt, and then awoke. I thought very little about it, supposing I had had
an ordinary dream ; but about three weeks after she came to my house, and
related to my wife the singular occurrence of her seeing me sitting in the
kitchen, where she then was, and that she fainted away, and nearly dropped
some dishes she had in her hands. All this I saw exactly in my dream, 110
that I described the kitchen furniture and where I sat as perfectly as if 1
had been there, though I had never been in the house. I gave many details,
and she said, "It is just as if you had been there." After this she made
me promise that I would never do it again, as she would never feel happy
with the idea of me appearing to her. Some time after this she left this
country for Australia, and died a few years afterwards.
[This case is, of course, somewhat weakened by the fact that the intended
trial had been mentioned-though some time before-to the "subject."]
So much for our second head, which brings us nearly to the end of
our space. Resen'ing our final topic-clairvoyance-for independen~
treatment, we may conclude with a brief summary of the ways in. '
which our review of mesmerism, as so far published, appears to us to
have differed from former discussions of the subject. In the first place,
while making a clear distinction between Hypnotism and Mesmerism,
we have maintained the independent reality of both sorts of phenomena.
We have thus, on the one hand, sep&l"&ted ourselves from the writers
on mesmerism who, in ignorance of the work of Braid and his followers,
and judging from purely superficial indications, have confused together
all the phenomena at whick the ordinary uninstructed person will gape,
and have attributed to some mysterious agency effects which science
clearly perceh-es to be due to a peculiar nervous condition, induced by
a particular sort of stimulation. On the other hand, we have equally
separated ourselves from the party who find in this peculiar condition,
and in the mono-ideism and automatic obedience which it entails, a.
key to the whole range of the phenomena. For we have both pointed
out facts in the ordinary path of hypnotic experiment, which had
never been faced, or in any way explained by the hypnotic theorists;
and we have further devised special experiments, as precise as theil-
own, with the express view of eliminating the factors on which they
relied. The complete success of these experiments was too much in
accordance with the testimony of previous observers to cause us much
astonishment; our own claim is for the first time to have established
their truly crucial character by carefully distinguishing them from the
cases to which the hypnotic theory may be reasonably applied, and by
emphasising which "hypnotists" have always seemed to themselves.
able to refute "mesmerists."
Digitized by Google
422 Some Higher ABptct8 oj Me8meri8m.
We then pointed out how, in many cases, mesmerism seems only to
determine with special certainty events which are found also capable of
spontaneous occurrence-that the power seems to be that of directing
and controlling nervous conditions previously observed, or, at any rate,
previously existing. In the department of somnambulism the natural
phenomena are as distinct as the induced, and have been as distinctly
recorded; but, as regards the sanative influence of one organism on
another, this, until specialised by mesmerism, was, by its very nature,
80 vague and diffusive that we can, perhaps, point to no more exact
record of it than is contained in the widely-spread popular belief in
physical sympathies and antipathies, and in the beneficial influence on
the old of contact with the young. The notion of mesmerism as
directing and concentrating influences which yet may assert themselves
in its absence, was again strongly suggested in the obvious relationship
which the dODlination of an a~ent person by the specific power bears to
the experimental cases of thought-transference and "willing," and to
the spontaneous cases of telepathic apparitions. And the same notion
will find further confirmation in connection with the topic of
clairvoyance.
But our main objoot throughout has been to stimulate rather than
to expound-to suggest questions rather than to resolt'e them. The
immediate need is a far larger body of contemporary evidence. The
subject is, no doubt, one which, on its practical side, demands care and
caution, but there is no reason why experiments should be confined to
the hospital, or even to the" psycho-physical laboratory." Experiments,
for instance, in "community of sensation" or in "silent willing"
depend, in no way, 011 the presence of morbid or hysterical subjects,
and a.re well worth trying by any patient observer who can induce the
necessary trance. Some experienced guidance is needed at the outset,
and such guidance it is one of the objects of the Society for Psychical
Research to afford. But it would be 110 grave retardation of science were
it assumed that this strange '1'11.6tapsychosis was a medical curiosity alone.
n is much more than this. It is the key which seems likeliest to unlock
the mysteries of attention and memory; of sleep, dreams, and halluci-
nation; of "double consciousness" and of religious ecstasy. It is by thus
throwing the mental machinery slightly out of gear that we discem the
secrets of its adjustment, or (to use 0. more fanciful metaphor) " the
soul that rises in us, our life's star," acquires from this displacement a
sensible parallax, and reveals laws of its motion which direct introspec-
tion could net'er discover. Those who engage" in this as in other
branches of psychical research must be prepared to face much wearisome
failure, much deceptive ambiguity. Yet thus, perhaps, may they with
most reason hope to lay the comer-stone of a valid experimental
psychology. and to open up our deepest inlet into the inner man.
Digitized by Google
Some HigAer .&speCtB of NeBmm-iBm. 423
[Since the above paper was written, the views therein expreued con-
cerning the existence, limits, and varieties of mesmerism, 8.1 a thera-
peutical agency, have received remarkable and unexpected corroboration from
some results which had not been made public in Englandat the time that we
wrote. The origin of the important hypnotic work at the town of
Nancy, in France, dates from many yea.ra back, wben Dr. Li~bea.ult
first established himself there in private practice. His labours have
of late yea.ra received recognition from the authorities of the medical
school; and in the H3pita.1 Civil, for the first time since the daye of
Elliotaon and Eada.ile, hypnotism is now being practised on a large acaJe by
a physician of repute. Profe880r Bernheim is preparing a second edition
of his book, "La. Suggestion Hypnotique," in which his recent observa-
tions on the therapeutical a.apect ot the subject will be included.
Through his kindnell, and that of Dr. Li~bea.ult, we have ourselves witnessed
their methods ;and, in company witb Dr. A. T. Myers, have examined many
of their patients. The conclusions to be drawn seem to be com-
pletely congruous with those which, in the foregoing article, we have
derived from the earlier recorda. The succell attained hu, in the very large
majority of instances, consisted in the relief of pain and the removal of
functional disturbances-that is to aa.y, in results which (8.1 we have pointed
out) afFord little if any proof of a specific or "mesmeric" iniluence; and Dr.
Li~bea.ult·s work,."Du Sommeil et des Etats Analogues," published in 1866, is
in fact opposed to tbe "mesmeric" hypothesis. But further experiences,
especia.lly with very young children, have now convinced him that the
hypothesis which we have advocated in respect of a certain residue of
ca.aes is fully justified, and that a specific influence is in some cases exer-
cised; and this view he ha.a with great condour expreaaed in a recent
tra.cta.te, •• La ZoomagntStisme.I
In view of the Nancy record, it might seem that tbe prospects of this
form of treatment were, after a.11, rather brighter than we have supposed.
But we are bound to add that the remarks made above in relation to Esdaile's
HindOOl, 8.1 to di1l"erences of susceptibility in di1l"erent natiollll, appear to a.
very considerable extent to hold good of the French temperament, 8.1 com-
pared with the English. A far larger proportion of patients are distinctly
affected ill the Nancy warda than our own English experience would have
led us to anticipate. At the aame time, what we saw there cannot but
increa.a& our desire to see the aame line of experiment boldly entered upon,
or at any rate fairly recognised, by English medical men. .No patient has
ever been the worse for it; and the a.11eviation in certain ca.aea seema to be
of a more pronounced kind than is wely attainable in any other way.]
Digitized by Google
