{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephen S NDE 5024","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen S NDE 5024  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2602 Stephen S NDE 5024  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having blood taken from my bone marrow while experiencing symptoms including shortness of breath and chest pains. I told the nurse that I was going to pass out. 

The next thing I remember was looking down on myself being attended to by two doctors and two nurses trying to revive me. I was totally detached from my body. All the pain that I had been suffering was gone. There was a feeling of complete comfort, ease, enlightenment, and freedom. I was cognizant energy with no body or physical being. The best word for what I felt was ultimate bliss. As the doctors revived me, I could feel all of the stress, pain and physical burdens returning and I did not want to go back. I felt myself being drawn back into my body. 

Then my physical eyes opened and I was admitted into the intensive care unit for one week for tests. Since that episode, I have had a couple of experiences where I had strong premonitions that came true. It seemed to open up my mind to a new dimension.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in a hospital with symptoms that my doctors did not understand. It resulted in me being clinically dead for three minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time went very quickly. In fact, it seemed that time was not a real dimension.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In this state, the only sense that corresponded to everyday senses is sight and sound. There were no kinetic feelings of touch of weight. It was an intense feeling of enlightenment and energy. I had a tremendous sense of being and awareness of what was happening with no judgment thoughts such as fear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear, but hearing was unnecessary. I felt as though I was energy with completely different sensory perceptions that I used normally.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme curiosity and feeling of bliss. There was no fear or concern.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not at the time, but did have a very vivid vision that came true shortly after.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Spiritual

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My beliefs are now more in line with those beliefs of eastern cultures. Now that I know that my being goes on after my physical body ceases to exist, I believe that we are all forms of connected energy and I believe in reincarnation.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My beliefs are now more in line with those beliefs of eastern cultures. Now that I know that my being goes on after my physical body ceases to exist, I believe that we are all forms of connected energy and I believe in reincarnation.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a feeling of being connected to all things that I still hold dear today.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Relationships are actually more difficult for me. I believe that people who have had this experience see the world differently that those who have not. It makes it hard to relate to others. This is not true of my relationship with my daughters that has always been wonderful. They understand my experience and are comfortable with it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Absolutely. I had a vision/warning of a car accident that happened four hours later. I have also felt the presence of my father who passes away. I seem to be closely linked to that dimension since this happened.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It changed my perception of death and hence changes how you view life. There is a sense of calm knowing that death is not the end. I also developed an intense thirst for understanding our capabilities beyond our five known senses. I have been certified as a hypnotherapist (hobby) since the incident and have taken many classes in auras, astral projection, and past lives.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. They found it fascinating.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never had any doubt that it happened. The transition from clinically dying, to the out of body experience, to being resuscitated was seamless and logical.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After this happened to me, I researched those with like experiences. The commonalities were significant. I feel blessed to have experienced this at such a young age.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Your earlier questions seem to bias respondents to say that they saw a light or encountered other beings. This did not happen to me, but some might feel compelled to say it did given how the questions are phrased.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_s_nde.html