{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephen M NDE 6113","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen M NDE 6113  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2886 Stephen M NDE 6113  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was January 22nd 2006 when I, my brother Tony and our brother-in-law Mike were run down by a speeding drunk driver as we walked home from a night out. My brother died a few hours later from serious head injuries, whereas our brother-in-law thankfully suffered only minor injuries. I was severely hurt, suffering multiple injuries. After reading reports sometime later, it was disclosed that I was resuscitated twice. Once, as I lay in the road, all I remember was my body shaking violently and then everything went dark. As I came to, I was being taken to the hospital in a speeding ambulance. As I drifted in and out of consciousness, I noticed there was a lot of activity around me in the hospital. It was there that, once again, my body started to shake uncontrollably.  Just as I felt I was about to pass out or something, I remember seeing a doctor run up to me with what I can only describe as a syringe in his raised hand, and just as my eyes closed, he brought that syringe down and into my chest. Then it was darkness again.

I have no idea of time scale here, but I remember opening my eyes again, and had a really strange feeling that I wasn't laid in the usual horizontal position, but more of a vertical one. I felt 'upside down', in the sense that my feet were up on the ceiling, and my head towards the floor. As I slowly turned my head right, then left, I was actually looking at the top of the nurses heads as they walked around. I called out, in a quiet and calm tone, yet I don't remember my lips moving. I said these exact words: 'What's happening? Where am I? Everything's changed.' I saw no one look at me yet I heard a female voice reply, 'It's alright. Everything's going to be alright.' Then as I turned to look ahead again, I slowly drifted back into darkness. It was a few hours later when I slowly came round and was out of danger, but I remember that experience as clearly as if it happened just yesterday. Apart from family and close friends, no one else really knows about this but now I want more people to read of my experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  22nd January 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had been hit by a speeding car driven by a drunk driver.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Although it felt like a dream sequence, I was fully aware throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to go slower than usual.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything during my experience seemed really bright, white and warm.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing seemed to have a slight echo to the things I heard, including my own voice.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Things around me seemed much brighter and whiter than normal white, as though everything WAS white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a slight sadness, but I wasn't sad, yet it was so calming, like slow motion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Although I was not a non-believer, religion was not at the forefront of my life.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe more now than I did before my experience.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I am Church Of England Christian.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel that there is more than just this life we are living. I think there is nothing to fear in dying now.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I feel more connected to other people now. Many other people who have lost loved ones now find great comfort all over the world in my work. My experience directly resulted in large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I feel a much deeper closeness now with family and friends.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember opening my eyes again, and had this really strange feeling that I wasn't laid in the usual horizontal position, but more of a vertical one. I felt 'upside down', in the sense that my feet were up on the ceiling, and my head towards the floor.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have become very active in writing poems, making music and also combining the two into a visual form by making videos and narrating my poetry in these videos. I am able to communicate more with other people.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I firstly told my family probably about a week later. Friends were told weeks later, and when I told them, I felt that they believed me, as I was never one to 'make up stories.' They listened with great interest as I told them my experience, and I got the feeling that they felt more at peace after I told them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt a consciousness, albeit it 'surreal', as soon as I was able to focus.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_m_nde.html