{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_m_nde_9745.html","mytitle":"Stephen M Probable NDE 9745","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen M Probable NDE 9745  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5268 Stephen M Probable NDE 9745  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had a very bad drug problem at the time.  I still do, but now I'm free of the actual drug. I took too much  heroin. 

I awoke to find myself hovering 20 feet above myself. It was dark except in the vortex in front of me. I was watching the girl in the car straddling me and pounding on my face and chest because I had turned blue.  I stopped breathing for a few minutes. I was weightless,  just floating there for a few minutes. 

Suddenly, I woke up outside of the truck. I was face down in a pile of snow.  It took me a while to remember what actually happened.   
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

  Date NDE Occurred: 	 10/1/2018  
  
NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug or medication overdose       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I took too much heroin.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   It felt like everything was distorted; slowed down way down.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       either when I woke in the snow or right after it first happened and I was above myself. Or pretty quickly after it started. I was startled when I woke in the snow.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     slower way slower  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was looking through a tunnel, vortex at this situation.  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    couldn't hear  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was in the other side of the tunnel. I had gone through it. I just can't remember how  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt sad, crying, lost, tired, forgetful, and scared.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know.   My family is Catholic. I didn't  participated too much.  
  
  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I just know now they're is an afterlife.  
  
  What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths:   vibration, frequency and light are my God now.  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     It was as if I was going into a black void. I always thought there was a heaven. I didn't picture it like this  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know there is someone else after this physical life  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain.     The fact that I was watching my body leave my body, leads me to believe I was somewhere. The girl in the car stopped my journey.  
  
Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     Not much as a direct result of this experience. That's not what brought me to where I am. It helps now that I know. Vibration, frequency, and light are god.  
  
After the NDE:     

  Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   the time in between floating and being in the snow, I can't remember  
  
  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It was real. I would like to find out how I got up 20 feet. I think I will try and get hypnotized.  
  
  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I  am fairly successful at remote-viewing and inducing out of body experiences now.  
  
Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being saved by that girl  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    years. I'm not sure if people were influenced. I don't think too many people care. My dad has had this happen to him recently also  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The reality is that it happens. It took me months if not years to remember fully. I try to duplicate, but not successfully yet  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     
  
  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I can have OBEs  
  
  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to know how I got up above myself and how I got back down. That is all. This is a very important matter and needs to be discussed.  
  
Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       n/a            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_m_nde_9745.html