{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_b_fde.html","mytitle":"Stephen B FDE 2629","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen B FDE 2629  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen B FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						857  Stephen B FDE  2629  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I experienced a life review moments before a car that I was driving smashed into a telephone pole. By luck, the driver's side door flipped open and I was thrown out of the car. It seemed at the time that my mind was preparing itself for death. In an instant, I saw major milestones in my life from being a baby until the present. I do not remember if I saw a white light at the end of the life review but I remember thinking that I was not prepared to die - too young.

From that time on, I have always been very aware of how one's life on earth can quickly be gone. I feel that I have since that day been living on 'borrowed time' and have strove to enjoy each and every day.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1967  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Thrown from a car about to crash.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was more focused and intense, almost stopped in time.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the life review.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time seemed to stop during the life review. The life review was instantaneous and rapid.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My mind took over and forced the images in my life review. During that instant I was not using my vision per se.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall hearing anything during the life review.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I believe that I saw a white light at the end of the life review, just before I was thrown from the car. It was not important at the time.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I believe that I saw a white light at the end of the life review, just before I was thrown from the car. It was not important at the time.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Neutral at first, as an observer, then at the end when I felt that my mind was preparing for death, I was perhaps remorseful that my life would end so soon.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw images that summarized my life to date, baby, young boy, older boy, etc. Maybe saw immediate family, it's been a long time since the incident.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Presbyterian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Presbyterian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that death was a reality. I was not and am not afraid of death; however, at that point in time, I was not prepared for death. Death did not seem scary.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have a greater appreciation of life and understand the futility of seeking peace, happiness, and fulfillment in material objects.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the fact that I didn't die - very meaningful.  :)  I believe that a life review is perhaps a common experience that people have when they are about to die. Knowing that this is perhaps, the manner in which we leave the physical body may make it less scary, at least in my mind, there is nothing to be fearful of.  I know that I will die, I just don't know when. However, I believe that we can control when to some extent; and, as ironical as it may seem, while I realize that death can occur when we least expect it, I personally believe that I will live to be at least ninety-seven years old. Check back with me in forty-two years and we will see if it is just a fantasy or if I have some sort of internal clock or can simply will such to be the case.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the experience immediately with the person riding in the car with me - moments after the accident, then with my girlfriend later that night and with my mother even later in the evening. It was an eerie/supernatural, or least uncommon experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No suggestions. I briefly heard a representative from your organization on a late night radio show and thought that I would share my experience, hope it helps.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_b_fde.html