{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_i_other.html","mytitle":"Stephen I Experiences 22586","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen I Experiences 22586  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen I Experiences  					  					  						Home  						Classification DBV, Other  			2881 Stephen I Experiences 22586  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a nurse’s aide in a hospital working in geriatrics. My patient was 85 years old with left sided paralysis. Along with the stroke that paralyzed him, went the part of his brain that controls social inhibition. He was extremely foul mouthed and hyper-sexual. Because of this, he was always assigned to me as none of the female staff wanted to be around him. He required a great deal of physical care.

One night I had a dream where I was standing at the foot of his bed, actually about one foot above the foot of his bed. I reached out to him with both my hands, he took them, and I gave him a gentle pull. As he moved forward in my direction while I was pulling him, I felt kind of a ‘whoosh’. It was more than just a pull, it was like his essence was coming with him - then he pulled back and the same ‘whoosh’ feeling happened, only in reverse. This happened three times with us pulling back and forth. The dream ended there. I came into work the next morning and noticed he wasn't in his bed. I was informed that he was in the ICU (intensive care unit). They had had a heart attack. They coded him three times (coded is when the heart stops and they have to shock them to bring them back). His family didn't want to let him go so they would not sign a ‘do not resuscitate’ order. They made three attempts to bring him back and he and I did three ‘pulls’ in our tug of war in my dream! He survived.

About a month later, I had another dream where I was at work and I was making my patient rounds. In the dream, my patient was not in his bed. I went to the charge nurse and reported this. She told me to go look for him! So down the hallway to his room I go. The next thing I know, the hallway changes into this beautiful forest. I then see off in the distance a light coming towards me. As it got closer, it became a form, then the body of my patient! He looked great! White suit, everything, and WALKING! I remember my first thought was annoyance as I was thinking of all the times I cleaned him up when he was able to walk all along. He came up me and shook my hand (with his paralyzed arm!) and said, ‘I just wanted to thank you for taking such good care of me. Please tell my wife how much I love her and I am sorry I was such a burden’. Then he turns around and leaves. When I went to work the next morning, I was prepared to tell him that I had a dream about him, only to find out that he had passed away in the night.

Another Experience:

When I was four and five years old, we lived in a house that we rented from my mother’s parents in Los Angeles. The first time I saw the shadow man was when he came out of the closet (through the closed door no less!) in my bedroom. It was a man and he was quite three dimensional, but he had no features - just empty blackness. I remember being terrified and screaming. This would usually bring my parents running. I was (or so I'm told) fairly articulate for a four year old and I was able to tell my parents exactly what I saw. They, of course, told me I was having a bad dream as this first experience was at night.  

Over the next two years, this happened rather frequently and it happened night and day. Usually it was only one shadow person, but sometimes it was more than one. Other than the sheer terror I felt when I saw them, I don't remember them ever having an interest in me or even coming in my direction. They would just go walking through the room, walking VERY slowly. I remember wishing they would move faster! They would usually come through the closet door or through the walls and exit the room through one of the walls. They were not ON the wall like a shadow. They moved through the room like a person. I remember my mom asking me if I knew what or who they were.  It became a fight to get me to go to bed at night or even be in my room alone. I told her they were called Lolo's (lowlow's) God knows where I got that name from! We moved from that house and I never saw them again.  

One day a few years ago, I was telling my Aunt (my mother’s sister) about these shadowmen as she apparently had never heard the stories about my experiences when I was little. It turns out she lived in the same room when she was little and she saw them too! She never mentioned it to anyone, but they came out of the closet as well. Oddly enough, she said she remembered Abraham Lincoln living in her closet (with the black coat and black top hat) but she said when I told her of my experience she remembered him to be just a shadow. Her parents were not as understanding as mine were so she kept it to herself and she says she remembers she named him Abraham Lincoln so she wouldn't be so scared.

Fifty years later, my mother had cancer and she was in hospice care in my living room in a hospital bed. She was hallucinating badly – until I started listening to her hallucinations and they made sense. She was saying things like, ‘Look! My dad’s standing over there!’ I would ask her what he wanted and she would say, ‘He’s standing next to this tunnel and he wants me to go into it with him, but I don’t think I want too.’ She started talking and laughing with someone that I couldn’t see a lot. I asked her who she was talking to and she would say, ‘Why, that little boy, can’t you see him?’ She did this for days and I assured her that she was the only person who could see him. One day, a couple of weeks before she passed, she was chatting away with this unseen child. I asked her to ask him what his name was. She turned her head away from me and said in the direction of the little boy, ‘What’s your name?’ I asked her if he answered her and she said, ‘He said his name is Lolo.’ I broke out in a sweat.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was asleep.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My patient.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was my patient.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Nothing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many were interested.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_i_other.html