{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephanie_s_nde_220.html","mytitle":"Stephanie S NDE 220","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephanie S NDE 220  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephanie S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1410 Stephanie S NDE 220  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was simply having my wisdom teeth out -- a simple operation taking ten minutes. However, the night before I had a premonition that something terrible was going to happen to me. I called my sister and some friends to tell them but no one would believe me. I still went to the hospital with a slight fear and even told the anesthesiologist that he had to make sure that I pulled through. He just laughed and then I was put into the operating chair and was given anesthetic. All I can recall was I was woken up with them pulling the tube out of my throat and giving me heart massage. I did know somehow that they hadn't completed the operation and that they had only managed to get one tooth out! I told the surgeon this and she confirmed that they had only been about three minutes into the operation before I had a massive heart attack.

Also, my reaction was not a normal anaphylactic response. I didn't show any signs that I was going to have an attack i.e. asthma/difficulty breathing, blue mouth, body twitching I just simply crashed.

Not only that when they were trying to revive me they injected me with enough drugs to kill a six foot man and I was out in total for about ten minutes -- to this day they cannot believe that I had no organ or brain failure and should quite rightly be a vegetable.

Obviously, they knew then that I had been correct about my premonition but no one would talk to me.

My twin sister came to visit me and I was in shock for two days. All I knew was that I now had the knowledge that we don't die and that there is a wonderful peace and knowing when we do. I was distraught and it took me nearly two years to want to live, as all I wanted to do was die and couldn't understand why they had sent me back.

When I left the hospital, it was amazing, I was like a newborn child I could see and feel colors in everything (and even see molecular structures of plants and things). Everything seemed to be vibrating on a different frequency.

Now several years later I know that I can visit different dimensions and time zones (often in lucid dreams) or actual physical experiences when I am doing normal things.

Immediately after my release from hospital, I became more psychic for a limited period and could tell you the name, date, time and place when I would run into people -- even those that I hadn't seen for several years and had no contact with! I thought I was going crazy and had to give a friend all details and she would come with me to the stated places where sure enough everything I predicted came true.

These have now subsided. I sought some help via a medium to try to understand what happened and why I returned. Apparently, I met with my brother (who I didn't even know I had) but my mother has since confirmed that she lost a baby before my sister and I were born and it was a boy. He is my guide and a governing board of people told me I had to return, as I am a spiritual leader and need to continue my life path. This is now what I am trying to do and find different avenues for my healing powers.

I know I sound like a bit of weirdo but trust me I am a Director of a Public Relations Company and considered pretty, bright etc. None of my friends or family will speak to me about my experience and call me the loony or it could only have ever happened to you. For some reason today I was searching the net and found your site -- obviously meant to be.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  15th January 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    Clinical death   Heart attack whilst under anesthetic.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I must have been able to as I knew that they hadn't completed the operation and was able to tell them what they hadn't done yet.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was under anesthetic but was aware in my soul, if you can understand that on some level?

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I knew that they were present, couldn't see them just feel them.

The experience included:       Light

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I knew that I was in another dimension but could only feel it.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It wasn't an emotion except that I didn't want to return.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew that it was a place that I wanted to stay and that I had found the final place -- i.e. after death I somehow knew that I was dead and this was somewhere after. It is only in retrospect that I know a universal force is at work and we have destinies that we can sometimes control (not always).

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Only a couple days after I had many psychic experiences including dreams and premonitions. I still do.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Because of the anesthetic I am not too sure but I know afterwards that I did not want to come back and questioned 'God' for a very long time on why I had to come back to this world when I didn't want to be here.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am no longer afraid of death or dying and even when my husband's brother died suddenly all I felt was peace. His family weren't too happy as I couldn't understand their grief as I knew he was safe and well.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can't really confirm a visual response only a 'feeling' of what occurred.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always had psychic ability but this was heightened to an almost scary level. I was very frightened and didn't know what was happening to me. I am now able to enter different dimensions (not always of my own making) very similar feeling to that seen in the film Matrix.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It gave me the strength to be true to myself and not be afraid of anything or anyone. It also has made me realize that time is precious and not to be wasted.  The worst part was the recovery and no one wanting to speak with me. I feel that I have a purpose and should tell everyone I meet but if I do loads of people (friends and family) can't understand why I need or want to talk about it so I don't anymore.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people think I am crazy and don't want to know. Even my husband and close friends get a glazed look if I return to it. I would like to be able to speak to people who know and understand me. I do believe that all those who have had this kind of experience are here for a reason.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I often have very vivid dreams where I am on another dimension or meeting people that I know in some psychic way.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish I could somehow be regressed to that exact moment in time once more so I could find out more about what happened. As I was under general anesthetic many believe your true psychic self is repressed and that is why I can't remember much more.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephanie_s_nde_220.html