{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_gfriend_prob_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephen Girlfriend Probable NDE 5285","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen Girlfriend Probable NDE 5285  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen Girlfriend Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE/Shared Death Experience  			2773 Stephen Girlfriend Probable NDE 5285  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been seeing my girlfriend for a little over a year. We went on a camping trip that we had been planning for a while, but it wasn't fun the way we had planned. She was in a really bad mood, off and on not getting along with me, and complaining of feeling 'off'. Anyway, we got back to her place, and an argument started, so I left and went home. What I didn't know was that she was pregnant with twins, but it was an ectopic pregnancy. One of the babies was stuck in a fallopian tube. She got sicker soon after I left and had to be rushed to the hospital that same night. After a few tests, and much pain and suffering, they began her surgery. 

During the operation, she remembers that she saw me at my home, lying on my bed, and that she called out to me by name. Now, at this exact same moment I was lying on my bed, just dozing a little.  I was awakened when startled by someone shouting my name. I ventured out onto my stairway landing to see who was calling, but nobody was there. I went back to lying on the bed. 

Over the next few days, I was able to speak to her, and was brought up to date on all that had happened. A strongly surreal moment for me was when she said, 'I saw you lying down on your bed, and I called to you'. I exclaimed, 'Oh my God, I heard you call! How can that be? You were 20 miles away!' 

I have pondered this over the years, and it wasn't until I started reading about NDEs that it came to me that the only logical explanation for this would be that she did indeed, leave her body and visit me. I did absolutely hear my name being called, clear as day!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my name was called. Very clearly, I heard my name, and it was my girlfriend's voice too!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Her voice rang out clearly and it startled me!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt confused as to who had called my name. It sounded so close that I was certain someone was right outside my door, on my landing, calling my name - but nobody was there!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More spiritual and, although this is only minor compared to some of the NDEs on here, it means the world to me.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More spiritual and, although this is only minor compared to some of the NDEs on here, it means the world to me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It has kept us together when times are tough. The fact she came for me shows me how spiritual she is and how much she thinks of me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact she needed me and came to get me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just me and my girlfriend, but we do still talk about it to this day. Through our ups and downs over the years it brings us peace to know that we are soul mates, and that this really happened!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The evidence is that she remembers saying it and I remember hearing it! We hadn't spoken yet, and it was one of the first things she said to me after I called to see what was happening. I had to sit down when she said, 'I called your name.' It was so real and loud, it woke me, as it would you, if you had been dozing and someone in the room had shouted your name.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Definitely out of body, or maybe we have a spiritual connection between us. I have been ill recently, and because of having some extra time while resting have been reading about NDEs. It brought it all back - how she may have managed to call my name from over 20 miles away during a life-saving operation in which she lost a lot of blood and had a seven-inch incision across her lower abdomen!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Sometimes when something happens just to you, well, you doubt it could be true; but when it happens between you and another person, and you didn't plan it out in advance, then that proves, at least to me, that we all have a connection, and that a soul can travel beyond the confines of the body.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_gfriend_prob_nde.html