{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephen C NDE 3254","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen C NDE 3254  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1185  Stephen C NDE  3254  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was accosted, stabbed repeatedly and shot twice in the spine. Made it to the emergency room. Then, as I was signing the 'consent' form, I 'left'. My first recollection was at the top of the emergency room. I could see myself on the table, several doctors and two policemen. I heard the doctor tell the cop to take my personal belongings to 'property' because, 'He won't be here in the morning.' Then, (and there was no relative 'time' frame) my next vision was above the hospital looking down.

The next 'moment', I was in a space of light. No tunnel of light - just a space. I 'learned' later that time and space only exist in the third dimension, and once one leaves it; there is none. There was no 'here' or 'there'. There was no definitive source of the light. The 'space' just WAS light. Then - here's where it gets weird - three beings appeared to me. (Now it must be said that up until that time I had no understanding or knowledge of ET's, afterlife stuff, NDE's, any of it - I was just an out of control, bike riding, drug using 'hippie' from the 1960's. Okay.)

Now I guess I should explain that after these events, I awoke five days later in the intensive care unit. It was another fifteen years before I 'awoke' and accepted what had happened to me. During that time, I thought I was totally insane, because I had a second 'voice' in my head - which I will explain later. In 1988, I chose to enter 'recovery' and quit drinking and using drugs. Within weeks of accepting 'Spirit' into my life, everything, and I do mean everything, changed.

Now, back to the 'experience'. So, there 'I' was, in this 'space' of light, with these three 'beings' appearing in front of me. We had a 'conversation' and later, (fifteen years) when all of this came 'clear', I was given a choice - as is always done - to stay 'gone' or to go back. 'They' told me that they wanted my 'form' (the physical form holds the cellular memories of all of one's experiences) and 'they' wanted to send me back with a 'new' spirit. A 'healing' and 'teaching' one. But that 'they' wanted it in a 'form' that had the ability to survive until the 'time' was 'right'. I must have agreed.

The next thing I remember was waking up in intensive care unit with tubes and wires everywhere. I should have had a colostomy, and many other surgeries. But, since no one expected me to make it, all they did was remove one of the bullets and sew me back up. Well within five days of waking up, I was walking around with the bottles on the racks. The doctors couldn't believe it. Within a few more days, I left the hospital.

Well I now had this 'new' spirit - but didn't know it consciously. So, my 'abuse' went really out there - trying to quiet this 'new' voice.

Long story short: Once I accepted Spirit, (1988) - everything changed. I knew intuitively most of the healing arts (Reiki, Acupuncture, Tai Chi, and others) I could see peoples 'restrictions'. I had an instant connection to people's 'higher selves' (Spirit) when they got within three feet of me. I instantly knew many of the teachings that were published years later.

When I 'touch' someone, their Spirit tells me their 'truth' - behind their 'cover story'. Made me a very good therapist. I also knew of the 'other inhabitants' of the universe. Don't 'go' there much anymore. Not the reason 'we' are here.

In 1996, I moved to Colorado, The Rocky Mountains, grounding. I've worked the eight to five thing; which I'd never done before - I needed to understand 'normal' - doubt I ever will. Today I own a real estate appraisal business, and my closest friends know 'who' I am, and know they can 'ask' when the 'need' arises. I've learned balance, peace, empathy, unconditional love and spiritual ethics from my 'walk' these past nineteen years.

Several 'writers' have wanted to do my 'life' story but I've always said no one would believe it. As for this writing, there is much more than is written here. This will give you a glimpse into ME.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1973

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Criminal attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I was shot and 'killed' by a gang.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      None during it. My 'head' didn't get clear enough until 1988. No, I take that back. One of my nurses told me that right after I 'woke' up, I was still talking to other beings.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   As stated before, Time and Space, as 'we' know it, only exists here, in the third dimension, on this planet. You do know that we created time - created it to justify our own existences. Everyone relates their 'well-being' to those things they have done or created in the 'past' - linear time. To answer the question - there was NO time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     See above comments.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't mention it before, but beings of the 'other' side, take a 'physical' form so that our conscious minds can understand 'them'. The conscious mind has great difficulty understanding the 'non-physical'. It has no reference points. It can only make logical assumptions. So, 'they' take a 'physical' form to make their conversations, and/or directions understood by us when we 'return' to the physical plane (if we choose to).

The experience included:      Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Everything WAS light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      It needs to be known to ALL that on the 'other' side there is no HELL, or 'bad' place. If there were, I definitely would have gone there. There is NO PAIN, NO LOSS, NO PHYSICAL SENSES AT ALL. Only peace, calm, connectedness to the 'all-that-is' - a true feeling of JOY, of 'HOME'. That's the only way I've ever been able to describe it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     'They' basically told me that I had 'used up my life force' and they wanted to give me a 'new' one that would benefit many.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Not until later.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     OH YEAH!!!

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Spiritual - Devine Intelligence - Creator

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     OH YEAH!!!

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   Not until later.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Didn't fully 'open' to it until years later when I changed my 'lifestyle'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     See above comments.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Pretty much all of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Uncertain    A few close friends - though many asked about me, once they saw the great change I made in my life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I knew at least most of it was real by the quickness I healed from the gunshot and knife wounds and that since then, I don't get sick or injured, and like cuts or bites all heal within twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Whatever that means.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I was there, that's all there is to it. And my resulting journey is evidence of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   Too lengthy to describe here.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I understand that your purpose with these questions is to get as clear a 'picture' of the person's experience as you can. Many of the questions appear redundant. Sorry, just my opinion.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_c_nde.html