{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephanie_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephanie R NDE 4630","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephanie R NDE 4630  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephanie R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2351 Stephanie R NDE 4630  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in the ocean with my father and it was very rough. He had a hold of me and then a huge wave hit us and separated us, we had swam out very far as I was a strong swimmer for my age and not afraid in the least. At first, I didn't panic and tried to get to the surface but the waves kept me under. The pain in my lungs came first from holding my breath, then when I couldn't any longer I started gulping water and sucking it up my nose, the pain was a terrible burning. Then my ears were making a whooshing sound and felt like they would with the worst earache I ever had. The next thing I recall is a total silence and being in a white bubble that totally encased me. The pain was gone completely and I could breathe freely. The bubble was filled with what I can only describe as thousands of tiny stars like a fine stardust that was the most beautiful sight I had ever seen or have ever seen to this day. I felt totally safe and warm, it was the most protected I had ever felt.

All of a sudden, I felt a strong jerk, as my father had found me and yanked me to the surface. I felt the pain in my lungs, ears and eyes again as he swam me in to shore. The lifeguard pounded on my back and I threw up water and coughed a lot. I was very upset to be out of the bubble and wanted to return right away. My mother told me I was very angry with my father, I remember feeling left behind. After an hour, my father insisted to everyone that he had to get me back out in the ocean or I would be afraid always, I wasn't at all and gladly went in hoping to feel that total security again. My father kept a strong hold on me and after when we were leaving the beach I heard my parents say that after being under so long (later as I got older I was told it was at least five minutes or so) they feared the worst. I tried many times to tell them what happened but they told me I imagined it and not to tell anyone or I would be laughed at. I didn't say anything for years but when I did later, I was met with a rolling of eyes or silence. To this day when I relate what happened, I cry tears of joy and still can feel the warmth of the bubble and sometimes in the shower, I see the stardust. Death does not scare me at all because I KNOW it is going home again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1959

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Near-drowning.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Couldn't find my way to the surface to breathe. My eyes and nose were stinging badly from breathing in salt water. My lungs hurt and I had to suck in lots of water.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the pain lifted and I felt the warmth and could breathe freely.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think I saw the stardust brighter, it sparkled. After this incident going to see fireworks didn't seem as exciting to me, not as bright, didn't light up the sky as much.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I remember how totally silent it was.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Definitely not entering a tunnel but in a protective bubble.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was bright in the bubble but more from stardust. It was light in the bubble compared to the water outside it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First panic, then comfort, warmth, pain free and safe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Attended Lutheran Sunday school occasionally.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Later baptized Methodist but do not attend church. More spiritual than religious.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have on occasion had feelings of caution for others, felt I had to warn them of impending danger.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of being so safe and out of harm's way, free to just be.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about four years after that I felt someone I knew should not take a plane trip, she cancelled after I kept after her and the plane had to turn back because of engine trouble. I seem to be able to read people's ulterior motives and am usually right.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was confused because it felt so real to me but I was being told it was my imagination.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know with my whole being that it was real, I cry when I think or talk of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am so thankful for the experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, I think you covered it well.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephanie_r_nde.html