{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephanie_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephanie C NDE 4984","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephanie C NDE 4984  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephanie C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2571 Stephanie C NDE 4984  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My NDE took place three days after the birth of my son. I had a cesarean section and the operation itself was flawless. However, the nurses made the mistake of not getting me up and around after the surgery until this afternoon on the third day. When a nurse and my husband finally tried to get me to sit up and then stand, things got messy. I stood up and blood poured out of me like someone was dumping a huge never-ending bucket of it on the floor. The last thing I remember was looking down at the flood of blood everywhere and said to my husband Kevin, 'Whoa, that's a lot of blood.' The next thing I remember was running through a field by myself in a white gown, picking flowers, smiling, laughing. This was a beautiful place with yellow and white flowers everywhere (I know they weren't daisies, they looked like oversized posies). There was a waterfall down the path with stone on either side of it. I just remember being so happy, felt a huge amount of love, I didn't ever want to leave this place.

The next thing I remember, they were trying to rouse me with smelling salts under my nose. I had passed out apparently for a good ten minutes and they called the doctor to come in and resuscitate me.  My blood pressure crashed and my heart stopped beating for about twenty seconds. I was so angry at all of them for bringing me back!!! I wanted to be in that meadow with the flowers!!! Not in this body with pain and blood!!! I Was so mad!!!! Oh, words can't describe it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  9-10-98

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth.  Loss of Blood  Other 'recovering from a Cesarean section birth of my son.'  Loss of blood after cesarean section.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wear glasses but didn't have them on there and could see with 20/20 vision.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The meadow with the flowers was beautiful

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       So much happiness, like a high!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'At the time, non-practicing catholic'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   born again Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Predicted two of my friends pregnancies, my coworkers remarriage and his name, etc.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I just knew I was in heaven. I was so happy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Wonderment, great interest.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I thought it was a dream until I read other NDEs and they had experiences identical to mine.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     A blessing and I must tell others that God, heaven and Jesus are real. There is a new chapter in our soul's life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephanie_c_nde.html