{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephanie_p_nde_7746.html","mytitle":"Stephanie P NDE 7746","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephanie P NDE 7746  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephanie P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3992 Stephanie P NDE 7746  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had an asthma attack but worse than ever before. There was no air going in. I was being driven to the hospital and I knew I was going to die. We were about half way to the emergency room when something took over me and I remember rolling down the window to have the air rush in and hopefully force itself in to my lungs. Anything to breathe. Then, at the top of my lungs, I screamed somebody help me. I remember looking at the person driving me and although I could not talk, I was shaking my head in disbelief because I did not yell that out the window. Something else took over me and yelled out the window. I was unable to talk so there was no way I could scream. Everything went to white after that and the next thing I knew I was in intensive care unit. Later that same night, in the darkened, isolated room, a nurse came in and said this is going to hurt you. It was the longest blood draw I've ever had and I could never see her face. It was like she had no face only white. She reassured me I'd be ok through this pain. I felt as if I was on the border between light and dark. I couldn't allow the darkness to come in and refused to pay attention to it. Then, the nurse was gone and I never saw her depart. I don't think she was in this dimension to be honest. That's my first experience. 

The second time, I was also near death due to asthma. This was different. I knew I was losing air and saw my fingers and toes turning blue. I couldn't speak. I believe I lost consciousness but remember everything around me being bright white light. I was above my body and could see myself being wheeled out to the ambulance. I was not moving but remember seeing myself there. It was all okay though. I was calm and felt at peace with not coming back. Relaxed and like everything was going to be fine from now on because all the other stuff didn't matter anymore. According to my boyfriend, I was in the ambulance for about 25 minutes before they drove away. I came around in there and may have been intubated. I am not certain of what happened but awoke, again screaming at the top of my lungs and wondering who was doing the screaming. Something else took over me in both cases.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  03/01/2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Allergic Reaction.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Two severe asthma attacks

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw the EMTs having trouble getting me to the ambulance. We were stuck in the lilac bush and that did happen.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was like an understanding of everything on a different level. I didn't question anything that was happening. It was as if I knew what everyone was thinking and none of it mattered. It was calming and comforting.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was outside, observing myself.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to have no meaning but seemed slower when I was outside of myself but then became faster when I was coming back around.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was clear and more vivid. Prior to the experience, my vision is rather poor. Very nearsighted and distant objects are blurry for me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing during the experience, I could hear, but I was not focused on what was being said as much as I was visually. Hearing was better than average prior to the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't recall a tunnel but bright light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright, white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and relief. Everything was okay and would be. It was a beautiful feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     An understanding of life and people came over me. It was understood. I had no reason to question anything, I just knew.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I'm not sure, in either case, what brought me back into my being. I had no problem staying there, but it was almost as if I was not allowed to go any further.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Raised Protestant but I have my own faith based in many different religions.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   See above

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Doubt has been removed; and although I am not a religious person, I feel more spiritually connected than ever before. That understanding between my life here and what's to come is not feared.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know I'm not done here yet. I have something I have to finish here before I'll be allowed to die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephanie_p_nde_7746.html