{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephanie_m_sde.html","mytitle":"Stephanie M SDE 9653","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephanie M SDE 9653  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephanie M SDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification SDE  						5212 Stephanie M SDE 9653  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    During my second year of practice, I was asked to see an imminently dying, college professor.  It was a life-altering experience.  
  
  As I opened the door of his hospital room, the unmistakable harbinger of impending death, invaded my being.  I saw an agitated, terrified, middle-aged man in the bed. He appeared in my mind’s eye to be jumping and  flailing,as he said, 'Don’t bother me, go away!' He bellowed with all his energy to no one in particular, but to all who might hear.   He continued, 'I don’t want to see an effing psychiatrist and don’t send in any  clergy either.'  I stood quietly just inside the door. When he seemed to finished, I explained that his attending physician requested that I meet with him.  I told him that if he  ask me to leave, I would honor that.  In the absence of an order to leave, I walked around the foot of the bed. I pulled a chair  up to the bedside and sat down.  We were both enveloped in the intense odor of degrading red blood cells, but looking at each other from opposite sides of a line in the sand.  He was an erudite professor at the apex of his career, rudely ambushed by a new illness, a killer for which there was no  treatment.  He did not have time to understand what had happened to him, why him, and what would replace today, at this moment.  He was  accustomed to telling others what to see and understand.  With little warning he was caught in a maelstrom of protest.  
  
  I told him that  'I have never died or faced imminent death.  But I will share with you anything I have ever read, heard, or thought about this.'  I was feeling the best I had to offer was to try to keep him company. I tried to remember what I knew about death, stories I’d read and heard, NDE reports, and other unexplainable phenomena I’d experienced.  As if waking from a trance, I realized that an hour had passed and there were patients lined up in my office across the street.  As I left, I could feel him become less agitated.  He appeared to be melting into the sheets.  I took the elevator down 10 floors to exit the hospital. 

  When I stepped into the parking lot, I instantly rose 3 to 4 feet off the ground.  Then I floated 3 feet in the air across the parking lot.    I continued to float up the 15 steps to the office building entrance, crossed the lobby to the elevators and pushed the button.  The visual image and sensation of being 3 feet above the floor persisted.  Once in the elevator, I felt anxious as I wondered, 'How will I meet with patients while 3 feet off the ground?!' At the time, it did not occur to me at the time that they might not perceive me to be elevated.  I exited the elevator on the 7th floor and made my way to the office door.  As I opened the door to enter the waiting room, I suddenly descended to walking on the floor. 
  
  When I retired, I reviewed and read the literature in an attempt to understand a source of consciousness apart from the brain. I read accounts by individuals who reported on experiences called near-death experiences including those by physicians who have reported going to another realm as a sentient being without a physical body.  I read books by physicians interested in explaining their patients’ reports of these experiences after being diagnosed as clinically 'dead' or in a state of prolonged unconsciousness.  I decided that the only explanation of my experience was that it is a 'shared death experience.' which has been described in the literature. 
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1982  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         consulting on patient who was imminently dying.  I was in very good health  the patient whom I was attending was imminently dying  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   conscious of all around me, but my body did not exist.  

  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the initial half of the experience.   
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I felt outside of Time.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was floating in a rather surreal environment. There was  no sound.  I saw everything exactly as in reality, but it seemed inaccessible.  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not recall sound of any kind during the experience  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       surprise predominantly, as I was aware that I was in my familiar surroundings but that I was only present ‘consciously’.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I am a graduate of Yale Divinity School.  Upon reflection post-degree and extensive reading of spiritual and NDE literature post-retirement, I support all denominations, faiths as I believe in commonality of being and that creation is the primary site of worship and divine-human interface.  

  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel, like St. Francis of Assisi, that nature is the primary cathedral.  When retired we moved to wilderness of MT mountains, where I am surrounded by nature. trees, animals of many varieties, with whom I interact non-verbally and who give me pleasure, company and validation that all of living creation is connected as I experienced after an acute illness a year ago.  
  
What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   q.v. above  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I had never had depersonalization, derealization, or out of body experiences before this experience or since.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?                   

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     It validated my subjective experiences and impressions.  I still review mystical accounts carefully, but am not affected by deniers who discount them out of hand.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was reduced to a point of consciousness, w/o a sentient body, floating 3+ feet above the ground level.  When in the elevator, I was on ceiling looking at other passengers below me.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  the entire sequence of events that took approx. 10 min. is seared into my consciousness.  I have had other mystical experiences that are equally or more distinctly as present today as they were at the time of occurrence years ago.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have had non-ordinary and psychic events before and after this experience  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    ~35 years afterwards. I shared with Drs. Bruce Greyson and Jim Tucker.  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read Dr. Raymond Moody's account  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Just as I had at the time of the experience.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You might ask about other mystical experiences.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephanie_m_sde.html