{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephanie_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephanie L NDE 2887","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephanie L NDE 2887  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephanie L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1005  Stephanie L NDE  2887  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It was not like I went anywhere, but more like a realm opening up right where I was that is there but in a normal state I'm not able to see it. I was looking into this blue vastness when a beautiful being appeared. He looked a little like Jesus but at the time it wasn't important who he was, he was all love, the kind of love that has everything in it (not the sappy sentimental kind) everything in it meaning it was solid, supportive, permanent but very much in the moment (yet no fear that it would disappear). I felt concern, care, total sensitivity from him, he was not asserting himself in any dominating way yet I knew he was all there was, everything was part of or came from him. He was indescribably sweet, sincere, responsive to me, and there was even humor (like he was saying surprise, surprise). He looked at me as if he was looking at something totally precious and dear to him and I couldn't take my eyes away, I never felt love like that, complete love with no demands, just a total recognition that I was wonderful and he knew it all along and wanted me to know it. Slowly it faded and I was back in the room, or rather the room returned to its normal state and I felt so, so grateful I had been given this gift, this knowledge. The expression, 'fell on my knees' - I now knew what it meant and how it felt, thank you, thank you, thank you.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1992  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain       Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I fell in my home and hit my head. Later someone told me I stopped breathing for a significant period of time and was revived by my Japanese neighbor using pressure points.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I saw more completely. Normally I think I see richness and variety of feeling and experiencing but none of it is for me, nothing bodes well for me, I can't make it happen for me and I am excluded, I am ashamed. During this experience I saw I was a part of the wonder and the beauty and I was not just 'looking on', I was in on it, a part of.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I looked into the being's face and saw the love.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was more like thought transference than hearing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Described above.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and gratitude and feeling my 'suspicions' that there was more than meets the eye were confirmed.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Unity Church or liberal Christian church  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Unity Church, liberal Christianity'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is meaning in the universe and in life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I LOVE more completely and unconditionally, with more compassion. I am more real and less censoring, less rejecting of faults.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The complete, total, and unconditional love from the being.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Love, I have never felt loved.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. Person I told was enthralled and wish it had happened to her.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Raymond Moody's book about the children but wasn't sure about it.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     The longer I was away from when it happened, I started having doubts like maybe it was a head injury or maybe a 'psychiatric' symptom, or, as my psychiatrist said, maybe some chemical reaction. But no, I always come back to the feeling, it was so intense I know I didn't have it in me to contrive or hallucinate or imagine. It was a total gift.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     When I am clear and just happen to think of it, yes, it was real. If my natural skeptic sets in and begins to take it apart and try to make sense of it and tell myself I fool myself so I'll feel better about life, the experience gets diluted or tainted by my doubting mind. I change the subject, and I always come back to its truth and beauty (OF THE EXPERIENCE).  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My life was transformed, I stopped taking drugs. I was a drug addict - but I wasn't on drugs when I had the experience. I went to treatment for two years and got well because I know now life has a purpose.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephanie_l_nde.html