{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephane_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephane R NDE 5406","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephane R NDE 5406  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephane R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3039 Stephane R NDE 5406  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was completely outside time, so I can't say how long the experience lasted. There was a single intense light with no way of fixing its direction or duration. This light was not a blinding light. I myself was a comparable light, partially detached from the other light; I find it difficult to convey this in words. I had a conversation with the light but we did not talk in words. The light emitted a numberless multitude of voices, of incomparable perfection by earthly standards. These voices, all in chorus, sang a single word, which was 'Alleluia', and the length of the chanting of this single word, sung a single time, is quite impossible to express by any measure of earthly time.

This one word, 'Alleluia' being sung was at the same time an immense transference of revelations concerning me, the creation, the scriptures, the sense and goal of my own life, and on life and death. When the experience came to an end, I woke up in the resuscitation unit with the conviction that I should not talk about it, but that I also had a duty to do so, that the way in which I should speak about it would come to me in the course of earthly life. At no time in the experience did I see the earth, nor my body, nor any dear ones who had predeceased me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  15 novembre 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury  'Accident automobile avec traumatisme crânien et coma immédiat, convulsions.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   There was cranial trauma, coma, respiratory arrest, convulsions, and tetanus, all necessitating a helicopter evacuation to a resuscitation unit. The medical opinion given to my family was that my life was in danger.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout the experience both my state of consciousness and my lucidity were above what one has in earthly life, and I don't think I exaggerate if I say that one cannot imagine such a high state of consciousness mediated by a human brain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the experience both my state of consciousness and my lucidity were above what one has in earthly life, and I don't think I exaggerate if I say that one cannot imagine such a high state of consciousness mediated by a human brain.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Quite simply, time and space did not exist and had no more meaning. At no point did I think about these baseless notions.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Not having seen anything material nor felt any physical sensation, I cannot reply precisely. I did not perceive with eyes, ears, etc. It was completely different from the 5 human senses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear with my auditory human sense. I cannot define this more exactly as it seems to me that words do not allow it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   There was only this light without any notion of time or space. I myself was an associated light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Plenitude, happiness, duty, perfect accord, pleasant and legitimate submission.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Certitude de l'existance d'un être suprême sans pouvoir l'identifier à une religion, ni pouvoir le définir ou en parler'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know now why I had a profound conviction that the spiritual dimension and the supreme being existed, and why no religion was perfectly fitted to my beliefs.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Parfaite compréhension des livres de la bible mais grand désaccord avec toutes les sectes religieuses et leurs doctrines, incluant les grandes religions. Totale adhérence à l'encien testament et en le Christ, le nouveau testament. Conscience de la mauvaise interprétation des écritures par les vivants.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know now why I had a profound conviction that the spiritual dimension and the supreme being existed, and why no religion was perfectly fitted to my beliefs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had absolute knowledge but without being able to conceive the whole nature of the Supreme Being, though I was aware of its existence. I don't really know what to say. I would like to put it like this, 'He is more than real but beyond conception, whatever the level of knowledge, even absolute knowledge.'

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know now why I had a profound conviction that the spiritual dimension and the supreme being existed, and why no religion was perfectly fitted to my beliefs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The way the light and I communicated, the encounter with myself, and the goal of the experience and its necessary nature is difficult to express.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have the ability to converse with the deepest self (soul) without recourse.  I can reflect and have the ability to be amazed by everything, as well as that of seeing the immaturity, (the un-awakened state) of those around me, the weakness of their behavior, and their dependence on the material and their inability to be in awe of it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. Most significant was the transmission of a profound knowledge of things, my instant awakening to the truth, and the certainty of my duty to pass it on.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew that they existed without being able to be certain of their truth. I knew that those who had them saw deceased beings, sometimes angels, and a light at the end of a tunnel.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt like an inestimable privilege, already programmed, which is the goal of my existence in this life. Something inevitable and which I myself had approved, something I had chosen of my free will.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     On the 5th, 6th and 7th March 2012, I was seized with an irresistible desire to write about my experience. On my computer, I composed a series of texts, ranging from poetry to philosophy, and even fundamental revelations on the scriptures, life and death, spirituality and everything, which is revealed in the state of awareness where I found myself during the experience. I also have an intimate conviction that the content of this document was dictated to me. It is 50 pages long and I composed it without understanding it until I re-read it completely. This all necessitated three testing sessions over 3 days. It was a bit like automatic writing, but on a PC keyboard. Up to now, only one other and most trusted person has read it. The comments he made were that it is extremely well-composed, fascinating and that it has changed his life definitively.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have saved the document and printed it. I have bound it and I know it will be published one day. Perhaps not by me, but I know the work I had to do has been completed.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Do you have the feeling of a persistent link with the beyond?  Do you remember your dreams more often since the experience?  Are they more precise, and do you understand them better than before the experience?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephane_r_nde.html