{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephanie_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephanie A NDE 7971","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephanie A NDE 7971  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephanie A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4131 Stephanie A NDE 7971  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

  37 Seconds: Dying Revealed Heaven's Help--A Mother's Journey&nbsp; &nbsp; 						  					  				      Click here for more information. 

 E-mail: Stephanie@highwall.com
  				      
						 Intuition told me I would die. No one believed it would save my life.

I was pregnant with my second child and at 20 weeks pregnant I was diagnosed with a placenta previa.  At that time I told my husband, who is a PHD economist from University of Chicago, that I have a bad feeling about this.  He told me to calm down and said, 'Let's not jump to conclusions here.'  From that moment on, I had detailed visions about the birth.  I saw that I would hemorrhage, need a hysterectomy, the baby would be fine, I would have organs combine, I would need to be put under general anesthesia and I would die. I told everyone.  The visions were incessant and anyone who would listen to me, I would tell them.  I spoke to my doctors, had ultrasounds, blood work and even sought out specialists to help save my life. I was panicked.  I spoke to gynecologist/oncologist and said I am going to need a hysterectomy.  I believe my placenta previa will turn into an accreta.  Accreta is where the placenta embeds itself too deeply into the uterus.  The doctor thought I was a little neurotic but he did an MRI to calm my nerves.  The MRI was negative for an accreta. In fact, EVERY test was negative.  My husband thought I was crazy.  My doctors thought I was hormonal.  My friends were scared to bring up the subject.  I was running out of people to tell my crazy foreboding story to so I posted it on Facebook to see if anyone had my blood type.  I wrote and sent out goodbye letters.  

One of my last ditch efforts came when I had a phone consultation with an anesthesiologist.  The doctor answered the call and I told her all of my premonitions.  She said that she had never heard a patient speak like this before.  Especially one who had a baby before and who sought out specialists to help save her life.  Unbeknownst to me, she flagged my file and incorporated extra blood monitors and a crash cart in the operating room at the time of delivery.  And then D-Day came.  When I was 36 weeks pregnant, I was wheeled into delivery. I delivered a healthy and happy baby boy and three seconds later, I was dead.  Because of the crash cart and blood,  I was brought back to life 37 seconds later. That one phone call to the anesthesiologist saved my life.  

I had suffered an amniotic fluid embolism. This condition is rare; 1 in 40,000 risk of amniotic cells getting into the mother's bloodstream.  If the mother happens to be allergic to the amniotic cells, they go into a type of anaphylactic shock.  In most of these cases, the women do not survive.  I flat lined for 37 seconds.  They resuscitated me and then I started to go into disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).  My kidneys failed, the lungs collapsed; I had a cardiac arrest and and my bladder collapsed.  I was given 60 units of O Negative blood. They called in the gynecologist/oncologist who I met with 2 months before.  He performed a hysterectomy.  The pathology on the uterus showed an accreta had started to form that was invisible to the MRI, leaving a microscopic hole, and allowing the amniotic cells to enter the bloodstream.  I was put under general anesthesia, the baby was perfect and I had died.   ALL of my premonitions came true.

At the time of delivery I could not remember anything, let alone the the subsequent medically induced six day coma.  But I ended up doing regression therapy to take me back into those moments that I was dead.  I videotaped those moments and I talk about everything I saw happening in the operating room AFTER my eyes were taped shut.  The doctors and my husband were shocked. It was accurate down to what the doctors were THINKING, but not saying at the time.  I was in shock.  And then more opened up.  I understood I had help from the other side.  I understood why I had weird cravings of cigarettes during this pregnancy, especially when I have never smoked a day in my life. I understood that I could not have possibly known that many details of the future without help.. and it all ended up pretty clear after I finished my therapy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  05/30/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I had an amniotic fluid embolism at the time of birth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I videotaped my therapy where I described everything in the operating room. I describe who called the code, which nurse did the CPR, the first crash cart didn't work but the second one did.  That my doctor kept saying, 'this can't be happening.'  My anesthesiologist was by my feet.   I was able to take the tapes back to the doctors. They confirmed it was 100% accurate.  Even my doctor said, 'I didn't say this can't be happening, but I was saying it in my head.'  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Just PRIOR to it happening.  I separated from my body because I knew what was about to happen and I didn't want to be in my body when it did happened.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I didn't want to die. I KNEW it was going to happen. I wanted to live and be with my family. I wasn't ready to go, and I fought hard to help save my life and no one believed me. I was resolved that it was going to happen and I was scared to death, wanting to get through this as quickly as I could.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     So much download at the time. Everything seemed to be happening in real time... but I was down for 6 days. I felt like I got a ton of information during this experience.  It felt as if I was living in a dream, when I was able to recall all of it.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw everything brighter, and warmer.  I took in a million things at once.  I could see what was happening down the hall, in a Heaven/-like place while I saw hundreds of deceased spirits and what was going on with my daughter in another room, along with everything happening in the operating room after I flat-lined.  It was all so vivid. I could taste, smell, and hear at a level that was thousands of feet of vibration above where I used to feel.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything and everyone. I could hear conversations in two dimensions and in several different places all at once.  It might have been 37 seconds, but I felt like I downloaded a year's worth of information in that time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I saw a shooting star.  I was not a tunnel, but that might be something else.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Uncles, aunts, grandmother, deceased relatives of friends and people I had never met before.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a shooting star that was a bright light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A heavenly vibration. It was like a beach with warm sand and clouds around. I never saw feet; never looked down and didn't want confirmation I was actually seeing ghosts.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared out of my mind and sad.  Having post-trauma didn't help.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     YES!  Exactly!  My entire life flashed before me and I realized all of my experiences leading up to this moment finally made sense. They were real.  I had seen people dying in the near future and seen how it would happen.  Then it happened days later. I felt people's pain in my own body and didn't know why I was uncomfortable until I learned and thought 'that's a coincidence.'  I now no longer believe in coincidences and I understand this vibration has always been there. I accept it now… I don't fight it ANYMORE.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     The fact that things I had experienced in my life, prior to this foreboding experience, were then validated and tangible. I compartmentalized them because I was afraid of being labeled a freak or be attacked for these thoughts that later came true about people. So it scared me and I didn't know if it was real. Through this experience though, I realized it was real.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Months before I died, I saw it happen. All of it.  I just didn't see myself surviving it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I fought my way back. I fought my way to stay before I left.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Jewish   I have always had a belief in G-d. The presence of someone else helped me in this circumstance.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I KNOW and believe in G-d and the existence of the Afterlife and the power of prayer/healing 100%.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Jewish   I am much more spiritual and a=have strong ties to the metaphysical now. I was intuitive and on low voltage as a child, then I went asystolic and now I am on high voltage, seeing things I never knew possible. With many doctors and witnesses to it.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believe in G-d.  I believe in the Afterlife. But I am a researcher and I need things that are tangible to believe 100% in them.  I had faith but I never experienced anything quite like what I had.  Anything I did beforehand felt more coincidental than anything else did. MY NDE could not be ignored. What came out of it made me believe that even though it was improbable, it was the truth.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Moments matter differently.  I am much more empathetic and compassionate to complete strangers.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I had seen how people were going to die or that they had been sexually abused or they had health issues before they knew it was happening to them.  I felt it in my body.  I would tell them and people would run away. Then they would come true, days later and it scared me.  I thought it was a coincidence and I shut it down.  I didn't want to believe it was real. It was scary and I didn't know why I was seeing it. I chose to not see anymore.  I couldn't ignore it anymore when it was me.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I now see this vibration every day in strangers, my family and in my life.  I don't believe in coincidences.  When people cross my path at that specific time and that specific place, it is for a purpose.  We are connected somehow.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I feel like Divine Intervention helped save my life, which translates to me that G-d was directly involved with sending angels to follow and take care of me.  I did not see G-d.  But the miracle of surviving had G-d's hands all over it.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Months later, I understood what I needed to do and how I needed to do it.  I started writing.  Also, working with the medical community as a patient and doctor advocate, talking out intuition and the realness of that intuition.  How it should be taken seriously. From both ends.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     In my career, I spent 27 years producing television.  I understood, in that moment, that my career was a set-up for communicating (on a greater level) the messages I brought back and how I deliver them at medical conferences, legislative conferences, the media… I know how to get out the word.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I had help during my pregnancy.  There is NO WAY I could have seen the details of what was going to happen three months later, without someone showing it to me.  Then I realized when I flat-lined and my uncle was there when I crossed over.  It made sense why I was craving cigarettes.  My uncle was the only one who smoked around me EVER.  I have asthma and everyone else was polite enough not to smoke around me.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     There probably are, just not thinking of it in this moment.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The recovery part and dealing with the fact that I could no longer deny or compartmentalize what I had been feeling prior to this experience.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     A desperate love for my husband and my children and a love that my uncle and my family on the other side were there to help me get through this as quickly and calmly as possible.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Life is more serious and I can no longer have frivolous conversation.  My career has significantly changed direction 100% after this happened.   I have become an accidental medium, seeing things I cannot explain and strangers I am encountering have validated them.  A world opened up when I crossed over and this portal is now forever ajar.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I can't relate to people who are not real, open and compassionate.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see dead people everywhere and share them with others as I see them.  I see them in moments of people's past, and describe them to those people and understand immediately what they are trying to say; all of which are validated by the person in front of me... All new to me and I’m learning how to deal with it since this portal has opened.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Without the experience, I wouldn't be where I am today.  I am extremely grateful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three months for the American Society of Anesthesiologists.  Then six months later with Good Morning America.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was freaked out that I saw it happen before it happened.  No one believed me. They were all in shock after it happened. So I already knew it was real.  But I was a little scared at how accurate it was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Just seeing it happening and feeling it in others.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In regards to question #13: When I was with family on the other side but mostly. No, because I wanted to be with my husband and children. I wasn’t ready to go.    </h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephanie_a_nde.html