{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephane_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephane B Possible NDE 3366","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephane B Possible NDE 3366  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephane B Possible NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1467 Stephane B Possible NDE 3366  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was an unbearable pain, level 12/10. I sat on passenger seat with a water ring below my bums to somewhat lower the pain. I was cold and all my body shook. An extreme weariness overwhelmed me, something I had never known, even at illness times. I closed my eyes to try to sleep and at a moment, I felt I was going somewhere else.

I saw myself in a heavenly landscape, there was clay ground, a beautiful blue sky, grass, slight and tepid breeze, and there was an olive tree next to me. My grandfather, dead since 1988, was sitting there, quietly playing the lute. He told me, sit down there dear Steph, you'll see we're alright there. I asked him where we were, he answered that I knew it, I was in Heaven but I should not worry. I felt huge pleasure emotion pervade me, I felt happy and free and about to cry for joy. I had tears in my eyes for so much beauty and for seeing my grandfather. Then, deceased people came to visit me and they called my name, saying that I should come because you felt good there and I belonged there. I belonged among them; they outstretched their arms towards me. I saw dozens of dead family members. There were other people I did not know, but who also outstretched their arms to me. I felt like I would cry for joy, saying to myself that death was so beautiful. I wanted to die now, driven by joy and happiness. Pain had disappeared; I felt no pain at all then.

I stammered out to my girlfriend, they are all there. She woke me up then, but it was hard for me to get out from sleepiness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  28/10/2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  IllnessSurgery-related  Abcès de la marge anale avec fièvre  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had a lot of fever and immense unbearable pain in my left bum. On my arrival to hospital, the nurses told me that after forty-eight hours without surgery, I could have died from blood poisoning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert when I saw my grandfather sitting below the olive tree. I was alert and conscious at a very high level.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Each image was as if it were everlasting but passed swiftly. Weird and indescribable feeling.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were dead people I knew or not. They told me to come with them because you are all right there and it was time for me if I wanted to. Our fate is written and you have to accept death.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Oui j'ai visité le paradis, c'était un paysage avec de la terre battue, un ciel bleu, un vent tiède et un olivier à côté de moi. Le temps et l'atmosphère était délicieux et donnait envie d'y rester.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I intensely felt like I would cry for joy and freedom. I wanted to be with the dead people. I wanted to feel Heaven around me, sun, warmth, tepid wind, listen to the music my grandfather played.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   chrétien on

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   croyant en une vie après la vie

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Earthly world is unimportant, what matters is to do good for others. Materialism is nothing, you have to live happy, do good and not be attached to things but to people. Live for the happiness of being alive, letting your fate give you guidance.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I saw my grandfather moved me a lot because he hugely mattered to me, and I'm sure he's my Guardian Angel because he told me so before he died. He virtually raised me as a child. He was a Spaniard; he fought the 39/45 war and fled Spain to join the Republican Army.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Apparently, it just lasted a few minutes, but for me it lasted hours. They believed me and were surprised, but they understood that because of this message, my girlfriend drove me to the hospital, until then she indeed hesitated to drive me to the hospital.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read a lot of NDEs, and I lived quite many things similar to the accounts I read.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe it was real because I saw and heard him like he talked to me when alive.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's the feeling I got from it that makes me say the experience was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Death does not scare me anymore, because I know now that death is beautiful and you must accept it as obviousness.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephane_b_possible_nde.html