{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stella_nde.html","mytitle":"Stella NDE3697","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stella NDE3697  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stella NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1708 Stella NDE 3697  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was crossing the street and lost my sandal. I turned back to fetch it without thinking and I was hit head on by a car. It was the most memorable blow of my life and that was nothing compared to what was coming!

I saw myself rolling into a small ditch at the side of the street and knew that I was very badly injured: maybe I was dying? As soon as I asked that, I was catapulted into the inside of an ambulance that was supposed to save me. I saw the nurse lose her ring, the ring belonged to her mother, and I saw where the ring fell. Then the driver lost his way. At that point, I figured that I would never get to the hospital, but I was overjoyed! I thought, 'But is it already over? How lucky! Wowwww!' and I entered the tunnel (which I strangely seemed to know well) and went forward at a vertiginous speed towards home, without any intention of stopping to observe everything in the tunnel- I just wanted to go home.

The tunnel was semi-transparent and I saw points of light like distant stars becoming rays of irregular lights, like the headlights on a car that is speeding down a curved road. My speed kept growing until the light could no longer reach me and I saw that the tunnel was one giant curve, but a curve that was barely discernible, yet I could feel it. Then I was home. The light surrounded me and I was in eternity, every question I asked had an instant clear response, even if I didn't understand every answer. The gentle song of many voices surrounded me but I couldn't understand the song. I walked barefoot in an undulating field on soft grass and not far away an oak tree stood out. It was more imposing than anything I had ever seen, a brilliant green like life. (I could write a whole book about that tree alone but I will stop here.)

Beneath the tree a young boy was waiting for me, he was beautiful and dignified. He invited me to take a rest, having me take a seat on a wooden bench at a table on top of which were bread and red wine (my father had made wine on earth so I know it well and love the red wine). After I had eaten, he said, 'Everything you see is like looking at clouds.  You see a little dog, but you know it's a cloud. Now you see yourself at home but know that you are almost at home, you must return.' I answered with a dry and distinct 'No.' I didn't understand why I had to leave when I felt so good here. He objected, 'Don't you miss your mother and father?' I said, 'No, soon they'll be here and I will see them again!' (Time meant nothing: it does not exist.) With extreme love and patience, he showed me that I still have so much to learn and he showed me my life as though it were a journey.

I could choose various paths but I had to get from A to B. The important events, my goals were symbolized by marble statues, while others were made from fresh clay and still malleable, still time to make them into something else. I understood that the point is not when (time does not exist) but that all the conditions must be satisfied and the most seminal of these is free will. A series of free will choices and reactions to events determines the conditions to find the destination or to miss it. It is so free that one can always try and try again: it doesn't matter how long it takes or where it happens, time and space do not exist, the only important thing is to 'meet the conditions' to arrive at the proper destination. I hadn't reached any such place yet. Notwithstanding all this explanation, I still refused to go back. So he took me in his arms and showed me the river from which there would be no return, and all the cities that existed beyond the river. He told me I could wait in eternity and that I shouldn't be afraid because he had fulfilled all the promises. He told me many things, but I was determined to remain cuddled in his arms and lulled by his voice, and I didn't listen. I looked with childish curiosity at his ring. It was bas-relief with three curved lines that intersected and formed a triangle.  There was a unique signing with a pen that could write until infinity. I heard 'Now you can return in peace.' I refused with all the stubbornness that a child is capable of. 'So you'll have to speak to my Father,' he said.

I wasn't at all afraid and very determined, I accepted. He showed me the road. I would have to go through a labyrinth of hedges, but I was too desperate and I did everything not to go! Whereupon I traversed the hedge in a direct line cutting and scratching myself with a lot of pain, knowing full well that this hedge was the only thing there that could seriously hurt me. Then I was picked up by 'the loving arms of the Father.' He called me by my real name (which means 'little monkey full of curiosity and rebellion') and I recognized him as 'my GOD' with whom I had 'played' so much. What happened next is so personal that I will only refer to the ending, needing to say up front that when I lied I knew that He knew, but I tried anyway - 'So let's see, are you ready: do you love mankind?'

ME: Yes.

HIM: More than yourself?

ME: Probably - yes - in theory yes.

HIM: So much that you would give up your life?

ME: Yes - yes unconditionally!

HIM: We haven't understood one another. Do you love me?

ME: So much that I would stay for eternity.

HIM: So if you love me and you love mankind as much as you love me -go back, and my Will be done for their good!

There, he tricked me for the good of all!! 'The problem with arguing with Him is that He is always right!' I thought, but he heard my thought and together we laughed our heads off (I don't know how else to describe it). I hadn't chosen.  I could go back to earth or away from there.

I was desperately crying and turned towards the youth who asked me not to remember because the homesickness could have done me harm and that I would remember my experience as necessary, but I rarely take advice or obey and therefore I suffer to this day.

It seemed that I wouldn't be able to fulfill my destiny in life and I was filled with terror! I begged the youth: 'Please, I beseech you. I know I won't find my way. I beg you; I don't want to disappoint Him! I beg you that when I fail that you grab me by the hair and bring me back here! I will formally renounce all freedom in that moment: take me even if I say no.' He answered 'I have faith in you' and I wanted to deck him but he stopped me. Then he smiled and promised 'Yes I will intervene. But I will be with you every day until the end.'

In truth, the only part of the promise that mattered to me was the first part.

The journey back was very painful in every sense and I don't want to relive it now. I can say that I re-entered my body as though I was putting on a glove, first the fingers then finally the rest of the hand. Then came the intense pain of the body and I awoke on my own from the coma (as the brain monitor showed). My brain was practically hanging out of my skull and I still have such a scar that they want to hospitalize me when they take x-rays. Yet I'm okay, and according to the doctors, I came out of it due to the 'extraordinary capacity and reactions of children.'

When I came out of my coma, I was yelling at all the doctors: 'Assassins!

You don't understand! I can die here! Make me go back! Damn you all! Help me die!' I only became calm when I saw that first nurse who had lost her ring and I told her where to find it. And so with an enormous effort I began to remember everything, and I mean everything: even the stuff I shouldn't have. The doctors were very worried about me and my state of mind and ordered psychological support and they also sent me to a group that investigates NDEs. Today at forty years of age, I can say that I had absolutely no understanding of how right He was. Thank you Father, whatever your name is (I can't manage to say it).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  primavera 1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Other coma primo stadio(?) per 120sec.  Auto accident, head injury, coma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Always.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Always.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     That had no reason and did not exist. Space was enormous, and at the same time just a single geometric point: entirely visible and also infinitely huge. Il tempo.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     360 degree vision, also I could sense things and people as they truly are (hard to explain). The colors were very vivid, but also 'semantic' in the sense that they had meaning and scope like a word in a book (I don't understand this either).

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same difference between 'mono' and 'stereo', I also sensed the essence, the reality or truth and the emotions expressed - difficult to explain. I know, but the words do not exist. Excuse me for my ignorance.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I traveled through a tunnel that wasn't completely dark: there were little lights that appeared like rays because I was going so fast. Like the headlights of cars that are speeding. The tunnel wasn't straight, it was curved, a full curve yet hard to discern.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A very patient boy with whom I spoke at length, his Father tricked me and made me return.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was beautiful after the journey and I knew perfectly well where I was headed: home.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     ero in un prato ondulato e mi fu mostrata una città oltre a un fiume,che però era una serie di città(anche se "città" non definisce bene).Purtroppo ero così presa a coccolarmi in braccio a quel ragazzo e a riposarmi,che capii solo che era ciò che ci aspettava,una sorta di futuro o promessa o...ero troppo stanca e disinteressata. All'epoca non mi impotava molto dell'umanità così violenta e inaffidabile...

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Liberation from encumbrance and 'how wonderful! I can't believe it! It's done! Thank God!' this is what I thought, why is it a mystery to me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Being born, my mother, father, the cold of winter, the yelling and abuse at home. The trips to the countryside where I communed with 'God' and who was in everything, but also with me and above all else Alive! Not like the one who is on the cross. I saw the 'adults' killing their 'God' and then crying about it: I hated adults and saw them as violent and untrustworthy. But it was explained to me that on earth there are many who are loved, and my own lack of love was the principle reason I was made to return. I was shown that I had a lot to learn and that it was all necessary, but I don't remember. Everything has a reason, but I can't remember which.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Two unwanted pregnancies and one son, my husband and then things that concern mankind, but I must and want to keep these to myself: they serve only to remind me what really happened. In all these years I have only spoken of these things here on this site and have no intentions of saying more.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The boundary is the river: if I had crossed it I would have finally arrived home, protected from every danger, and for me it meant getting away from mankind.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'rifiutavo di entrare in chiesa o di sentirne parlare perchè impaurita da tonaca nera e da ''quel morto appeso'''

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I didn't want to enter church because the priest resembled the dark man, and according to me, he's the one who killed his own God and who knew what else he was capable of - and directed at me! After many years of theological struggle I accepted the Roman Catholic religion of the apostles because it seems to come the closest to what I experienced even if it falls short.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   poi capii e a fatica divenni cristiana cattolica

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I didn't want to enter church because the priest resembled the dark man, and according to me, he's the one who killed his own God and who knew what else he was capable of - and directed at me! After many years of theological struggle I accepted the Roman Catholic religion of the apostles because it seems to come the closest to what I experienced even if it falls short.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   As soon as I arrived I knew everything; all I had to do was ask but I didn't understand every answer, nor can I remember every one. Above all I learned that it's not when that is important (time does not exist) but only that all the conditions are met and that free will be used. It's a series of free will choices and reactions to events that determines the conditions to find the destination or to miss it. It is so free that one can always try to try again: it doesn't matter how long it takes or where it happens, time and space do not exist, the only important thing is to 'meet the conditions' to arrive at the proper destination. You can make a mistake and then try again. What I learned is to forgive and to become humble. And I saw my future in a series of statues: the ones in marble had finished their duties, or were the things that I had to accomplish; the ones in clay were the options, or choices, or electives, and for each choice a different road, but the ultimate journey was the one towards the marble statues. I don't remember why.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I hated them all! Now I love them so much that I suffer, or rejoice not for them but with them. I no longer can stay apart from others because I know they are a part of me and me a part of them, but most of all I know how much He loves them, whoever He is in reality.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Because I felt like I was home and who was the person with whom I was speaking.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I dream about/remember the disasters created by mankind. And help comes to me otherwise I would hate people all over again. It's hard because I live here among them and feel things three times as strongly as those going through the terrible happenings feel. It's not good to create marble statues because one might not reach them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was meaningful, even the aromas, sounds, colors - everything was so filled with meaning that it goes on to infinity.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right afterwards, after I had yelled 'Assassins, let me go back!' I talked to a psychologist and a group that studied NDEs. Then nothing for thirty years:  I was afraid that I was crazy. I kept putting away accounts of NDEs and not looking at them until finally I read them and found similarities with my experience. It was when I began reliving the event and trying to frame it in Cartesian concepts of the universe that I had dreams of marble statues, and then I gave up!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Before I entered the tunnel I saw that the ambulance nurse lost her ring and where it fell: and I told her where to find it without her having asked about it. I also knew that the ambulance had gotten lost in a neighboring county and knew who the driver was without ever having met him. I was brought to the hospital in a private automobile. These two facts piqued the interest of the NDE research group.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I consider it real because there are a lot of records, and I really didn't want it to be.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was ordered to forget the experience because it could have caused me pain but I don't obey orders very well, unfortunately! Plus the memories are too beautiful! Would it have been better had I listened? Would they have gotten angry?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Since this questionnaire is long and sometimes one doesn't have time or energy to write everything at once it would be nice to come back and do another one.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stella_nde.html