{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1star_nde.html","mytitle":"Star NDE 6","mylang":"de"}
          	        Star NDE 6  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Star NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1516 Star NDE 6  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Events surrounding NDE: I had not been feeling well for a couple of weeks. I had been running a 'low temp' and had 'cold' like symptoms. I continued to go to work. One afternoon, when I got home from work, I started 'shaking' and 'shivering'. I could not get warm. I went upstairs to go to bed and I must have had at least seven or eight blankets on me. I just could not get warm.

All of a sudden, everything went 'black.' Total blackness that I can't even describe, it was so black. I didn't see anything, but I head a very loud 'rasping' like sound. I then found myself out on this beautiful field. It was bright, sunshine day. I can't describe the vivid colors and how beautiful it was. I was still shaking. I could not cross the field. For some reason, I knew that I could not. Way across the field (and I would use 'miles' to describe it), there was a beautiful carousel with several beautiful women on it. They were all dressed in light pastel colors. Dresses that were 'floor-length.' It's hard to describe. Light material type of dresses, and they all had 'parasols' (you know, they look like umbrellas, but they're not). One lady got off the carousel and came over to me. She took my hand, and I immediately stopped shaking and I felt GREAT! No words were spoken.

She then slowly shook her head 'no' and let go of my hand. But it was so gentle and loving. I immediately started shaking again and screaming for her to come back to me, (she went back across the field). The blackness closed in again, and I heard the loud rasping noise. The next thing I knew was that I was on the way to the hospital. I had double pneumonia with a temperature of one hundred and five.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Double pneumonia - I was extremely sick, and did not gain full strength for about six months. I really don't know if I stopped breathing during the experience, it would have been before I arrived at the hospital.

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very consciousness and alert as to what was happening during this NDE. It did not seem like I was in any type of 'dream state'.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Only the 'rasping' noise when it was totally black.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I think the 'blackness' was the tunnel. It was totally black.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Several ladies on the carousel (far, far across the field). One lady walked over to me and took my hand. I did not know any of the ladies. My sight was incredible.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I 'just' came out onto this beautiful field.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As I said, the 'field' (the only word I can use to describe this beautiful place), it was so beautiful and the colors, even though 'pastel' were so gorgeous, the sunshine and beauty of the place cannot be adequately described.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wellness, love, beauty.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Definitely, Yes! Such a long story :). If there is a 'hell' on this earth, I've been through it. My son having been brutally molested for over four years by a pedophile, my best friend - my father, dying slowly of cancer. Yet, even though, I cried and cried, no 'real' hatred happened. Where was the hatred? Through the past eighteen years, I became spiritual, rather than religious. I believe in life after death, whereas before (having been a Baptist), I believed you went to sleep until Judgment Day. My belief system has totally changed. After my father's death, I fought the urge for three years to work within a hospice.  It was only after hearing Dannion Brinkley on a Sunday afternoon, that I made my decision to call the VNA and become a volunteer. When I did that, I felt like a 'ton' had been lifted from my shoulders. Hard to explain, but I know now that that 'urge' was meant for me to do what I am now doing. I read everything I could get my hands on regarding 'death and dying.' I studied and studied. It's like I 'drank' all the information I could get. I even became a certified CNA so I could help my hospice patients more.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The colors and beauty and love surrounding the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Hard question to answer. At the time, I've never heard of NDE's, and everyone I spoke with said it was the 'fever' of the pneumonia. Over the years (nothing happened immediately), I felt myself changing. Six months after this experience, I developed severe panic/phobias. (I am still on meds for this.) But, I can 'sense' when something bad is going to happen. I can sense when someone is around me. I can feel the 'touch' of Angels when I need the reassurance. My dad came to me after his death (another story). Even though it's been eighteen years, things are still 'slowly' getting stronger with me. It's kind of scary.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best: FEELING GREAT! Worst: Making me 'go home'.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Until I met friends who were 'new age' and more 'spiritual' type of friends who believed me. When I spoke to others, I was told it was a hallucination from the fever, not real, forget about it, a dream, etc. etc.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Even though I'm still on meds (several of them) because of 'emotional' issues, I've never had the experience or any part of it that I did eighteen years ago. I've had pneumonia several times since, and it has not happened.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, except that I remember ever single detail, eighteen years later.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1star_nde.html