{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stefan_nde.html","mytitle":"Stefan NDE 877","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stefan NDE 877  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stefan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						363  Stefan NDE  877  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The event took place while I was sleeping, and suddenly I was aware that I had died. I was out in space, maybe sitting on a swing, and looking out into the universe.  I had total consciousness, I knew the answers to everything, why it was the way it was, and why it has to be the way it did in some cases.


I know I was thinking about the riddle of cancer, and suddenly I knew how to cure this disease with very simple means.  I know I was thinking it seemed funny that nobody had thought of this cure before, which was as self-evident as it actually was.  I knew everything about the universe, how it was once created and why it all worked the way it did. The more I thought about different aspects, the more knowledge I got.  I know I was thinking that 'what if one had this knowledge while one was still alive.'  There was no being of light that came along and showed me around or anything like that. No, you could search for all the knowledge yourself if you wanted to.


Suddenly, I heard a voice behind me saying, 'Stefan, it's not your time yet.'  I didn't see any being of light or anything like that - I just knew there was someone there. I accepted this immediately, and then asked how I could get back to earth.  The voice/being then pointed to earth and said I should dive into the water, and then I'd come up on the other side. I saw the earth before me and started diving with my headfirst.  During the dive, I experienced the water and noticed I was on my way up to the surface.


I came up on a shore and felt born anew, happy, blissful, and redeemed. At the same instant, then I woke up and gasped for air in my bed. At this time, I still had great knowledge about life and the all. I instantly got up to get paper and pen to write it all down, but almost immediately, I forgot everything again. For several weeks after the event I tried to recreate my memories from when I was sitting up in the universe, but the story above is all I can remember.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Do not really know

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain     I 'dreamt' that I died while I was asleep.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I heard the voice, 'Stefan, it's not your time yet.'

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Nothing other than the stars.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     See above

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew everything.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.   See above

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Not particularly religious

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Not particularly religious, but on the other hand I think more about spiritual values

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     I wouldn't call myself religious, in the sense that I'd go to church or read the Bible or anything like that, and I don't do it now either! But I must admit that I think more about spiritual values now after the experience than I did before.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Both yes and no - when the experience took place everything was as clear as ever, but whereas I woke up, it was considerably more difficult to express the experience in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     Unfortunately not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       That you don't remember everything, the best, I'm not quite sure.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Earlier, I used to read quite a lot about near-death experiences of different kinds, especially the kind of experiences that turned into books. Sometimes, as I read these stories about houses and buildings in spirit worlds, I could at times feel that 'I've been there; it looks just the way it's described.' But my own experience looks different: no tunnel, no light and no being of light that welcomed me.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stefan_nde.html