{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1star_k_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Star K Probable NDE 4635","mylang":"de"}
          	        Star K Probable NDE 4635  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Star K Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2353 Star K Probable NDE 4635  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sleeping. Shortly before waking up I entered a beautiful world, I don't remember how I got there, one could think it was all a dream, but the difference was that it was much more powerful than a normal dream situation.

In the world where I was, everything was bright white and gold. There were numerous small temples. Suddenly I appeared in a small white temple with statues of Jesus, Mary etc. Beautiful music was there.  A voice called out names of saints and holy people, this went on non-stop.

All of a sudden, I appeared in another temple, there is a huge statue of Ganesh (an Indian God). It is so big and bright white, which is unusual in India. I heard a beautiful song. The last name mentioned was the name of a local saint that had lived at the spot. Ramana Maharishi - that's when I woke up.

I tried to step out of my bed but my heart was racing. Then the pulse completely disappeared and I fell on the floor and lost consciousness, everything turned black. I could not feel my body when I regained consciousness; I struggled on and was able to walk a few steps. I could not feel my pulse and thought I was dying. This went on and on until I was finally able to walk (without having any feeling in my body or experiencing my own breathing). I didn't know if I was breathing in or out, could not sense anything. Finally, I found help and they transported me to hospital where I was given heart medication to calm the heart. The pulse could be felt again. They could not find any more abnormalities in the electrocardiogram to my astonishment.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10 April 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  'the illness leptospirosis had been found.  However I had not received medication in time. On my own account I had taken penicillin, I had also experienced an unconscious period 6 weeks before the event (of 12 hours), this because someone had given me a c  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'clinical death has not been confirmed. I was alone, at home and regained consciousness.'

  I had just been in hospital for eight days to see if I still had leptospirosis, but the doctors couldn't find it. (Later they did find it again, however I received medication two months too late.) I had paralyzed vocal cords that they didn't know of, it was only found in Holland and was the cause of heavy breathing problems since the airway was partially blocked and this in a tropical country.

  I had been severely ill that week, could not feel temperature differences, or sweat, was often not able to talk or walk and fainted all the time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The last 'minutes' in the temple, when I heard the beautiful music and the name Ramana Maharishi, the song stayed with me for weeks. I had never heard it before.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was just such a powerful experience that time was simply non-existent.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More bright.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The whole world seemed to be radiant.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the temples where clearly not from this world. it was as if i had approached a gateway, aplace whre you prepair to die or where is revealed that all religions are one..since i saw statues of christ but also hindugods and buddhist elements etc.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'I believe in an afterlife/the soul. I don't believe in organized religion. However, I do enjoy rituals and meditation.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   my parents are not religious.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It was as a revelation - this reminder of all religions as Oneness.  Also the names being called out - I assumed they were saintly since I saw statues of holy people and gods - but it might have been names of soul-centering?

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am still rehabilitating after one year and have to be careful, although the heart is intact it starts racing sometimes and the head is sensitive, so I lead a quiet life now. I am also less interested in certain things, my priorities have changed.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've had ESP experiences before. I am not sure if this had increased. I was already able to give information to people, names of diseased persons etc. I am also telepathic.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The music, the love. The light. Waking up with heart problems. The big difference between the beauty I had just experienced and the incredible darkness when I lost consciousness again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The doctors just smiled and didn't take it seriously. Friends where interested. Especially since both my experiences, the unconscious period, and also the near death experience, where on special holy days which almost made it comical, even to me. The death experience happened on Good Friday. I didn't know this at the time, found out later. I had forgotten all about it since I was in India. The other experience was on Shivaratri.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have been reading about it, shown interest.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Well, since my life was still in danger and I was transported back to hospital, all was about surviving and there were too many obstacles to really feel deeply the experience but it stayed with me - especially the music, the song stayed with me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Since I was so ill and definitely struggling to stay alive there is no other explanation than that my heart had stopped beating for a view seconds or more - this happens when leptospirosis enter the heart, it is clinically proven.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't think penicillin can cause hallucinations. I was however, so weak and ill and no longer able to walk shortly before the experience. It might be that the penicillin has been too much for the body to take in.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The heart is so much more sensitive now and I am still having health problems due to this illness that I never had before. (I was very healthy.)      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1star_k_probable_nde.html