{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stan_adc.html","mytitle":"Stan ADC 31880","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stan ADC 31880  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stan ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared ADC  			2587 Stan ADC 31880  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I'm not sure who would believe this story. I'm not sure I believe it. I think of myself as a very normal person. When I was three my mother passed away. So besides pictures I have no physical memories of her. I cannot go into details regarding exactly how she passed, as I'm not a hundred percent sure but I have heard several different stories. How she passed is unimportant though. 

She has been gone thirty-five years and by most of the world, forgotten.  Around two weeks ago, I started thinking about her and felt a need to find out about her life and the questions I had regarding her death. I contacted her sister after thirty-five years and started getting answers.

Anyway, about three days before this experience I felt a presence and that she was overjoyed. I felt it as real as I breathe. It was my mother and she was very happy.

So last night my best friend and I are driving and I tell her umm I think my mom is next to me hugging me and telling me it's ok son. My mother is very, very happy. My friend's jaw dropped and she started crying. I thought she would think I was crazy, and she thought I would think she was crazy but at the exact same time, she was watching my mother die in a hospital bed with the doctors working over her. We both had chills and goose bumps at the same time. It was like a rush of energy hitting us both. I can’t believe it happened myself, so I don't expect anyone else to believe it. Yet I swear it happened and I have a witness that shared the experience with me!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1/22/2011

  NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      No sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt her and saw her in my mind and No I'm not on any drugs

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt it

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     She passed away when I was very young. No physical memory of her

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     For me, no. For my friend, she saw the hospital room, bed, doctors. Everything.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       With me she was overjoyed happy, loving. With my friend, she was dying and in pain. I think she had to show that to her so she could contact me somehow.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I'm not sure. I'm confused on what happened to us. I'm not convinced a hundred percent sure it wasn't all in my head, yet it happened to both of us at the same time.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   But I'll do the best I can to describe what happened. Either two of us both went crazy at the same time or something amazing happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There was no worst part. Except maybe that my friend had to see the bad for me to see the good.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only the person that was with me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stan_adc.html