{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stacy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Stacy M NDE 4142","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stacy M NDE 4142  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stacy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1991 Stacy M NDE 4142  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was springtime and my friend Clare who owned the horse we rode was warming up for a show at our barn. Clare asked me if I wanted to warm up too so I said sure. We were at the far end of the field and I asked my friend Kate to hold Stuart (the horse) while I got on. She held the reins and I put my foot in the stirrup, grabbed his mane, and got myself part of the way up in the saddle.

This part of my story is where the NDE I believe took place. Stuart bolted and dragged me down the field, as my foot was caught in the stirrup. When I came free, he trampled my leg and I had a grand mal seizure. I have no history of seizure prior to this. I had a sense of nothingness. I know that I SAW darkness. I know I felt like I was lying on the ground and looking up into darkness. There was a form that felt loving, a female who was looking over my body. (I just started to tear up feeling this story again.) 'She' was hovering it felt above me. She had an outline and it felt like her long wavy blond hair hung down too. Next, I felt being in the ambulance. I thought everything in the ambulance was bathed in a minty, misty, green glow of a light. I think I was concerned. Next, I was in the children's hospital and I know I was awake and different than thinking I was awake. My mom was there and I repeatedly started asking her what color she was wearing, if she was wearing purple pants.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Spring 1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury  Horseback riding accident  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was on the ground and I felt a loving female presence. (When I typed that just now it overwhelmed me with a powerful sense of crying and I just teared up again.)

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt like there was no time. Time didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have never before seen something, a scene before me bathed in a glowing pastel color green.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything around me. Silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The female above me. I didn't know her but I knew she was looking over me. (Typing that again, overwhelmed me with emotion and tears. That has never before happened in describing the experience.)

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Just the green light in the ambulance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Cared for.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Unitarian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I lost time. I remember right before it happened I knew exactly what happened. The rest is my experience which seems to only having a knowing of what happened, not a memory.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had a powerful emotional intelligence. Odd, frequent, and sometimes too weird to be true 'coincidences' or synchronicity happens to me all the time. I see the numbers of my birth date 8 24 everywhere. I seem to meet many people almost by accident, who know about and research paranormal phenomenon. I have a feeling of being very connected to people here and on the other side.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The darkness and the female hovering above me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just this month I came to terms with having had an NDE. People were supportive.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   When I was a little girl, I'd stand in front of the mirror and wonder if 'this', meaning life had all happened before and also if I was really actually getting younger instead of older.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I didn't consider it as a possibility and didn't really think about any of it very much. I was focused on healing and when I could get back to horses even though I was afraid of falling off again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   LSD.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stacy_m_nde.html