{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sreenivasa_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Sreenivasa M NDE 6409","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sreenivasa M NDE 6409  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sreenivasa M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3143 Sreenivasa M NDE 6409  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the time of attack I went completely unconscious. 

After some time, I experienced a vibrant feeling of traveling in an upward direction along a cool, translucent cylindrically shaped curving pathway. I was able to see thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands, of glowing candlelight shaped spots of light.  I saw the lights only, with no candleholders or lanterns moving freely along outside the translucent wall of the tube in which I was traveling. Every time I would go around one of the curves, I would see a human-shaped white light, appearing and disappearing, slowly blinking, about a hundred yards in front of me. It was traveling at the same speed I was.  

I was beginning to be more fully aware of my surroundings and myself.  I began to thoroughly enjoy my moving environment. I was feeling wonderful; my senses were keen and my comprehension instantaneous.  Suddenly the realization of what was happening hit me, and I became overwhelmed with fear. I remembered my family, my kids and my dependents. I meditated briefly on this. I cried to God, 'Help me! My kids will become orphans, and I will not be able to accomplish my life-goals!' Suddenly my travelling stopped.  The human-like shape that had been travelling in front of me came back and started smiling at me. Then I again fell unconscious, or into a semi-trance, for some time. 

At some point, I started observing myself drifting slowly down towards my body where it had fallen unconscious into a drain-like area next to the highway, and all the feelings of traveling and being surround by glowing whiteness disappeared. Then I had this feeling that somebody had held (the earthly) me upside down and blinded me and that my head was bloody and surrounded by bees and mosquitoes. I saw nothing but blackness for a moment, and then suddenly I was again inside my own body and feeling a lot of pain.  I lay there suffering for some time until a passer-by stopped his vehicle and brought me to the hospital. 

I was given stitches in two areas, underwent major surgery, and for a few more months I continued to have a lot of pain in my spine. I wanted to share my experience someday, but it wasn't until recently that I found out about this site. What I have described is only a tiny part of what I experienced, particularly about the immense pleasure I felt before I decided that I must return.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  05-08-2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Criminal attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Certainly different. It is like multi-layered vision: I can see the path's surroundings, and in front, the traveling human-like shape, and the earth underneath the translucent path,  and at a time apart from my thoughts and prayer to almighty.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While travelling

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Extra ordinary high.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I cannot say it is a tunnel, but a tube-path surrounded be a translucent white area where a wall would be, but not firm, like a wall.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Glowing with mild lighting where a source is not visible.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Super surprise and little fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu   MY FAITH IS TOWARDS ALMIGHTY POWER WHO IS ADMINISTRATING THE WORLD IRRESPECTIVE OF RELIGION

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I was a strong believer in the Almighty God both before and after this episode.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Hindu   MY FAITH IS TOWARDS ALMIGHTY POWER WHO IS ADMINISTRATING THE WORLD IRRESPECTIVE OF RELIGION

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     no

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   No voice. Some sounds of a tinkling-like thing. At the end, I witnessed a smile from the human-like shape.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Can not express

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I sometimes have a cool mind in regard to intuitions.  I am able to foresee much and can predict a few things that are going to happen. Accordingly, I alert people that are concerned about upcoming events, either good or bad. I've proved 95% succession rate. I do feel that I am not able to transform my predictions into reality or comparison or explainable statements.  Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I started loving more; and hate-filled, revenge-type thoughts completely vanished.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   no

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I get thoughts of upcoming good/bad events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I prayed with super confidence, maybe my soul had been traveling to other worlds and was stopped by 'X' who listened to my prayers and brought my soul back to my earthly body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my wife and few friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Whenever we think we know things for sure, that shows our ignorance. There is vast, limitless activity going on, way beyond our ability to imagine.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sreenivasa_m_nde.html