{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sonia_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Sonia M Possible NDEs 6352","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sonia M Possible NDEs 6352  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sonia M Possible NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDEs  			3103 Sonia M Possible NDEs 6352  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the time of my first NDE my boyfriend and I had broken up and I was severely depressed (but not so much so that I was suicidal) and extremely distraught. I remember the first time it happened. I was in bed, could not sleep, and kept staring out my bedroom window, staring at the stars. 

I heard a slow roar, it almost sounded like a distant train coming closer and closer. Before I knew it, I could see a glorious light and a long, dark grey tunnel at the foot of my bed. It had the most wonderful glow. From this light, I could only feel peace and love emitting from it. The light was so intense and I remember thinking to myself: why doesn't the light hurt my eyes because I have such sensitivity to light. I was looking intently at this light when I saw an image slowly appearing from this light. I watched this image take shape and as it did, it was moving towards me in a sort of gliding, smooth motion. I could hear this grand voice that seemed to echo through my head and reverberate throughout my body, as the person took form in someone I knew: my sister in law. But I could hear a man's voice speaking to me through her, and as she placed her right hand on my left shoulder, she said: All will be okay.' I asked her, 'why can't I just go now?' Without moving her lips, she communicated, 'It's not time. You will be okay. It's not time.' I begged and pleaded; all this time I was sobbing because the love I felt was so immense I thought I'd burst. Slowly the image went back into the light.

When I woke up it was morning. I was very confused. I didn't talk to anyone about this. I chalked it up as a dream, but a few weeks later, it happened again. 

The second time, I was in my room alone and it was just before dusk. I was still pretty heartbroken and really not doing anything but sitting in my room as I had been for the past few weeks. I sat on the edge of my bed crying with sobs that were unknown to me. I was truly grieving over my break-up. I missed my boyfriend so much and was so sad. I was actually in physical pain and truly prayed to die that night. I prayed for what seemed hours. I was so tired of questioning my life, my purpose and asking God himself, 'Why am I here?  What purpose do I have?' I asked this over and over, still sobbing with so much pain in my heart. Then it happened, I heard a distant roar, slowly the roar became louder and louder like I was directly over a train. 

Suddenly as if I was sucked into a vacuum, I was transported to my boyfriend's condominium. I was at the base of the stairs and a thunderous voice spoke to me and said, 'SEE'. I understood. (It was not a 'questioning see?' but more like, 'see, this is what will happen if you die.) In one swift movement, I was taken to the top of the stairs. I could see my boyfriend's sons running past me and yelling out to each other.  I heard one of his son's yell: 'CALL 911. Dad, what's wrong? DAD! The voice again said to me, 'SEE. Is this really what you want?'  I said, 'No'. I felt myself being sucked into the vacuum again and I awoke.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  08/2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'd have to say the 2nd time. I was very aware and conscious of what had just happened and instantly associated.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Only during the experience was my vision 20/20. I wear glasses and for a split second remember saying: 'wow, everything is so clear'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was also very keen during the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was not allowed to enter

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The image of God did not come through but I felt his presence, I heard the voice of God through the image of my sister-in-law who was incidentally still alive and well.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The first time I felt lots of love, and warmth that took over my entire being. The second time I just felt loss and anguish knowing that what I was praying for was not going to happen to me but the one I love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I suppose it's been more of a slow churn to the point where I am today with my spirituality; changing for the positive.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   WHILE I STILL HAVE MY CATHOLIC BASE SO TO SPEAK, RECENTLY I'VE BECOME VERY AWARE THAT THERE IS MORE THAN JUST NAMING MY RELIGION, I FEEL SPIRITUALITY IN TUNE WHICH SEEM SO MUCH MORE BROADER AND ALMOST A COMBINATION OF SEVERAL RELIGIOUS BACKGROUNDS.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Honestly not until recently have I really questioned and started talking about it to someone. Values and my beliefs have certainly been altered and I am more aware of my own role in life, so to speak.  I also feel like I'm just tapping into something even more profound.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   the image of GOD did not come through but i felt his presence, I heard the voice of god through the image of my sister inlaw who was incidently still alive and well.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     i felt his presence and heard his voice and i had no question in my mind that it was GOD.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt His presence and heard his voice; I had no question in my mind that it was GOD. During the first encounter, I felt immense love and the second time I was aware of love towards my boyfriend.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     during the first encounter i felt immense love and the second time i was aware of love towards my boyfriend

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Slowly I'm realizing changes in my faith, my life and those whom I love and deal with on a daily basis for the better.  I'm not so self-conscious speaking of GOD, my spirituality, or faith.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I've started hearing voices and I thought I was going crazy. I started to feel strange energies around me. Just recently, I have spoken to someone who has dealt with the same and told me I have 'medium' capabilities.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About 7 years later.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was more in disbelief and would revisit the experience in my mind over and over.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know what it was, but I almost had an epiphany a few months ago and realized that it was real.  I don't know why it just came to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I remember the experiences as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experiences.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sonia_m_possible_nde.html