{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1soony_s_ndes.html","mytitle":"Soony NDEs 6348\/16029","mylang":"de"}
          	        Soony NDEs 6348/16029  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Soony NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3011 Soony NDEs 6348/16029  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 16029  					</p>  					

First time, I had a near death experience as a teenager when I was drowning in the river. A tunnel of light pulled me up.

Second time, thirty eight years ago, during a tour in Africa, my heart stopped.  During this time, I saw my body transferred out from the earth.  A soft light came down, covered my body and face, and lifted me up to some place. Very shortly after, I saw myself rise up in a sitting position, looking down at the place where I fell down and died. I could see everything around my body including my late husband. I saw they were talking. I couldn't hear them.  I was talking to my late husband. He didn't hear me. I knew I was far away, and yet, everything looked to close.

I do not have any recollection of when I returned to my body.  Even now, I have no memory of what I did right after I returned, for a few years after.

The most amazing feeling was ‘in transition’ from the earth to the other side.  Words cannot describe that feeling. I could say ‘in Perfect Harmony.’ I came back with the gift of being able to channel healing energy.

After my husband departed in 2004, I worked with energy to heal people on Sundays, pro bono.  I worked on different people with different problems.  It is effective to reconnect damaged nerves, help multiple sclerosis, addictions, and depression. It especially helps with severe pains.

Sometimes, I like to talk, or meet the person/people with the same, or similar, experiences.   				 
  Experience Description 6348  					</p>  					Late April, 1977, I was traveling with my late husband and his sister to Europe and northern Africa for his birthday. 

When we arrived in Casablanca, Africa, at a small three story hotel, I remember that I fell down in the hotel lobby.

The next thing I saw was:

One: A gentle light beamed down from a star, small, and not bright, in the north-east direction.

Two: The light covered my body. I was face up, lying down.

Three: I was lifted up toward the star.   

Four: Shortly after, I rose to a sitting position.  I was looking down at where my husband and many others were around my body.

Five: The entire journey was brief and in perfect peace. The feeling during the transition was not describable with words.   Even now, I can feel it, when I close my eyes, and bring myself to that moment.  If there is an afterlife, it must be ‘in perfect harmony’        

Six: I remember telling my husband that my meridian was blocked. He didn't hear me. I couldn't hear what they were talking about.

Seven: I saw a man wearing a white gown, like a doctor, who came through the door and examined my body. He walked out.

Eight: I saw my husband and others looking down.

Nine: I asked him why he didn't hear me?

Ten: He said, ‘hear you?’ Then said he was going to make an arrangement to fly my body to the States.

From that point on, I don't remember what happened, where we went, or what we did, for many years.  My husband returned to his maker in May 2004. Now, our dogs and cats are keeping continuing my energy works. I re-connect energy to heal.  It is effective.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April, 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   During the near death experience, I was not aware that I was in the ‘afterlife.’   Now, I am aware that I am alive.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Strange as it may sound, I didn't realize that I was dead clinically until I returned.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I know I left Earth.  I didn't know where I was.  I also knew I was very, very far away, and yet I could see everything so clearly, as though I was right there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear the people around me. They did not hear me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the sky, there was a little, not too bright star.  A beam of light came down. It was like a spot light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was ‘nowhere.’  It was not a structure or nothingness.   Simply, it was a space.     Sometimes, when I am in meditation, I feel like that.’

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute peace and beautifulness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I am aware of much more about the universe then before my near death experience.  I understand the universe better, and feel it often.  When I see programs about the universe, I feel I am in it.   I feel much closer to the universe.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   background is Korean.  We grew up with multipul faith.  Christian, buddhist and confusianism.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths   believe in One God, christ the lord, and nature

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was not sure there is a after life before NDE, and if there is, what form ?  I know it is after life.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am much less attached to things.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I knew who I was without physical body.    It was "me".

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I lost real anger toward people who badly trespassed on me.   I feel from time to time that I am not in the crowd.  It feels like I came back to stand looking a sight where I was before.  It feels like I’m ‘not a part of’ things.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Since the near death experience, we were married for twenty seven years until he returned to his god. I felt each day was the most beautiful day.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The moment when the beam of gentle light beam that covered my body.  During the transition, I lifted from earth to some other place, the most peaceful, ultimately tranquil place. The floating, but most of all, feeling ‘beautiful.’

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to channel healing energy to effectively heal people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that the afterlife will give me peace in life and death.   Recalling that tranquility during the transition, and being able to feel it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After thirty five years, in April of 2012, I logged onto this near death experience website.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   When I was fifteen, I drowned in the river. Our boat capsized.  I got very tired, and then things around me got lighter. Then I was not tired anymore.  Then, at some point, I remember seeing the Light lift me through the tunnel of light in standing position. I was slightly tilted, headed up.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Did not think nor talk about it for many years.  When I think about it, I can recall the feeling and feel it even now.   It is real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I can recall the whole event.   If I repeat the story one hundred times, it will be same. Because it was real to me.  Therefore, it is bedded to my memory.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I've had other experiences.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am so glad and lucky to have had the near death experience I had. It helped me to be a better person, knowing God is there. I appreciate the beauty of Earth.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I learned there are so many ways the near death experience is processed. All near death experiencers seemed clear how they left their earthly body. Like light tunnels, being lifted by beams of light, or time speeding up.  None described how they came back. I’d like to know, if anyone remembers how they returned, in a physical sense.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1soony_s_ndes.html