{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1soizi_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Soizi W Probable NDE 7158","mylang":"de"}
          	        Soizi W Probable NDE 7158  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Soizi W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3624 Soizi W Probable NDE 7158  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We were preparing for a long family journey to join my family in New Caledonia. My husband, children and me, wanted to join my family, living in that area of the world. We had well prepared for this journey. We had prepared the possibility to continue the schooling of the children during the traveling, having my psychology diploma two months prior.  The father of my children and I married, he stopped at his job because of the journey and expected to maybe find another one. I postponed my project of research in psychology, concerning therapeutic meditations. We had informed all organizations where we had commitments, regarding our future absence. All was well prepared and I would finally be able to meet certain members of my family. Happily, we would avoid the cold of the winter! All was done and we would be leaving in a week, when suddenly I started into another journey, this time alone! 

The events almost made my children join in this journey. I don't remember anything of the start, only what I was told. I was driving my children from school to our home, when a truck crossed into my lane on a curve and hit my care.  

I slipped away and took off into an improvised journey. My daughter didn't follow; she remained firmly grounded on earth. My son wanted to follow me but wasn't successful at the take off! My body was transported to the hospital and was given anti-shock treatment. The children also went there for observation. While my body stayed in hospital, I was at different places. I'm unable to tell you in what order they happened. 

I was in a corridor where there were many persons. Between them, I recognized the grandfather of my husband, who died some time before this. I was in a big space, resembling a tent for a forum. There were several stands and I was standing at exactly one of them, speaking with a Buddhist monk, wearing white. He said to me, ‘You shouldn't come today. You will come back here when you will have the age of ???xxx years. You did a lot of good things in your life, you will go back. But now make the most of your life.’ I don't know any more if those are the exact words, but that's the main idea of them! 

This journey lasted a month of earthly life. For me, time didn't exist. For me, it lasted only a few seconds but also an eternity, relative to the upheaval that it caused to my life. Now I only truly remember having seen the Buddhist monk, and the words I heard, coming from him. I don't know how to explain why I knew that he was a Buddhist monk. For me it was just evidence, that's it. 

The rest is what I am told that I said when waking up. This journey allowed me to increase ten-fold my attention to the other one, an attention of feelings, maybe intuitive. The wish to reintegrate socially makes me lose this faculty and I regret it. 

The fact of losing those faculties and the detailed memory of many events of my journey, as well as the perception of time, makes me think at what Werber wrote about the birth of children, ‘An angel is passing when the baby is still in the womb of his mother, puts his finger on his mouth and says ‘sh-h-h!’, so that the child should not be telling his life of before birth, where he is coming from.’ 

Today, I am wanting to get back those faculties of intuitive perception and of reception, I'm searching and I turn towards the persons that I met during my journey: Buddhist monks. Will they be able to explain to me the sentence of this monk, which I met during my journey?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/11/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  coma, glagow 4, je ne sais pas si mort clinique ou pas  Other coma, glagow 4, je ne sais pas si mort clinique ou pas  I was in an auto crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While meeting the Buddhist monk

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No notion of time, no feelings in this respect.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing to report

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I don't remember, I was told that I reported at my awakening, that I had been in a corridor with many people lined up

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In the corridor I met the grandfather of my ex-husband, who died a few years before my accident, and a Buddhist monk.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Nothing special, as usual, curiosity, attention

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     The Buddhist monk told me that I did many good things and that I should make the most of life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The Buddhist monk told me that it was not my time, that ‘my time was in ??? number of years,’ that I did many good things, to go back to life and take advantage of it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     From being an atheist I lately went to a Buddhist temple for a Buddhist initiation, as this religion or philosophy of life, for me can shed light upon the existence and bring answers or reflections to my questions.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Buddhist   exploration de la vie avec comme guide spirituel le bouddhisme et comme réponse au questionnement de  l'existence

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     ma mère s'avançait vers le bouddhisme mais moi non. Les rencontres avec l'univers bouddhistes m'avait plu sans me conduire vers une croyance ou un approfondissement de la connaissance dans ce domaine.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a belief in a supreme power, whose love is the main work tool of this power.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The Buddhist monk

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     il me semble qu'une force suprçeme existe mais je ne peux pas l'appeler Dieu qui dans ma culture est trop humain

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   The monk said to me to take advantage of my life and that I did many good things, but this remains a mystery for me, that I still have to clarify.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Je dois profiter de la vie mais je ne suis pas certaine de ce que ça veut dire

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     Laz vie du moine, les personnes dans le couloir me laisse penser qu'il existe une forme d'existence après la mort

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. Certain people, even if they are still present in my life, went away or turned away, maybe because the accident and the neurological changes in me, caused fear and sadness having lost those that they loved.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Yes I think that my relationships essentially changed because of behavioral and cognitive problems due to cranial trauma. I believe that my spiritual opening that emerged from this is well accepted and understood.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   je me souviens précisément de ma rencontre avec le moine bouddhiste et pas du tout de mon expérience dns le couloir où j'étais avec d'autres personnes décédées.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was sensitive already before the accident of the non-spoken; it seemed to me to have a kind of intuition. I animated a creative workshop, was talking to two people, and turned around. There I saw a child that had smeared some paint in his eye; I helped to clean his eye. I turned around even if I didn't see him, and he made no special noise.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My encounter with the Buddhist monk is carrying, in my opinion, an essential message, but I still have to decode it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately after my awakening, then much later, the reaction of people was always to ask me how I knew that he was a Buddhist.  My mother said that at my awakening I said that he was wearing white.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I directly asked my soundings to report to me certain words of the Buddhist monk that I didn't remember and I thought that it was very real for me, even a nurse at the hospital told me about them.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     In the beginning I thought that this sensation of reality of the experience was neurological, after my readings I would say that it is astral, supernatural: I don't know how to qualify it, and it is, nevertheless, very real, in the true sense.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The advice of the monk, the people in the corridor let me think that there is a form of existence after death. It seems to me that a supreme power does exist, but I cannot call it God, who in my culture, is too human. My mother was going towards Buddhism, but not me. I liked the encounters with the Buddhist universe, but without going towards a belief or a deepening of knowledge in this field. I remember precisely the meeting with the Buddhist monk, and not at all my experience in the corridor when I was with other deceased people.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1soizi_w_probable_nde.html