{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sonia_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sonia S Probable NDE 7895","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sonia S Probable NDE 7895  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sonia S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4090 Sonia S Probable NDE 7895  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In June 5, 2013, I was at a parade with my mom and my youngest daughter, who was 2 years old at the time. It was very hot out.  As I was drinking a cold drink, I felt a bug bite my neck.  With quick instinct, I slapped my neck and when I looked at the palm of my hand tit was a dead mosquito. I told my mom, 'Yuck I killed a bug', and she helped me clean my hand. Within 30 minutes, I told my mom that I felt sick and was dizzy. I decided to go home. Immediately when I got home, I laid in the couch and from there on I felt sick. The next day I was still dizzy with a headache. As days passed by, I started getting a fever, so I decided to go to the hospital. The doctors told me it was a summer flu.  I went home.

As days continued to pass, I start getting new symptoms in addition to my fever, headaches, and dizziness. I started vomiting multiple times in one day, so I decide to return to the same hospital.  I'm diagnosed with a stomach virus, so I go back home. All medications given to me made me even more sick. 

Time continued to pass as I lived sick day by day with new symptoms daily. I decided to go to a different hospital this time.  I have developed speech problems where I sound like a snake when I speak with many sss's. I also am having problems walking. But in this hospital they found nothing, and called it a virus, flu, or whatever seemed appropriate to them. 

I go home and a couple more days go by.  This time I'm so sick that I basically gave up. At this time, I can't no longer eat or drink anything.  I can't walk and barely can talk. A family friend, my cousin, and my ex sister-in-law insisted I go to a hospital known to be very good in reputation. They called an ambulance to take me to this hospital.  To my surprise, the diagnosis was that I had brain inflammation; more specifically it was West Nile virus from the infected mosquito.  I was told I had 10 hours to live.  It is now June 23rd; I remember because the next day was my son's birthday. I went into a mini-coma, which helped relieve pressure from my brain.  I had two spinal cord injections that relieved pressure on the brain as well. Lots of steroids and other medications were given to me. During that mini-coma is when my NDE occurred. 

I remember going through a tunnel with lights.  The tunnel brought me to a place with a huge screen and many people waiting for, what it seemed to me, a movie that was about to start. As I look at the huge crowd of people I notice that I know them all or they seem familiar. The light on the screen turn on and there I am as a child about 10 years old.  I'm walking into a department store with a friend.  We end up stealing a hat and, OMG, that was shown to everyone there.  When I looked at the crowd, that friend and the cops involved as I got caught were all there watching the movie too. I was saying in my mind, 'What is this? Where am I?'  The screen kept showing scenes one after another, to all of this crowd.  The crowd ended up being everyone who was a part of my life or who I've ever met.  The screen kept showing all my sins I've ever done from my teenage years until I was age 33. I was so embarrassed.  Those were the secrets I thought no one would ever know, yet it was shown to all those that I ever knew. I felt humiliated, embarrassed and it did not stop until I said, 'I am sorry. I repent for all sins I have ever committed.'

Suddenly, I wake up scared in a bed with about three people around me who were full of light. I couldn't tell if they were human, but they sounded human as they spoke among each other. 

Then, I am somewhere else. I started seeing different lives: I saw my animal lives, my life as a speck, my life where I was condemned as a witch, my life where I was an unknown  creature in the ocean, and so many more lives. I saw that my soul is over 2000 years old. I saw my life as other races, not Hispanic as I am now. I had over 20 dreams that I can remember. I remember the horror of being a cockroach, the struggle for survival was immense. As a cockroach I knew I was me Sonia and I asked to please take me way from this form. I have so many more dreams to share with the world. I woke up from my mini-coma thinking my kids were not alive. To me I was not dreaming and remembering in one life were I lost my children. I really thought it was this life; I was devastated and confused, especially when I did see my kids at the hospital during recovery. I was tired after the coma and not in my right mind not knowing what's right and what's wrong. I was sent from there to a place to get better.  Months later, after all this, I was sent home. 

When I got home, life was different to me as my body was in a battle. I came out the hospital with a severely weakened immune system. I spent almost a year battling diseases until on January of 2015 I had an awakening. Suddenly, I knew out of nowhere that my dreams in the hospital were past lives experiences. I realized we are all one 'oneness.' I woke up.  I felt like I was leaving the matrix and was a different person. After that, I learned so much. I learned how to communicate with archangels, angels, and other beings. I learned to be a spiritual person. I am so grateful to have learned to cure my own body as we are all God and are able to have the power of healing ourselves and healing others. I no longer get sick. I am cured; with no medicines and no doctors. Everyday since then I learn something new. I learned why I am here in this earth and it is to help others. Crazy thing is my past before this accident and before this awakening was disastrous. I was very violent, got into fights, basically didn't care much. Now I am blessed and my life is transformed. I am so full of love and I just want to help the world.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Infected by a mosquito with West Nile Virus

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My body felt an electric sensation all over, something never felt in my normal consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Only at my awakening on January 2015.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time slowed down. I was in a mini coma not very long and I had so many past life experiences shown to me it seemed years, like more than 20 years.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Every day I saw life as I thought it really was, then on my awakening I had a vision of the truth I saw all that is.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I kept hearing this ringing in my ears more than I used to before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through a tunnel during my mini-coma in the hospital as I was having my first experience.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     On my last dream before awakening from my coma, I saw my brother, my cousin and my grandmother, which have all passed away. My brother said ‘Sonia what are you doing here’, as I floated up in a cloud and I said, ' I do not know, I think I died, Tito', he sent me back down in an angry voice, 'It's not your time' and then I awakened.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw beings talking with lights around them so that I couldn't see their faces.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     On one of the past life experiences, I saw me swimming and I had a tail and two eyes. I was a different creature in a different world.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a sensation throughout my body that made my cry in joy. I felt a relief of knowing. I felt so excited.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understand we all come from one ‘oneness’. We are connected to the universe.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw many of my past lives and experienced many of them again.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   I believed in God but I wasn't so sure. I was confused at the time.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am now able to connect and invoke, as well as ask for the help, of our spiritual beings.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I am a believer in our creator and a believer that we are all God as we are seed Adam.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed we passed away and life is over, now I know we never really die, only our body dies.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe there is a God, definitely, now.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard these beings tell me it's going to be ok, in this next life, it will be better. ‘Don't worry you never die.’ She told me this as I came back from seeing my life as a very bad woman.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Yes I experienced over 20 of my past life experiences which made me see my soul is an old soul over 2000 years old. I have gone through many incarnations.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     During my coma, I lived in a world of my past life, which involved magic. I was able to season everyone's food that turned into creations and a big feast….we were all oneness.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Because to me, who were those light beings trying to calm me down after every bad life reincarnation dream that I experienced? They were helping me as I reached the tunnel. I believe our creator sends them to assist us.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had the knowledge that we are immortal souls.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     We keep reincarnating until we fulfill our destiny. Until we awaken and find out our purpose in life and pursue it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       After my experience, I am a new person. I am more friendly, compassionate, understanding, spiritual, and loving. I am so full of love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have so many people telling me that I am a better Sonia. My mom is more grateful than anyone is for the positive change in my life, which I now have.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because I felt no one understood me, I felt alone in this awakening.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events t

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Now I am talented in crafts, I can draw, and I connect with other beings. I discovered whom my brother reincarnated into when he passed away in 2003. I learned to heal myself as well as others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All means so much since I was basically saved, because who knows how my life would be now if I weren’t awakened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I share with as many people as I can.  I posted a video on my Facebook for those that did not know what went through.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only what I have read and a TV program, I saw before.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was all real…my past life experiences I kept to myself for so long and shared as soon as I realized it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I believe, even more so, that it was real as I still saw a past life experience after my awakening.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I grew spiritually. I learned that there are many other beings helping humanity. We chose to come to this earth.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank You.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sonia_s_probable_nde.html