{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1soledad_nde.html","mytitle":"Soledad NDE 4547","mylang":"de"}
          	        Soledad NDE 4547  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Soledad NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2197 Soledad NDE 4547  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After an endless period of suffering I lost consciousness, and then something awakened me. The pain and suffocation seemed to have disappeared. 'Someone' was approaching me from behind and I could sense this being on the left side. He or she told me not to be afraid, and explained that they had come to take me away. When I heard this, I felt joy and relief. I do not remember anything else. I woke up to see my mother weeping.

When I saw myself 'here' once more, feeling pain and discomfort, I was in a very bad way emotionally. I have never loved life and I have tried suicide twice. Since then I want to get away from here, it is a constant feeling.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had both lungs full of fluid, could hardly breathe, and I lost consciousness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When whoever came to get me 'entered' the room.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When whoever came to get me 'entered' the room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I do not know how long I was unconscious before I woke up. My mother never wanted to talk about it because she felt guilty for not taking me to the doctor sooner. Sorry.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I don't know who it was but he or she inspired total confidence in me. I think it was a man, by the tone, but I am not sure.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I don't remember.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     No lo recuerdo

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Relief, joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I do not fear death, but I do not love life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Ninguno

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God has nothing to do with religion. We should not ask for anything, He knows everything we need, what is happening with us. We are part of Him.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God has nothing to do with religion. We should not ask for anything, He knows everything we need, what is happening with us. We are part of Him.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I could be mistaken, but I believe that in my case I am here to undergo a punishment.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I believe in God, I find consolation in the Faith. I think it is not possible to have a good life without believing in something beyond it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To translate the message I received into words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was brought up in an orphanage run by nuns, where they mistreated me and imposed terrible abuses. I remember beatings, terror and brutality. When they got me out of there, I was eleven years old. I turned my back on religion and stopped believing in God. I believed in nothing at all. After this experience, and thanks to it, I began the slow process of reconciliation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I knew with a certainty it is hard to explain that after death was something wonderful. I take my life as a prison sentence. I still count the days remaining to me before I regain the true and longed for freedom.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Through another experience I had at thirty-eight years of age, I have the impression that something wonderful was erased from my memory, which is not fitting for me to remember because I am a suicidal person. I think that I only remember a small part of what happened, for this reason. I was punished, that is my impression.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had another experience in an operating theatre when I was twenty years old. I 'escaped' into space, and the matter through which I was moving was something similar to gelatin, but of lighter consistency. When I was resuscitated (in the intensive care unit) I came down out of this medium and entered my battered body through the head. On awaking I had a reaction of anger, pain and revulsion towards my own body.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't understand why many people who have had this sensation love life and none of them say they felt bad on returning. I have doubts about my second experience, under anesthesia. Of the first, I am very convinced of its reality.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think I have said it before, I would like it if you asked people if after the experience they love life. One is not very well off down here.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1soledad_nde.html