{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1siri_l_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Siri L Possible NDE 7628","mylang":"de"}
          	        Siri L Possible NDE 7628  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Siri L Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3913 Siri L Possible NDE 7628  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I started heavily using methamphetamines for a couple of months. I had not slept for at least a week. One day, I decided that I needed to stop using drugs entirely and sleep it all off.  As I closed my eyes, I thought, 'Finally I will sleep this off and feel better and never touch this stuff again.' 

I saw blackness; not just the blackness that you see when you start to doze off, but a void-darkness. I was thinking this is not sleep.  Then I started realizing that this is amazing; I felt really peaceful. Unfortunately, I don't really know what happened next. 

However, I just finished reading another person's NDE and knew that I really had an NDE myself. I remember waking up and realized that I had been somewhere else. It's like having an experience as a child and then later remembering bits and pieces, but the whole story isn't there because something is missing. Finally, I recalled most of it, I was dead. I thought how inconveniently dead I was.  I was angry because I had things to do and I would never have time to do all of it. It still makes me wonder what all those things are I have to do. All I know is that to this day, I can remember every thought I had about the experience. Knowing that I have too much to do and I cannot die no matter what.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Drug or medication overdose.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  But the facts have not been checked out  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I can't explain this, because of being in total darkness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I really don't know how long this experience went on, but, it seemed everything happened at one time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Don't know

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard nothing

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, calm

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     A Void

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   All I know is that to this day, I can remember every thought I had about the experience. Knowing that I have too much to do and I cannot die, no matter what.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Spirituality

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   All Faiths, Christian and Spiritualism

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. I never did drugs again.     Large changes in my life. I never did drugs again.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Dreams are very vivid and I used to dream of spirits or death and dying.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. For years afterwards to anyone that would listen

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it really was real: because, I've never shared a dream with strangers.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am sharing this experience with a media website, although, much of the reality of the experience has faded away.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1siri_l_possible_nde.html