{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sk_w_nde.html","mytitle":"SK W NDE 114","mylang":"de"}
          	        SK W NDE 114  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					SK W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						538  SK W NDE  114  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 First experience:  I had been struggling with an abdominal infection for several months and no antibiotic worked. One afternoon, as I lay in bed, I "knew" that I was dying. I was rushed to the hospital and promptly fell into an altered state accompanied by a very high fever. At one point, I "woke up" and wondered why they had put me in such a tall bed -- I was at least 8 feet off the floor and I could see my mother sitting beside the bed way down there. It was a brief experience and I fell into a coma.


Second experience:  I was recovering well from an abdominal surgery, but developed peritonitis.  Again, I "knew" that I was dying, and suddenly, I found myself lying in a casket that was lined with white tufted satin, and all my family and friends were filing by, looking at me and crying.  I was then pulled out and was presented with the option to stay or leave.  I thought of my two sons and decided to stay.  I was then told that I had a very special purpose and that I must always be true to myself.  At that time, I was a rock musician and could not read or write music.    A few months later, fully recovered, I sat down on night at my piano and "fell asleep". When I awoke ten hours later, I had a completed symphony before me.  Since then, I have become an accomplished classical composer and conductor and I find myself playing the role as "spirit guide" to many people. I feel that I am a Walk-In".

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    April 1978 & October 1983

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessSurgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death First Experience: Peritonitis [a potentially fatal inflammation of the abdomen's lining].  Second experience:  Post-surgical peritonitis [a potentially fatal inflammation of the abdomen's lining].

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not see my body as I was concerned about my mother's sadness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very, very clear.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Second experience: I was in the future -- if I decided to leave.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     First experience: No.  Second experience: Thoughts were present, but I did not actually hear a voice or see anyone.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, pure logic and balance.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew that I was here to accomplish something.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Very accurate, although I'm still waiting to complete my work.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt love and compassion for my children and family.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Eastern philosophies.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Universal.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I could suddenly compose (on paper) classical music and I have lucid memories and dreams of a life in the 18th century. Since then, I've met many people who share these memories with me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Not applicable.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They love it!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sk_w_nde.html