{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1skeeter_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Skeeter Possible NDE 2331","mylang":"de"}
          	        Skeeter Possible NDE 2331  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Skeeter Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						682  Skeeter Possible NDE  2331  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I just recall being drawn towards a big bright light to the point where I was in the light, only to have it communicated (somehow) that it was time to leave and back I came. The coming back part was the most impressionable and requires very little digging into the memory, as it seems suspended somewhere time. As for an 'out of body experience' I don't think I knew what a body was (laughs). However, one thing I do remember is that at no stage did I feel grounded during the experience. Another quirky thing which followed was an assumption that I'd be able to look directly at the sun with no problems (laughs).

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 6/25/1985   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Fetal complications.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Fetal distress.  Fetal distress.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Well it's strange because yes I seemed extremely lucid but on the other hand I don't remember actually thinking about what I was experiencing at the time. People use the word 'timeless' I can relate to that.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My alertness seemed to peak when I was coming back (reasonably clear).  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     The experience played out without any sense of time, timeless.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I know the light I encountered was verging on being blinding.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything during the experience.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I don't remember coming into contact with anyone/thing else, but I remember a grand presence which seemed to transcend anything (or anybody's) presence I've felt since.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light I saw was all around me, it was like I was in the light the whole time.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     Yes, the light that surrounded me was as good as it gets!  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       An emotion which is seldom felt, occasionally I'll get a similar feeling when I look at the night sky or hear a particularly nice piece of music. But like I said earlier I didn't do much thinking at the time of the experience so it was more of an essence or a presence which was felt.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        This is a strange one, I vaguely remember holding a soft toy in my hands, which I would later collect at a hospital. That being said, I did have a general anesthetic when I collected the toy and was put to sleep under a big light. But I can't see how that would have given me a floating sensation (even with the use of premeds) and also remain so coherent lifelong, plus I've always just known this experience was the first thing that ever happened to me, strange as!  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Hadn't formed one.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I was baptized in the catholic church however because of my experience my belief system isn't that of a strict catholic.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian, leaning toward Gnosticism.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was baptized in the catholic church however because of my experience my belief system isn't that of a strict catholic.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Yeah the light was teaching me something, something out of earshot, however it may have corroborated unbeknownst to me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was always a pleasant but not overly sociable child, to the point where my parents suspected I may had autism.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is rather difficult to express in words, it's one of the few glimpses I've had of my higher self.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Perhaps the toy thing.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the stateliness of whatever it was that lay behind that light, I'm sure it was God.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first people I told were my mum and grandmother, I would have been about twelve. It was after hearing about other near death cases that a bell rung and I thought, 'Hey! That sounds familiar. I had an encounter with a big bright light.' And mum then said, 'Well you did suffer fetal distress.' I thought, 'Yes, yes! It was the first thing that ever happened to me.' My experience was well on its way to being validated when I started reading detailed accounts from other people speaking of the light, and the love it radiated. My family thinks the exposure to all these other accounts speaking of intense love etc. may have caused me (at the very least) to embellish the experience, if not present a new and improved version of it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Hardly (laughs).  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     It's been in my psyche all along, but I didn't really give it much thought when I was a youngster. I cherished it (whatever it may have been) but just thought, oh yeah. For all I knew everybody could've experienced this: 'A tree is judged by its fruit. A bad tree cannot bear good fruit. Nor can a good tree bear bad fruit. The fruit of the Holy Spirit is love, joy, peace, etc.' I know that the light radiated goodness through and through.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     The only thing that puts any doubt into my mind is that possibility Satan can simulate the love of God and lure people into deception (that's what people say anyway). So, yeah, I was in two minds about it for a while there but was relieved to read this.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   The only medication that ever could reproduce it would be one that improved my memory, (not likely).  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nope, I think most of it has been covered.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1skeeter_possible_nde.html