{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1silvia_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Silvia F NDE 4823","mylang":"de"}
          	        Silvia F NDE 4823  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Silvia F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2466 Silvia F NDE 4823  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It happened four months after I got my driving license. I was going to the doctor to get the vaccine for asthma. At a sharp bend, I left the road. I do not remember if it was sleep caused by medications, which I was taking (for asthma), or speed (I remember I was in the third gear) - I just know I went straight!

Suddenly I saw myself enveloped by a huge white light. At first, I did not understand where I was.

I woke up after a while, or at least I thought so, and I saw the car destroyed - glass all around, a concrete pole (it was a field of grapes or something similar) embedded in the glass front two inches from my face and another pole above my head at a few centimeters. I saw the mess I was before but I noticed that I wasn't injured I hadn't even a scratch! I was in shock as I reached the first home I found and I asked for help!

I continued shivering and they gave me about five cups of chamomile tea, but I could not calm down. I saw later, when my father arrived, the condition the care was in. The car was totaled but we managed to fix it!

According to me someone up there really loved me and gave me a hand - maybe it was not yet my time!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  febbraio 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After that I 'awakened' from the light - but I did not very well understand, however, what had happened! Uncertain I would say that I don't remember certain issues well!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I did not see where it began and ended.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A great light - it enveloped me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I do not know how to explain well, as if I were in another place - I did not see the car - I only saw this white light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I do not know if this is due to this experience or not but often I see what people around me are thinking about me - I just know that I started having a hand tremor. I do not know whether it is due to the incident and the fear or the medicines that I have to take for asthma!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        More than anything else when I saw this light - was an unusual thing for me - I have already nearly put my life at risk years before but I had never seen this light before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my mother and friend - I was told that someone up there wants me really well.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had seen it in the movies; I do not think that has influenced me!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Even after several years I think it definitely real. I see it again in my eyes like it was yesterday!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Yes now I only believe in entities (spirits, God, and the dead) who live above us but not in the Church.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, the questions you have done are going well.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1silvia_f_nde.html