{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1simone_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Simone R NDE 3404","mylang":"de"}
          	        Simone R NDE 3404  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  				    				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									  										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				  				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Simone R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1345 Simone R NDE 3404  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Terminated my baby 2 days before, due to my age and I was heart broken and hated myself for doing it.

I went to bed as normal. I went to a place but it was just pink fluffy clouds and bright light. There was the most beautiful choir music too. I could feel hundreds of people looking at me and smiling although I couldn't see them and there was a very strong smell in the air of flowers although I couldn't see any. In front of me stood my great Nan and great granddad, my little brother and my Nan was holding a baby. All deceased. My Nan handed me the baby and although I couldn't see the baby just its blanket I instinctively knew it was my baby. My brother kept trying to pull me with him but my Nan kept pushing me back and saying 'go back it's not your time, you're needed.' I felt sad and confused as to why my Nan didn't want me but I soon felt exhilarated and happy. I woke up to my boyfriend giving mouth to mouth he said I'd stopped breathing in my sleep. I wasn't scared by this I felt safe and happy. Right then I knew I was forgiven for my terrible mistake.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    i regrettably terminated my baby 2 days before  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   when my Nan spoke to me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my Nan spoke to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     everything was brighter and such as the clouds I could see every tiny detail

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    the music sounded echo-like and muffled yet I could still understand every word

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     in front of me my great grandparents, brother and my baby. I believe I was given the chance to know my child was safe but I was told it wasn't my time to die.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   it was seeping through big fluffy clouds but was still the most illuminating bright light I've ever seen as if I was close to the sun

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     all i saw was light and big fluffy pink clouds as if i were walking through them.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       extremely happy and safe although at one point felt rejected

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have since had a few dreams that have later came true

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I knew the baby was mine and that I was forgiven

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have since had a few dreams that have later came true

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        the baby I believe was the baby I had just terminated

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told people straight away all of my family believe in the afterlife so they thought it was amazing

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   TV and books

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     to this day I still believe it was real and it happened at a time of need when I was at a low point of my life

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     to this day I still believe it was real and it happened at a time of need when I was at a low point of my life

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I believe my baby was needed elsewhere and that is why spirit forgive me    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1simone_r_nde.html