{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1simona_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Simona V NDE 9756","mylang":"de"}
          	        Simona V NDE 9756  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Simona V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5273 Simona V NDE 9756  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On a beautiful sunny day in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho my little brother Thomas and I were playing in a neighborhood apartment swimming pool. I was 11years old and had not yet learned to swim. It was not for lack of trying on my parents part. They did their best and offered me many opportunities to take swimming lessons. I am sensitive to cold and fought the wisdom of acquiring this life saving skill. 

  This particular day the water was warm and inviting. At first me and my brother played in the shallow end. We dangled our feet in the water and splashed each other giggling and laughing with delight. Eventually, sunshine and boredom enticed us to actually sit in the water. 

  I noticed that the pool floor slanted downward. Curious: I stood up and exclaimed, 'Look Tommy, I can walk all the way to the deep end if I tilt my head up.'  Inching further and further down the incline, I was now on my tiptoes. 

  Then suddenly, I became submerged and watched the blue sky and air that was needed disappear.  

  Panic and terror lead to thrashing, flailing, limbs that moved as though they were disconnected. I had no idea of what to do. In my mind, I pleaded, 'How do I escape?' I was drowning in fear and the water!   Next, just like a light switching on, everything went from despair to complete and utter bliss! There was a brilliant sphere of light (this word does not give justice to what I witnessed) filled with sparkling colors and purity.  I had no fear. My body relaxed and felt nothing but joy. The thought, 'What was I so afraid of anyway?' entered my consciousness. Linear time ceased to exist. A need to rest beckoned me to sleep.

  When I woke up I was coughing out water on the pool walkway. A young Male college student was asking me if I was okay.

  I learned to swim within two weeks of this experience! There was even a newspaper story about me and my classmates’ swimming lessons at Lake Coeur d’Alene. Yes, the water was cold but I finally acquiesced to this necessity of life.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1976  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning.  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was drowning. I couldn't breathe. I died.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had no fear. My body relaxed and felt nothing but joy. The thought, 'What was I so afraid of anyway?' entered my consciousness. Linear time ceased to exist. My everyday consciousness was filled with fear and confusion.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I stopped fighting to breathe/escape being under the water and accepted the pure love and light that appeared before me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Linear time ceased to exist. A need to rest beckoned me to sleep.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Panic and terror lead to thrashing, flailing, limbs that moved as though they were disconnected. I had no idea of what to do. In my mind, I pleaded, 'How do I escape?' I was drowning in fear and water!  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything during. But prior I remember hearing my brother, the water and birds chirping.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a brilliant sphere of light (this word does not give justice to what I witnessed) filled with sparkling colors and purity.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The thought, 'what was I so afraid of anyway?' entered my consciousness. Linear time ceased to exist.  

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, bliss, comfort, safe and pure love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm aware that my actions and choices made while on this planet are important. We are all connected and need to help each other with our Earth lessons.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Later in life once I awareness and a vocabulary for the mystical.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     When the experience happened, I was a child and blindly followed what my parents insisted was religious truth. Later, as an adult, I was diagnosed with stage 4 cancer and spirituality became personal and important.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I lacked the emotional and spiritual awareness and vocabulary to understand let alone express aloud what had happened.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I have no doubt that our consciousness continues once our bodies and brains cease to function. I was given the gift of knowing there is nothing to fear about dying.  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right after it happened I only shared that some guy fished me out of the pool and helped me breath again. My parents thought it was funny and were grateful that I was at last motivated to learn to swim. Many years later, as I matured cognitively I was able to express what occurred while I was under the water. People with whom I have shared about my post death encounter have shown appreciation. They've been grateful for the hope my story inspires.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I remember thinking God wants me to learn to swim. I was only 11 years old.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Having a terminal illness has brought the reality of life ending someday to the forefront of my mind. I take comfort and even feel ready for the end once it is time. I love that I can share with others that we all continue with our consciousness intact!  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes in prayer I feel especially close to God and my angels. It brings me feelings of joy and security.  

fpejhqb           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1simona_v_nde.html