{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1simon_nde.html","mytitle":"Simon NDE 7243","mylang":"de"}
          	        Simon NDE 7243  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Simon NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3687 Simon NDE 7243  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't actually remember a large portion of the day prior to the event, and I still can't. I was working on deck on a private yacht, in a private marina. I vaguely remember arriving in the morning and eating lunch in the afternoon, and bits and pieces in between. At some point, I must have fallen overboard. My first memory was my fiancΘe coming to me. She was standing over me saying, 'Wake up Simon, you have to wake up'. I could see her face, calm but insistent. It was almost like I was late for work.

The next thing I remember, I am awake, face down in the lake with a mouth full of water. I cleared my lungs as I tried to swim toward the back of the boat. I got up on the back of the boat, climbed into the aft cockpit, and climbed onto the main deck. I was expecting to see my fiancΘe standing there. She was not. Obviously, I had sustained a moderate concussion. I also have a bruised hip, elbow and a baseball sized knot on the back of my head. I could not remember where I was, who I was or the events leading up to the event. I have had concussions in the past and knew the symptoms. 

The only thing I could remember was Kristi. I sat down, grabbed my phone, called her, and told her I needed help. Oddly enough, she had left work early and was only about 15 minutes away from the marina. When she got there, she said I was very lucky I called when I did. She was just about home, was going to shut her phone off, and take a nap. I told her the story. She had told me she had a feeling she needed to leave work early and did. 

I have been close to death a couple times before and had actually drowned as a small child. In all of those times, I have never experienced a vision, flying saucers, lights or tunnels, a deity or anyone coming to me. The only reason I am able to write this today is because of very special woman and my relationship with her. It is, and has been a firm belief of mine that we, as humans, possess a certain amount of telepathy (for lack of a better word). When we are close with loved ones or friends, we have a certain amount of 'connection'. If it is allowed to develop, the possibilities are endless in what we are capable of. I am LIVING proof.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  05/22/14

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Head trauma and possible drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my fiancΘe was there and I was face down in the water.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   Time was of no consequence other that Kristi's insistence that I wake up.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As normal, like being awakened from sleep, into reality.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Fiance, Very Alive

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       loveá

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   .II If it was not for Kristi coming to me and waking me up, I would have died.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     As stated above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It is as I have believed for quite some time. Regardless of the existence or nonexistence of a higher being, we have the ability as humans to become one with each other. Our minds are our only limitations. With the negative aspects that have been "learned

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It is simply a confirmation of what I have believed all along. Oneness can be achieved between two people and possibly the entire human race. Love is the key

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     There are many things that I wish to accomplish in this lifetime. I will be much more careful now. I have had that childlike invincibility quality for the whole of my life. This was too close for comfort. While I obviously have a guardian angel looking out for me, I choose not to test my luck near as much in the future.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Due to the lack of memory and the high emotion.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I was knocked unconscious at the time of the incidence. My experience was more real, and for the most part more accurate than anything that had happened previously that day.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It is pure proof that we are capable of a certain amount of telepathy within at the very least a relationship.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This is the next day from the experience. Kristi and I have a very special relationship. We truly do know what the other is thinking in many circumstances. This was proof. It may have been unconscious, but real none the less

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1simon_nde.html