{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1silvia_nde.html","mytitle":"Silvia NDE 3086","mylang":"de"}
          	        Silvia NDE 3086  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Silvia NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1111  Silvia NDE  3086  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in a school trip to Buenos Aires, Argentina with all my schoolmates. The bus driver lost control. The bus derailed and in the fall, I banged my head. When I was able to open my eyes, I saw a very intense blue light. After I saw it far away, I started to pass through a tunnel. At the same time I was walking, I was remembering all the moments I lived with my brother. When I reached again the light, I went through it again and I saw my brother (he died four years ago). I hugged him and after crying for some minutes, he looked at me and told me that I had not to cry for his death. That he died because it was his time and I had to live without laments. That he was fine there and that he was always taking care of me from that place. Suddenly, all started to back down and I was able to open my eyes, I was in the hospital with some doctors looking at me with an amazed face. Then, when I was recovered, they told me that I was in coma for two weeks. They practiced some handling to revive me and that they thought I was dead until I said a name. They came close to me and saw that I opened my eyes. The name I said was my brother's name.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    04/15/2007

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident. Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I believe all was normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I believe all was normal.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I was able to see the blue light clearly; usually this would be impossible due its excessive brightness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     After I saw the light for the first time in the experience, I passed through a tunnel.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were at the end of the tunnel. I knew one but I did not see the others clearly. The one I knew was my brother. He told me to do not cry any more for him. That he died because it was his time and that he was taking care of me from that dimension.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was blue, very intense, and so intense that in real life it would be impossible to see it easily.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     era otra dimension,al final del tunel, luego de pasar la luz, donde estaba mi hermano era un lugar muy bello.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt a deep pain in my heart which was pleasing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Because my brother died four years ago. Since then, I started to live my life without any sense. I wanted to leave my studies but my father forced me to continue with them. When I saw my brother in the experience he told me do not live in that way. I learnt that death is not bad. And if we cry for the dead people it's just because we believe that we cannot do anything and also because we feel ourselves defenseless before any attack, but they take care of us from their dimension.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I always have been able to feel or see things that are not normal. I have never felt alone even when I am alone. I feel people's energy when they come close to me. I can say things that come to my mind without knowing where I see them but they are real.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It changed my mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1silvia_nde.html