{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1silvan_nde.html","mytitle":"Silvan NDE 3900","mylang":"de"}
          	        Silvan NDE 3900  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Silvan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1843 Silvan NDE 3900  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the car taking my girlfriend home when I felt a growing pain in my right leg and I went into automatic as though something or the part of me that was conscious was preparing to leave my body without harming anybody else. I stopped the car, it was January and cold.  I opened all the car windows, started breathing in the cold air, and turned on the air conditioning.  I couldn't catch my breath. It felt as though I was fainting and I have fainted before, but this time, with the air conditioning pointed at my face, I pushed my car seat into the reclining position and stayed like that for about ten minutes.

Immobile, eyes open, no respiration, as confirmed by my girlfriend. And without thought, I'm always thinking, I am a very logical person yet in that moment I was without thought. All of a sudden, I felt so peaceful. I felt in a way I never felt before.  There was a deep peace.  The body no longer existed and it was as though it had never existed.  It was like none of my memories ever existed, pain never existed, memory of pain, no recollection of anything.  I only felt serenity and a white light all around me.  The light was blinding, a light cold in tone but warm. I don't know if I can succeed in making you understand, it's as though you have your arms wide open on a summer's night and your eyes closed and you feel the synchronicity of everything. 

Then a worried thought made me turn from where I was.  I knew that I would never have been able to return to earth without that worry that made me come back.  I don't know if it was the right thing to come back.

In any case, it was only in that instant when I returned that I felt the anxiety.  I was still coming back to the body, but at the same time, I was turned towards the place of serenity from whence I had come. 

I then found myself there reclining in my seat. And I began to observe, but quietly, peacefully, I watched my girlfriend turn towards me, she was seated, I saw my shoulders and my neck from below, I saw my girlfriend yelling, but I couldn't hear her. But that didn't interest me. I was at peace. I was returning. Without walking and without any sensation of movement I was returning to myself until I reached the surface of my body lying on the seat, until I and my body were reunited perfectly, and then I turned to my girlfriend and said why are you screaming. It was her screaming, terror, and her panic that had created the worry.

Now I have changed tremendously. At night, I used to be afraid to go to sleep, and I had pains in my body that I had never felt before. The following day the doctors examined me. They performed all kinds of tests on me, but all were normal.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  gennaio 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    un forte dolore alla gamba destra e conseguente cessazione controllata di ogni funzione vitale.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) ma non so se le mie funzioni cerebrali funzionavano

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was returning.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was returning.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed as though I was gone years, not ten minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see all around me without moving my head.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I spoke and knew another language, only sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I only passed through the seat.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An immense very powerful blinding light like a star but very near as though the light passed through me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I began analyzing my life and human existence, the laws that govern its existence, actions and reactions.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   nessuna

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   sento l'energia e mi riesco a connettere con l'anima alle persone. un piccolo se posso permettermi Dr. House

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We are all guinea-pigs, maybe there's hope for those who've had my experience not to become a guinea-pig.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am very direct now, cruder, more cynical, and nobody understands. And I don't care whether they understand.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Psychic thoughts. There's no particular situation, it's just that this event brought forth other senses in me and I can understand myself and others, but I am not happy about it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I described it above.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A year or two later, but I'm not sure, time doesn't exist for me anymore, I don't feel it pass, I am thirty-four years old and everything has stopped.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was afraid to go to sleep at night.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I consider it magnificent; I was never so much at peace. My greatest desire is still unfulfilled, the desire to not remember anything or anybody. And I would be there alone, with that joy within me which in this plane of being does not exist.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't judge it; I can only say that had it not been for my girlfriend making me return, I would not be here today.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I no longer fear death, at that moment you don't remember who you are, you are only afraid of death because you are afraid of the pain it will cause others, but in death you don't remember anything.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1silvan_nde.html