{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sigrid_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Sigrid Possible NDEs 5404","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sigrid Possible NDEs 5404  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sigrid Possible NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2979 Sigrid Possible NDEs 5404  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During my out of body experience, I was undergoing a surgery on my tonsils. I heard everything, but; I could not defend myself against someone, I could not move, nor could I make myself understood.  I felt panic and fear. Suddenly I saw myself sitting in a big chair, looking down from the ceiling and I heard everything that was said during my surgery. The next day, during hospital rounds, I told people, including my parents, about this event but nobody believed me. 

Years after that experience, I asked a technical surgery nurse if this tonsil surgery would be done in a chair.  She answered yes. This was like a confirmation for me that my experience from a long time ago was real and not an illusion.  

At the birth of my daughter, they had to remove the placenta because it didn't detach by itself. During the anesthesia while under the mask, I had another NDE. First, I saw myself move in a spiral towards a really bright light, and, at the same time, I saw my life running backwards at a fast speed. I also saw, or rather I felt very emotional remembrances and some of the experiences and very emotional reactions of people near to me. Everything happened very fast. When I arrived in this bright light, I was very warmly welcomed by a white light soul.  I was aware that I will die. Suddenly, I remembered that I have just given birth to a child, and that I cannot die in that very moment. In the same moment when I was thinking this, or maybe the light soul said this to me, I don't remember exactly which, I was catapulted backwards through the tunnel and in the next moment, I awoke. I remember very clearly, that the midwife looked at me in a very peculiar/dismayed way.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969 und 1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' '- Narkose - Entbindung (Hoher Blutverlust)'  High loss of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As a child; when I was on the ceiling.  As an adult; at the door sparkling from light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It feels compressed; without time and space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I was floating on the ceiling, I saw everything from a different perspective and very sharp. I saw an angel and he was extraordinary in his form and color.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything I heard was louder.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The being of light I would give the name 'Angel'. This being was very familiar to me. It spoke in a very friendly way and was kind to me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As a child; the light above on the ceiling in the surgery-room. As an adult, the bright light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Die Schwelle zum Jenseits.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A lot of happy and sad emotions and an emptiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The review was very fast but very emotional for me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was aware, from that moment, that there is no reason to fear death.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   katholisch

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I turned away from the roman-catholic church and I believe in reincarnation.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I turned away from the roman-catholic church and I believe in reincarnation.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that it would not be the moment for my death, because I had given birth in that moment and my daughter and my son would me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Material things were no longer really desirable. My feelings and affairs of the heart become more important.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   As a child I had an out of body experience and I had watched, from the ceiling, how they do the surgery. The doctors didn't believe me when I talked about what I had seen and heard.  During the birth of my daughter, I had another NDE but I didn't talk to anybody for a long time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Today, many years after the event, I have the gift of clear knowledge, clear feeling and sometime I'm also clairvoyant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I was a child, I told of my experience next day.  When I was an adult, it was many months (I don't remember exactly).

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I was a child, they told me that what happened wasn't real. As an adult, I didn't know if the experience was a dream or a side effect from the anesthesia.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     In between these experiences I have had several mystic events, so I can distinguish this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Kethela, Anesthesia

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sigrid_possible_nde.html