{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1silvia_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Silvia A NDE 5209","mylang":"de"}
          	        Silvia A NDE 5209  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Silvia A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2726 Silvia A NDE 5209  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the beginning, I was choking. I was in a lot in anguish, because of the lack of oxygen. 

The quiet then slowly took over, giving way to a beautiful peace mixed with happiness. I heard the doctors say, 'She has become gray, we are losing her,' but it was as if they were talking about another person. 

I wondered why there was so much excitement. I was in that wonderful peace, where I could not even imagine the pain. I felt my consciousness hovering over the doctors' heads, as if I were preparing to leave my body. Then they got the tube in again, and I returned to my normal state. As I returned, I felt all the pain of that body and I regretted the lost peace.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Inserimento di canula in trachea  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   My trachea had collapsed and I was choking. Luckily, I was in the hospital and, after several attempts, they got a tube in, and I was able to breathe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I had risen to a little above myself and the doctors. And that's when my experience stopped.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time, there was only happiness and peace.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was brighter.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       As I said, I was quiet, peaceful, serene and happy, as I had never been before.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Cattolico

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   praticante yoga

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was very peaceful, and it was so beautiful.  But these are not the kinds of experiences that are perceptible in ordinary consciousness here on earth. That makes them hard to express in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Suffering before death is not so painful. The sense of suffocation did not last long. Before I died, I had always been afraid of suffering at the time of death. Now I have learned that it is a small thing, especially since you forget it immediately, as if it never existed - including psychological problems, old habits - everything of life disappears, giving way to happiness and peace.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked about it after a few days. People were interested, but I do not know if they have been influenced in any way.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read something on the Internet and seen television programs about it.  No, I was definitely not affected by the things I had seen about NDEs, because I didn't have the ability to imagine that kind of happiness.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Shortly after it happened (days or weeks) I saw the experience as definitely real. It is real because you cannot even imagine such a feeling of peace and prosperity. I could never create it again with my poor faculties.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as definitely, positively real, as I already mentioned. It made me overcome my fear of death, the Last Judgment and suffering before I die.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   By practicing Kryia Yoga, it is possible to reach similar conditions. The ordinary consciousness sometimes tries to merge with the divine consciousness through special meditative techniques.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Some questions are repetitive.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1silvia_a_nde.html