{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1silvia_c_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Silvia C Possible NDE 5462","mylang":"de"}
          	        Silvia C Possible NDE 5462  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Silvia C Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3613 Silvia C Possible NDE 5462  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was just 8 years old when I was in my bed alone. I saw myself in the bed and could feel that something was going to happen, something that would change my life forever. My perception had changed. I was just under the blanket in the supine position, when I began to feel a form of distortion, a sense of tingling. I move out of my body as if I were inside a shell from which I'm going out. I slid away from my bed and was projected to the top (ceiling). I did not see the outside of my house, but I directly saw a world different from our beloved planet Earth. It was as if I had gone through the room for one or two-meters to a door that didn't open into our garden but directly into a tunnel. Yet, my little body was still under the blanket. The feeling was Wonderful. I could feel whiteness, warmth, love and a scent that I have never smelled on the earth. Within a few moments, I was out. 

I was out of my body and I felt very well. I could see a light 'surface' in front of me! Nothing on earth had the same consistency. It was very nice and pleasant and I felt surrounded by so much love. I wanted to remain in the light 'surface' that I perceived as a Tunnel. While I perceived it, I moved further away from my bed and I went into the tunnel. But after a while, something threw me back into my little body and what I heard in my thoughts was 'this is not your time'. I started to feel different pains in my body and I realize that I had come back. The memory of the Tunnel is indelibly in me, I remember everything in detail because I was awake. 

I had never fallen asleep during the whole period of the experience. After the experience, it was as if I went into the kitchen to get a glass water, I remembered everything that clearly. My fever had risen and I was just going without wishing to return to Earth. I feel personally marked by this event. It is only the first significant experience that I remember in detail. In the years after this experience, amazing things followed, some of them less fantastic but all-important. I struggled with myself for many years. Upon waking every morning, the first thing I did was look at my body and every time I said, 'I'M STILL HERE IN THIS BODY' with a sense of 'I WANT TO BE IN THE WORLD OF SPIRITS, OF THE SOULS.'  I do not know what to call it because it only changes the consistency and the relationship with the things that surround us. Anyway, today I say, 'If it had not been for that experience, maybe today I would have been one of many people who fight for the flesh, for the power and the pleasure of  HAVING instead of BEING. I prefer to love with the knowledge of this experience that I bring with me since over 35 years. I AM A BODY, AN ENTITY, A 'DECLARATION OF INTELLIGENCE'. I'm not just a physical body. I'm an Entity housed in a heavy, physical body. Our dear human body that we love so much and sometimes we do not consider it. It is with us throughout the period of earthly life. For this reason, I believe in the spirit, in the soul, in the immortal world. This is only my first spiritual experience.

Silvia

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      Other: Risveglio al mattino

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes, totally conscious.  More consciousness and alertness than normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I've always been a believer in the soul and in its abilities beyond the 5 senses, but that we have always been led to believe are the only ones to refer.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I've always been a believer in the soul and in its abilities beyond the 5 senses, but that we have always been led to believe are the only ones to refer.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have learned how to live with human beings, but my tendency is not earthly. Sometimes I struggle very hard to understand the reason of all these violent attitudes, knowing that the universe has a lot to offer to every being.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       High consciousness, I don't drink, don't do drugs. I treasure my mental alertness too. I'm always in total consciousness. I talk about of the consciousness of the soul.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1silvia_c_possible_nde.html