{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sid_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"<\/section>","mylang":"de"}
</section>            	        Sid M Probable NDE 4736  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sid M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2398 Sid M Probable NDE 4736  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I knew I was before God in total darkness and that God was blocking my entrance into heaven. I desperately wanted into heaven but on an intuitive rather than rational level. At this time, I was happily married with two very small children and a family very dependent on my career yet the 'pull' of heaven was very powerful. I pleaded for entrance but the voice of God said, 'No, not yet!'

Later, when I spoke to an acquaintance, who had investigated and found me, he said, 'It was freaky, you were awake and talking. When I saw the blood coming from your ears, I got nervous and left to get help.' I was shocked because I had no memory of talking with him or of the accident itself. In hindsight, he did not say that I was talking to him.

I was able to piece together the accident from second-hand accounts: there had been a light snowfall and black ice; I was driving past a service station on the Alaskan Highway south of Fort Nelson when the vehicle in front of me slowed down forcing me to apply my brakes and sending me into a spin on the approaching lane. A truck coming from the opposite direction hit me in my spin, sending me off the road. This incident led to a new ruling in insurance claims for 'no fault' accidents.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  January (11th?) 1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Other not clinically verified  Unconscious after serious car accident in which car was knocked off the road into a field - car totaled, was freed by fire department using 'jaws of life' technology.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am not sure what you mean by high level consciousness/alertness. I remember being extremely aware of heaven behind a great darkness and presence before me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had no vision. This appeared to be auditory because of the darkness.  While my thoughts appeared normal to me in the experience, after the experience, I noted signs of serious brain damage including time dilation, and fading in and out of consciousness, an inability to connect the pain of broken ribs to reality, a lack of rational thought, and complete lack of social inhibition. Afterward, I hallucinated, especially during the first month. These were clearly not like the experience itself but more consistent with psychosis of a temporary nature. I was essentially normal again one and a half months after the accident. My desire to 'help the Church in Japan' came to me after this for no apparent reason, although I did feel freed of my materialism at this time (post-accident, post-brain damage). I am associating the strange desire to 'help' with the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only the presence of God. Communication as described above.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation and desperation followed by confusion, disappointment and embarrassment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     No, I could not cross.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     For a considerable time, I felt charged to help the Church in Japan. Prior to this, I had no desire to be a missionary. Because of this, I was one for four years, ending in our return to Canada in March 2001.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     For a considerable time, I felt charged to help the Church in Japan. Prior to this, I had no desire to be a missionary. Because of this, I was one for four years, ending in our return to Canada in March 2001.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Certainty I was before God and blocked from heaven.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I was hurt at the tone of God's 'voice'; he seemed disappointed in me. This bothered me for a long time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I could coherently communicate with others. They thought I was still suffering from mental damage. Later, individuals just accepted what I said but were not particularly encouraging (wishing, I believe, to change the topic). Very few were excited. Those who were shared similar beliefs of heaven.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I remember hearing stories. I had not heard of NDE but of dying and coming back. Generally, from people of a religious nature. Yes, a desire or certain will to 'help the Church in Japan.'

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believed with a certainty it happened. After all of the time that has passed, I still believe it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a water-shed moment in my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It seems dramatically different from most experiences you addressed in your book. I have added this experience to your list because of the apparent disparity. I wonder if there are influences, other-worldly certainly, but of less than benign intent, deliberately attempting to mislead people who find themselves in this fragile state of consciousness (a state you refer to as unconscious).

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Do you believe in a personal, loving Creator?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sid_m_probable_nde.html