{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 5369 9134 7025","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v4_6_march_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V4 March 6 1886","mylang":"de"}
1886.] On Some Physical, Phenomena. 25
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Saturday, March 6, 1886.
The nineteenth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, on
Saturday, March 6, 1886.
PROFBSSOR SIDGWICK, VICE-PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
The following paper was read :-
II.
ON SOME PHYSICAL PHENOMENA, COMMONLY CALLED
SPIRITUALISTIC, WITNESSED BY THE AUTHOR.
By PROFBSSOR W. F. BARRETI'.
In the printed statement of the objects of this Society, one of the
subjects which the Society was founded to investigate is described as
follows :_U An inquiry into the various phenomena, commonly called
• Spiritualistic,' with lion attempt to discover their causes and general
laws."
Whether Spiritualism be regarded as worthy or unworthy of serious
inquiry depends, to a large extent, upon the place where each person
draws the boundary line that, in his opinion, divides the possible from
the impossible. There are some things upon which it would be sheer
folly for any intelligent man to waste his time, such as circle squaring,
or a search for the perpetual motion. These and such like things are
placed beyond the pale of rational investigation at the present day by the
extent of our already existing knowledge in those particular regions.
There are, however, other matters which appear impossible, not from
the range of our knowledge, but from the e:z:tent of our ignorance in
those directions. Under this class of improbable phenomena might be
included such things as fireballs, the sea-serpent, thought-transference,
and what is known by the name of Spiritualistic phenomena; a few
years ago the telephone a.nd the phonograph would also doubtless have
been here included. The essential difference between the two classes
of improbable events is thllot the first involves a contradiction of laws
which investigation has well established, whilst the second ;nVlIlvfilll~
~-lJigltlzed 5YX5uuo<"
26 On &nne Physical Phe'1W'1nena. [March 6,
contrAdiction, but only an extension of our knowledge in an unfore-
seen direction.
Forgetful of this broad distinction, some of our Members and
Associates consider Spiritualism a subject so contemptible, because to
them it is intrinsically impossible, that it ought not to have been
included within the objects of our Society. I would venture to beg
such of our friends to read the two masterly addresses which, as
the first President, Professor H. Sidgwick delivered at the foundation
of this Society, or Professor De Morgan's inimitable preface to a volume
called From jlatter to Spirit.
On the other hand some of our friends have gone to the other
extreme, and vigorously express their opinion that the subject of
Spiritualism should have occupied the first place in the programme of
our operations. They urge that in importance and interest this sub-
ject surpasses all the other problems included within the scope of
Psychical Research, and they complain that the Society has dis-
played far too great caution and reserve in dealing with a class of
phenomena that has received the attestation of men of indubitable
scientific repute, bOth at home and abroad. To such I have only to
say that the Council of this Society recognised from the outset the
interest that is attached to this question, a.nd soon after the foundation
of the Society a committee was organised for the purpose of investi-
gating Spiritualistic phenomena. If no report of this Committee has
been published, this has arisen not from any disregard of the import-
ance of this subject on the part of the Council, but simply because the
Committee itself has failed to make any report. I, for one, regret
this omission, which no doubt arose from the Committee being unable
to obtain any conclusive evidence. But I think it would have been
better if a report, even of repeated non-success in obtaining trust-
worthy evidence, had been drawn up and duly presented to the Society.
The failures of one generation are the stepping stones to success in the
next, and in a subject so obscure and so full of pitfalls as that which
goes under the name of Spiritualism, it is desirable that each investi-
gator should state, with judicial fairness and scientific exactness, the
conditions and the results of every experiment. Moreover, if the first
instalment of evidence had been unfavoura.ble to Spiritualism it would
lead the public to have more confidence in the sincerity of purpose
which animates us all, than if we only published evidence that told in
favour of the marvellous.
I an} aware that this is not the usual scientific method; thousands
of experiments are made which never see the light simply because they
have a negative result as regards the particular object of search. It is
not worth publishing these, for all that could be said would be that no-
thing has been found, out that was not perfectW9il".!iMy§m~re. But
1886.] On &mte Physical Phe1wmena. 27
the psychological problem before us is of a different character. We
cannot at pleasure command the instruments necessary for the inquiry,
for they are living beings asserted to be comparatively few in number;
hence, whenever it is claimed that with such and such an instrument
such and such results ensued, I think our primary duty is to obtain
permission to submit the instrument to a rigid, though it should also be
a perfectly courteous and friendly examination. If the results of an
adequate examination of say one or two dozen such living instruments
of note show that in no single instance do they exhibit any phenomena
new to science, then I, for one, think that we should publish this
negative evidence, and, leaving Spiritualism aside, pass on to other
more profitable fields of inquiry. Conclusive evidence unfavourable to
Spiritualism has not yet been made public by any competent body of
investigators, or by any single authority.l The sorry stuff that in
general passes as criticism of any unfamiliar psychological phenomenon
can only be explained by the general hurry in which everybody lives,
so that the critics have no time ,to investigate or even to read the
evidence which they profess to criticise.
Experience shows that the real difficulty with Spiritualism is in
arriving at sufficiently conclusive evidence pointing one way or the
other. Non-professional instruments or mediums are difficult of access ;
professional mediums-~who make a living by their powers--are, very
naturally, open to the charge of being conjurers in disguise, who can
fail, without discredit, whenever they are too closely watched, and it is
notorious how helpless an ordinary mortal is in the hands of a clever
conjurer. But I think the difficulty of arriving at conclusive evidence
has by some been over-estimated. Conjurers have not super-human
skill. Let llS obtain from the best authorities on conjuring the limits
of what they deem possible in their art ; then if, after imposing our own
private tests in our own private rooms, results are obtained which con-
1 Since the foregoing was written Mrs. Sidgwick has read an account of
her prolonged pe1'8onal investigation into the physical phenomenaof Spiritualism,
and the conclusion arrived at is distinctly adve1'8e to the genuineness of the
phenomena she witnessed. But though Mrs. Sidgwick's adve1'8e testimony is the
most damaging blow which Spiritualism, or rather a certain cl&88 of Spiritualistic
phenomena, has yet received, it will be noticed that M1'8. Sidgwick is careful to
point out that her evidence is not conclusive of the whole question; on the
contrary, she expressly states, in the last paragra.ph of her able paper, that her
own view is that .. it is more probable than not that such things [that is the so-
called Spiritualistic phenomena] do OCC&8ionally occur." Every lover of tmth
must feel grateful to M1'8. Sidgwick for her laborious and valuable inquiry.
At the 8&nle time one cannot but regret that some of the simpler physical
phenomena, occurring with unpaid mediums, were not accessible to M1'8.
Sidgwick. It is to be hoped that if any reader of this paper knows of the
existence of such manifestations he ,,;11 at once communicate with the
Hon. Secretary of the S.P.R. Digitized by Googie
28 On Bonte PhYsWlll Phenonte'YUL. [March 6,
siderably surpass the limits of conjuring, and are otherwise inexplicable,
we should be encouraged to persevere until a mass of evidence had
been obtained commensurate with the very great antecedent improba-
bility of the phenomena themselves. It is because I know much has
already been done in this direction by men of high scientific position,
such as, e.g., the late Professor De Morgan, and Professor Zollner, and
M.r. Crookes, that I feel it is worth making a strenuous effort to obtain
more evidence of the kind. Hence, at the risk of incurring scientific
odium,-and I may add with much personal dislike to the subject itself
-I feel it my duty to reiterate publicly my conviction that at any
rate some of the simpler phenomena of Spiritualism are inexplicable by
any causes at present recognised by science. The object of the present
paper is to place on record some of the evidence upon which that con-
viction is based. I am not so foolish as to suppose anything I can say
will make an appreciable difference in public opinion, or that my testi-
mony is superior to, or ought to have more weight attached to it, than
that of several other observers. But it will, I hope, lead some of our
members and friends to come forward and inform us of any unexcep-
tionable evidence they possess, until "we drive the objector into the posi-
tion of being forced to admit the phenomena as inexplicable, at least by
him, or to accuse the investigators either of lying, or of cheating, or of
a blindness, or forgetfulness, incompatible with any intellectual condi-
tion except absolute idiocy."
I freely admit that very much of what passes among some
Spiritualists as evidence has really no claim at all to this distinction,
except as being evidence of the difficulty of preserving a soundjudgment
when dealing with these phenomena. How far my own judgment is at
fault is not for me to decide. It is impossible for anyone to be entirely
free from mental bias, but so far as I can I have striven to be an
impartial witness to phenomena coming within the scope of my own
observation.
Reviewing the numerous public and private seances which I have
attended with different private and professional mediums, during the
last 15 years, I find that by far the larger part of the results obtained
have absolutely no evidential value in favour of Spiritualism: either the
condition of total darkness forbade any trustworthy conclusions, or the
results were nothing more than could be explained by a low order
ofjuggling. A few cases, however, stand out as exceptions j the ones I
will cite occurred in the years 1875 and 1876. Though notes of the
cases to be cited were taken at the time, the evidence is, I admit,
fragmentary and somewhat remote in time. This partly arises from my
lessened interest in the phenomena and partly from the difficulty of
obtaining anything like satisfactory evidence. I should add, moreover,
that moral considerations also weigh with mej owiml_to ,the constant
Digitized by ~.Y\.JO(SH::
1886.] On SO'm.e Physical PJumomena. 29
recrudescence of fraud on the part of many mediums with whom I sat,
it became with me a doubtful question whether the gain to science was
worth the moral risk to which one exposed the paid medium. The
temptation to fraud on the part of the medium is of course very great,
as must always be the case when a man's livelihood depends on the
recurrence of phenomena. which if genuine are out of his own control.
In the tirst two of the cases I am about to describe there was
certainly no pecuniary inducement to fraud, as the sittings were with
private family circles, and in none of the cases to be cited was
there total darkness, that easy adjunct of fra.ud; furthermore, the
phenomena occurring in all these cases were of so simple a cha.racter,
the same thing being several times repeated, that one's a.ttention was
not distracted by the occurrence of various noyel and unexpected
results.
The first C!'88 I will describe came under my notice a year or two
after I went to reside i~ Ireland. A solicitor, Mr. C., with his wife
and family, had come to reside for the season in the suburban house
of a friend and neighbour of mine, an Irish country gentleman, who had
an utter disbelief in Spiritualism. I was, therefore, not a little amused,
upon making Mr. C.'s acquaintance, to find that he had in his
own family what appeared to be Spiritualistic phenomena actually
then and there going on. When Mr. C. found I was interested in
the matter, he kindly permitted me every opportunity of close a.nd
frequent investigation. The following observations, noted at the time,
were in part published in a review I was then engaged in writing,
and also referred to in the course of a paper which I read before the
British Association at Glasgow, in 1876.1 They embrace the record of
numerous sittings, extending through the months of August and
Sept6mher, 1875. Present, besides myself, Mr. and Mrs. C. and their
young daughter F., a bright, frank, and intelligent child then about ten
years old. Time, 10 a.m. We sat at a large dining-room table facing
the French windows, which let in a flood of sunlight, so that the sitters'
feet as well as hands could be perfectly seen. Shortly a sort of scraping
sound was heard on the surface of the table, the sound moving about,
but was loudest when near the medium F. Raps were also heard,
sometimes on the table, sometimes appearing to come on the backs of
the chairs on which we sat. F.'s hands and feet were closely watched ;
they were absolutely motionless when the sounds were heard. After a
few sittings the sounds grew in loudness, often being as loud as, and
very much resembling, the hammering of small nails into a floor. They
came more readily and more loudly when music was played, or a merry
song struck up. Usually they kept time with the music, and altogether
1 See Proo!Uding, S.P.R. vol. 1, p.238. DigitizedbyGoogle
30 On 8~ Physical Pherwrnena. [March 6,
displayed a singular degree of intelligence. Sometimes a loud rhythmic
scraping, as of a violoncello bow on a piece of wood, would accompany
the music. Again and again I placed my ear on the very spot on the
table whence this rough fiddling appeared to proceed, and felt distinctly
the rhythmic vibration of the table, but no tangible cause was visible
either above or below the table. Experiments were made on the possi-
bility of localising sounds such as were heard, and so far as my
experiments went, I found that I could tell, approximately, the
position where a knock was made by a friend hidden underneath a large
table. The ability to localise a sound depends very much on the nature
of the sound. The sounds made by a siren or by a singing Bame are
extremely difficult to localise, they may be anywhere about the room j
but I feel pretty confident that the knocks and scraping sounds
proceeded from a source certainly within II. foot or two of the position
assigned. Now I noticed particularly that the sounds-though fainter,
it is true, than when near-were sometimes heard far away from the
medium. On one occasion, when no one else was in the room, and it
was broad daylight as usual, I asked my young friend the medium to
put her hands against the wa.ll and see how far she could stretch her
feet back from the wa.ll without tumbling down. This she did, and
whilst in this constrained position-with the muscles of the arms and
legs all in tension-I asked for the knocks to come. Immediately a
brisk pattering of raps followed my request. All the while the child
remained quite motionless. My reason in making this experiment was
to test the late Dr. Carpenter's muscular theory of the cause of the
sounds. Had Dr. Carpenter been present, I feel sure he would have
admitted that here, at any rate, that theory fell through. Besides
knocks there were occasional movements of the furniture. Seated one
day at a large dining-room table, in full sunlight, Florrie and Mr. and
Mrs. C. and myself being present, all our fingers visibly resting on the
surface of the table, three legs of the table rose off the ground to a
sufficient height to allow me to put my foot easily beneath the castor
nearest me. Attempts to move the table by muscular effort, under
similar conditions, entirely failed; it could be pushed about, not raised.
On one occasion I asked that the knocks should come upon a small table,
the medium being seated neal'" to, but not touching the table. The
BOunds occurred as requested, and I placed one hand Bat on the upper
surface of the table, and the other on the under surface, and in this
position I felt, or thought I felt, the slight jarring made by the taps on
that part of the table enclosed between my hands. The sounds
frequently occurred, as I have said, when the child was the only person
present in the room besides myself. Under such conditions they
occurred when I made her lie on a sofa and firmly held her hands and
feet. On any occasion, upon repeating the lIi~pJ~~~uld occur
1886.] On Bome Physical Pke'lW'Tne1UL. 31
at certain letters. Thus I was told that a lad named " Walter Hussey "
was the invisible person engaged in making the sound•.
Though there was manifest intelligence in the sounds, it was a
childish intelligence, and a hasty observer might therefore jump to the
conclusion that it was the little medium herself playing tricks; and he
would find incidents which might give a plausible support to his conclu-
sion. Thus one day a word was misspelt by raps, exactly as the child
would have misspelt that word, as I afterwards ascertained. Yet I can
only say tha.t a long and careful examination convinced me that trickery
on the pll.rt of the child was a more improbable hypothesis than that
the sounds proceeded from some unknown agency.
Nor could the sounds be accounted for by trickery on the part
of the servants in the house, for in addition to my careful inquiries
on this point, Mr. C. informed me that he had obtained the raps
on the handle of his umbrella out of doors, when the child was
by his side, and that the music master complained of raps pro-
ceeding from inside the pianoforte whenever the child was listless or
inattentive at her music lesson. Mrs. C. told me thll.t almost every
night she heard the raps by the bedside of her child when she went to
bid her child good night; and that after she had left the room and
partially closed the door, she would hear quite an animated conversation
going on between her daughter and her invisible companion, the child
rapidly spelling over the alphabet, and the raps occurring at the right
letters, and the child thus obtaining, with surprising rapidity, a clue to
the words spelt out.
Still more violently improbable is the supposition that the parents
of the child were at the bottom of the mystery, stimulated by a desire
to impress their friends with the wonderful but imaginary gifts their
child possessed. The presence of the parents was flOe necessary for the
occurrence of the sounds which, as I have said, often took place when I
was the only person in the room besides the child.
Hallucination was the explanation which suggested itself to my own
mind when first I heard of the phenomena, but was dismissed as wholly
inapplicable after the first day's inquiry; nor do I think anyone could
maintain that different people, individually and collectively, for some
weeks thought they heard and saw a series of sounds and motions
which had no objective existence.
No! I was then, and am still, morally certain that the phenomena
had a real existence outside oneself, and that they were not produced by
trickery or by known causes, hence I confess I could come to no other
conclusion than that we had here a class of phenomena wholly new to
science.l In reviewing the evidence the critic must, however, make what
I It may be urged that the occult phenomena alleged by the Theosophists
were of this mexplicabJe character, and believed in by nnm9~~b~~~et
32 On &mu Physical Phenomerut. [March 6.
allowance he thinlrs proper for my mental bias during the investigation,
and further take into account the hypothesis that some children do
exhibit an amazing passion for deceiving their elders, and some possess
an extraordinary love of notoriety. For instance, I could a tragic
tale unfold where these causes led a clever boy, in good position in
society, and of juvenile piety, for twelve months to deceive his father, a
distinguished surgeon, and all his family, by pretended Spiritualistic
manifestations, which appeared at first sight inexplicable until the
cunning trickery of the lad was discovered. But the two cases radica.lly
differ in this, that after examination by an outsider one case hopelessly
broke down, the other did not. In the one case the phenomena were
not beyond the capacity of a clever and wicked child, in the other the
phenomena were, I venture to think, beyond the capacity even of the
most clever and diabolical child. It was in assuming the goodness of
their child that one family were misled; no such assumption was made
in the other case, for the parents sensibly enough punished their child
when the phenomena first broke out.
After some three months the sounds disappeared as unexpectedly as
they had arisen. Assuming Miss C. to be an accomplished trickster
animated by the love of notoriety, one would not expect the phenomena
to droop and die away when constant practice had made the trick easy,
and when the acme of success, as regards the growing interest of friends
and the attention paid to herself, was within the performer's reach.
In a letter which I received a few days ago from Mrs. C., she
writes :-
Florrie hlUl never had any return of her mediumship since 1875, when
we were in Ireland. It died 8. sudden death there and then. I WIUI not
sorry for it, for I feared that had it continued when ahe WIUI growing up, it
would probably have developed more than we cared for or than WIUI good
for heraelf. Of the genuinenesa of the phenomena. I have never had the
slightest doubt, then or now.
And in a subsequent letter Mrs. C. gives her opinion which, though
I do not agree with it, I quote :-
I have no doubt that the intelligence which manifested WIUI outside
the circle, and though my mere conviction on such a matter is, of course.
quite valuele88, I still believe it WIUI a so-called .. spirit" totally disconnected
from ouraelves, and dominating her for a tinie. The manifestations were
often violent, and for the moat part very frivolous in their nature. I thought
and honest men. Neverthelesa, after Mr. Hodgson's investigation in India no
other conclusion is poBBible but that the High PriesteBB of Theosophy, Madame
Bla.vatsky-rouml whom these marvela cluatered,-is one of the moat "accom-
plished impostors in history." But what are the facts! Directly circumspect
and painstaking investigation WIUI brought to bear upon these phenomena they
were found to be fraudulent. and the mystery collapeed. G I
Digitized by oog e
1886.] On Some Physical Phe'1/,Q'1M'na. 33
therefore they could bring no advantage to the Bitten to counterbalance
the diaadvantage to my daughter, then a mere child and eaaily excited.
Hence, when the phenomena ceaaed I waa not BOrry for it on her account.l
The next case, which I will cite, is of somewhat le88 evidential value,
as my opportunities for testing the phenomena under varying conditions
were not so great j but the case is of interest owing to the medium
being a middle-aged lady in private life, who found this abnormal
power gradually develop in her presence. In the spring of 1877, I was
informed by a Mr. L., a well-known photographer in Dublin, that his
cousin, MiBB I., had mediumistic power, and I was invited to her houae
to make a careful investigation. I went a great many times during the
spring and autumn of 1877, and took notes of what occurred. In moder-
ate gaslight, enough to see to read small print, knocks and spasmodic
movements of the table at which we sat occurred, and long religious
meSB&ges were rapidly spelt out, sometimes by raps, sometimes by quick
tilting of the table, which latter may, however, be disregarded, as it is
impoBBible to eliminate the effects of unconscious muscular action
except by a clear space intervening between the hands and the table,
which was not the case here as a rule. I will quote the record of one
.nce on May 10, 1877. There were present only myself, Mr. L., and
Mi88 I. The seance took place at Mr. L.'s house in the evening, one
gaslight burning in the room. Seated at 0. small table, tiny raps soon
occurred, like the ticking of a hard point on the oil cloth which covered
the floor of the room. I confined my attention to these, and begged
Miss I. to move to a larger and heavier table, some 4 feet square, and
to adjust her dreBB so that I could see her feet. This she did. I sat
close by her, carefully watching her feet and hands, which were however
quite motionle88.
Presently loud raps Wtlre given Hot this table beneath the hands of
the sitters, so loud, in fact, they quite startled me. In character the
sounds in general resembled the snapping noises occasionally made by
furniture when the joints open under the heat of a room. But the
sharpest and loudest cracks can be well imitated in strength and
character by smartly striking a table with the edge of an ivory
paper-knife. In obedience to my request a definite nq.mber of knocks
were given: four double knocks were asked for and given j knocks
were asked to indicate the number of fingers held open, and were
correctly given j in two instances this was tried and correctly done
1 Both Mr. and Mrs. C. were preaent when this paper waa read. Mr. C.
quite corroborated the opinion given by his wife of the genuineneAA of the
phenomena, and informed me of several other remarkable phennmena, in
connection with the mediumahip of his daughter, which had not come under my
notice. G I
Digitized by o~ e
34 On Some PkysU:al Pke'M'f1l,6'1l,(1,. [Ma.rch 6,
when I held my hand out of sight, so tha.t the opened fingers were known
to no one but myself. Knocks of different kinds were now hea.rd all
over the ta.ble ; they kept time to the whistling of a tune, and showed
an a.ctuating intelligence that wa.s most undeniable.
Addressing the ta.ble, I now a.sked if knocks could be given without
the conta.ct of the hand. Three knocks in reply were to be the signal
for yes. Three knocks quickly came. The hands of both Mr. L. and
Miss I. were now held up, and whilst they partially withdrew from the
ta.ble, the knocks still came, not so vigorously, but still there they were.
This went on for some minutes, till they cea.sed to be heard. A refresher
wa.s then given in the shape of a few moments' conta.ct with the hands.
Once more the knocks returned, and continued some time after the
hands were removed.
Whilst noticing these facts, I observed a frequent unea.sy movement
of the entire ta.ble, and now it sidled about in a most surprising
manner. Lifting their hands completely oft'the ta.ble, the sitters placed
themselves back in their chairs with their hands folded a.cross their
chests; their feet were in full view, and under these conditions, and in
obedience to my request, the ta.ble raised the two legs nea.rest to me
completely off the ground, some 8 or 10 inches, and thus suspended
itself for a few moments. Again a similar a.ct wa.s performed on the
other side. Next came a very unexpected occurrence. Whilst
absolutely free from the conta.ct of every person the ta.ble wriggled itself
backward and forward, advancing towards the arm-chair in which I
sat, and ultimately completely imprisoning me in my sea.t. During its
progress it wa.s followed by Mr. L. and Miss I., but they were at no
time touching it, and occasionally were so dista.nt that I could perceive
& free spa.ce all round the ta.ble whilst it wa.s still in motion. When
thus under my very nose the ta.ble rose repea.tedly, and enabled me to
be perfectly sure by the evidence of touch that it wa.s oft' the ground,
and, further, that no human being, consciously or unconsciously, had
any part in this movement.
This sitting la.sted two and a.-half hours altogether. The results, it
is true, were very remarka.ble and una.ccounta.ble ; but though I had not
the slightest doubt of the good faith of Mr. L. and Miss I., yet I do not
adduce this evidence a.s unexceptionable. I should have preferred to
have ta.ken precautions which were not so ea.sy to impose on ala.dy, and
I should also have preferred to have had the seance in my own house.
This latter objection wa.s met by Mr. L. and Miss I. coming to my own
house in the first week of September, 1877, and as before we three were
the only persons present. The time wa.s the afternoon, and there was
plenty of daylight. Though the drawing-room wa.s carpeted, the curious
ticking sounds a.gain occurred; these soon developed into louder raps,
always in the neighbourhood of the medium,.but I 9Quld nqi; discover
Digitized by ~oo8le
1886.] On &me Physical Phenomena. 35
the slightest movement of the muscles of the hands or feet which
would account for the sounds; nor were they mufBed, but clear
and distinct raps. There was always a remarkable intelligence and
often a jocosity about the sounds, a.nd when a tune was played on the
piano the raps kept time to it. Suddenly, only the tips of our fingers
being on the table, the heavy 100 table at which we were sitting made a
series of very violflnt prancing movements (which I could not imitate
afterwards except by using both hands and all my strength); the
blows were so heavy that I hurriedly stopped the performance, fearing
for the safety of the gas chandelier in the room below.
Here, too, I cannot avoid the conclusion that the phenomena
described are inexplicable on any known hypothesis. It is true the
character of the pious platitudes spelt out by the table were just such
as the medium herself (a Methodist) would be likely to concoct; and it
waa quite possible or even probable that unintentional muscular move-
ments on her part caused the table to tilt and spell out these pla.titudes.
Nor must we exclude from our view two considerations, first, how very
difficult if not impossible it is to keep up a continuous vigilant watch
on the hands and feet of any person-the whole of legerdemain is based
upon this known failure in our habits of observation; and second (though
there was no reason to suppose Miss I. was suffering from this malady),
we must remember the extraordinary vagaries of hysteria: even
experienced physicians have sometimes been led astray by the morbid
and amazing cunning of patients suffering from this disease. But
supposing that Miss I. had some ingenious mechanism concealed about
her person whereby she could, by an imperceptible movement of her
body, produce the sounds that were heard, this explanation would fail
to account for the undoubted motion of a heavy table free from the
contact of all present. After giving due weight to every known
explanation, the phenomena remain inexplicable to me, but each reader
will form his independent opinion, which will be so much the more
valuable than mine as his knowledge is larger and his experience of
these phenomena wider than mine.
With some hesitation I will now adduce a case of another order,
namely, with a paid professional medium, who has since become well-
known for his slate-writing performances, and who is therefore either an
accomplished trickster or the possessor of most wonderful occult power.
This is, therefore, a case wherein I should like to have had the co-opera.
tion and opinion of a good conjurer; I confess I distrust my own
judgment. I will, however, endeavour to describe what occurred as
faithfully 3S my notes of the performance admit. My principal reason
for citing this case is that it affords an illustration of what appears to
be uttflrly incomprehensible as II. piece of trickery, and yet-J fC5~)t
Dlgltlzedby""O e
ft
86 On &me PhyBicoJ, Phenomena. [March 6,
conceal from myself the fact that if the moral character of the medium
should be found open to suspicion the chances are that it was after
all only a piece of adroit legerdemain.
On January 5th, 1878, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood kindly arranged
that I should have a _nce in his own house in Queen Anne Street,
London, with Mr. Eglinton. The observers present beside myself
were Mr. Wedgwood and his sister, Mr. A. R. Wallace, and Mr. F.
W. H. Myers.
The seance was held in Mr. Wedgwood's library at the hour of
4: p.m. When the medium arrived I was permitted to take whatever
precautions I thought necessary to prevent fraud on his part.
Accordingly I asked him to take off his coat and waistcoat and put on
a black coat of Mr. Wedgwood's. The description of what follows is
tedious, but I fear it is necessary, though no verbal description can ever
be entirely satisfactory to one who was not present. Anticipating that
the medium might easily slip his arms out of the coat sleeves, but that
he would find it extremely difficult to get them out of his shirt sleeves,
I took a needle and thread and stitched each sleeve of the white shirt
he had on to the corresponding sleeve of the coat I had just put on
him. I then stitched the wristband of each shirt sleeve so as to make
it fit tightly around his wrists. He was then asked to sit down in a
chair in the corner of the room and place his hands behind him; in
this position thread was tied to each wrist and fastened to a nail driven
in the woodwork of the adjacent bookcase. To prevent accidental break-
ing of the thread, and as a further security, a piece of red tape waS passed
through the button hole of his shirt, then through a button hole of the
coat,then carried over his arms and the two ends tied very securely behind
him; the two long loose ends of the tape were finally fastened, one to
the nail in the bookcase on his right hand, and the other to the nail in
the bookcase on his left hand side. I now asked him to place his hands,
which, as I have said, were behind him, palm to palm; he did so, and I
then tied his thumbs together very securely with a piece of black linen
thread. It will thus be obvious he could, if he chose, move his legs
freely and also turn or nod his head, but he could not move the trunk
of his body nor his hands nor arms without breaking the fastenings,
which I may add were sealed with sealing wax on to the bookcase
as well as tied to the nails. A couple of small curtains, running on &,
rail over the medium's head, were now drawn nearly together in front
of the medium, leaving a space of a few inches eX&Ctly opposite the
central line of his body. Through this space his face and front of his
body could of course be seen. The curtains hung down on each side of
the chair on which the medium sat, so that his legs from the waist
downward were entirely in front of the curtain. A gas .let, which was
the principal light in the room (the heavy ~w;d4j;~~king been
1886.] On Some PkyBical Pkwnomerw.. 37
drawn) was now lowered, but there was plenty of light to allow of our
seeing each other. We then seated ourselves close to the medium; I
was so close to him that not a foot intervened between us. I could see
that his head presently drooped and he went into a sort of trance,
whether real or assumed I could not say. Knockings ,were now heard,
and upon repeating the alphabet over slowly, a message was spelt out.
I asked, "Can you move anything in the room 1" It said, by knocks, it
would try, but nothing was moved. Either one of us or else the
knocks suggested putting some objects near the medium. I got up,
went to the bookcase, and took out some three or four books at random.
These I placed in a pile on the lap of the medium, and then, catching
sight of a small hand bell, added this on the top of all.
Upon seating myself close in front of the medium, our knees almost
touching; I noticed there was enough light in the room to read the time
by my watch true to a second. In a few minutes after this, whilst
watching the motionless figure of the medium, I distinctly saw the
upper half of the pile of books move, the cover of the middle book
opening and causing the ones above it and the bell to incline to a con-
siderable angle, so that I was surprised to find that the bell did not fall
off; in fact, it did not stir relatively to the cover of the book. The leaves
of the book were now dropped one after another, and then opened up
again. Then the lower book opened, and its leaves were deliberately let
fall. The whole proceeding was exactly such as would occur if two
hands were placed on each side of the volumes and their leaves slowly
run over by first lifting up the body of the book and then allowing the
leaves to drop past, the fingers rubbing against them as they fell.
During this process some unseen support would be required to keep
the bell in its place.
Now, if the medium had skilfully depressed or raised his knees,
the books would have moved as a whole, and this is what did not occur.
If he had cunningly contrived, unseen by five pairs of eyes, to fasten a
thread to the cover of any of the books, he must have done so in full
view of us all after he had been secured in his cha.ir, and then the
upper cover, or the book as a whole, would have moved, and this also is
what did not occur.
When the curtains were drawn back the medium appeared to be
fast asleep; the gas was turned fully up, and every fastening was found
intact. As, however, I could see the body of the medium the whole
time, the fastenings were of no particular value in this case, except to
satisfy those who were not there. The medium presented the usual
dazed appearance when he awoke shortly afterwards.
What hypothesis can we frame to account for what took place1 If
hallucination be the explanation it was a case of collective hallucination.
for every one of the five observers present saw +.hAlIII.IIlelf.'h.i.n..cUd
~glfiiecr5y ~(51.,,",
86 On &nne PhyBical Phenomena. [March 6,
conceal from myself the fact that if the moral character of the medium
should be found open to suspicion the chances are that it was after
all only a piece of adroit legerdemain.
On January 5th, 1878, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood kindly arranged
that I should have a seance in his own house in Queen Anne Street,
London, with Mr. Eglinton. The observers present beside myself
were Mr. Wedgwood and his sister, Mr. A. R. Wallace, and Mr. F.
W. H. Myers.
The seance was held in Mr. Wedgwood's library at the hour of
4 p.m. When the medium arrived I was permitted to take whatever
precautions I thought necessary to prevent fraud on his part.
Accordingly I asked him to take off his coat and waistcoat and put on
a black coat of Mr. Wedgwood's. The description of what follows is
tedious, but I fear it is necessary, though no verbal description can ever
be entirely satisfactory to one who was not present. Anticipating that
the medium might easily slip his arms out of the coat sleeves, but that
he would find it extremely difficult to get them out of his shirt sleeves,
I took a needle and thread and stitched each sleeve of the white shirt
he had on to the corresponding sleeve of the coat I had just put on
him. I then stitched the wristband of each shirt sleeve so as to ma.ke
it fit tightly around his wrists. He was then asked to sit down in a
chair in the corner of the room and place his hands behind him; in
this position thread was tied to each wrist and fastened to a nail driven
in the woodwork of the adjacent bookcase. To prevent accidental break-
ing of the thread, and as a further security, a piece of red tape waS passed
through the button hole of his shirt, then through a button hole of the
coat,then carried over his arms and the two ends tied very securely behind
him ; ~h? two long loose ends of the tape were finally fastened, one to
the naIl m the bookcase on his right hand, and the other to the nail in
the. bookcase on his.left hand side. I now asked him to place his hands,
which,. as I.have saId, were behind him, palm to palm; he did so, and I
then tIed hIS ~humbs together very securely with a piece of black linen
thread. It Will thus be obvious he could if he chose move his legs
freely and also turn or nod his head but he could not'move the trunk
of ~s body nor his hands nor arms'without breaking the fastenings,
whIch I may add were sealed with sealing wax on to the book~
as well as tied to th 'Is . ,
. e nal. A couple of small curtalDS runmng tv'
rad over the medium's h a d ' .
f th edi . e, were now drawn nearly together r
oem um leavmg a f f . ..
t 1l i ' space 0 a ew Inches exactly opna
cboden ra lnde of his body. Through this space his face and j
y cou of COurse be s Th .
th h' een. e curtams hung down~n
e c aIr on which the medium sat, so that his Ie
~wn~ar~ we~e entirely in front of the curtain. A:.s
e prmclpal hght in the room (the heavv window cu
• ). r., J
- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I Y\ X •
u - """'~ rnen07nena..
ara~) was now lowered, but there was plenty of ligh
seeing each other. We then seated ourselves clo
-w-as so close to him that not a foot intervened between
that his head presently drooped and he went into &
-w-hether real or assumed I could not say. Knockin
and upon repeating the alphabet over slowly, a me61ga.J~
I asked, "Can you move anything in the room 1n It
'W"ould try, but nothing was moved. Either ou!
knocks suggested putting some objects near the XLI.""'~·LLII~
"Went to the bookcase, and took out some three or four Doc,k:.
These I placed in a pile on the lap of the mediuxn,
sight of a small hand bell, added this on the top of
Upon seating myself close in front of the medi
touching,' I noticed there was enough light in the -~....,.
by my wa.tch true to a second. In a few minu ,&~biler
wa.tching the motionless figure of the meruuxn,
upper half of the pile of books move, the co
opening and causing the ones above it and the
siderable angle, so that I was surprised to find
off; in fact, it did not stir relatively to the cove
of the book were now dropped one after anot
again. Then the lower book opened, and its lea.
fall. The whole proceeding was exactly such
hands were placed on each side of the voluxn
run over by first lifting up the body of the
leaves to drop past, the fingers rubbing
During this process some unseen support
the bell in its place.
ow, if the medium had skilfully de
the books would have moved as a whole,
Ii he had cunningly contrived, unseen
thread to the cover of the books,
view of us all after
upper the
38 On Some PhyBica/, Phenomena. [March 6,
described it in similar words afterwards. The occurrence was not
expected beforehand, not, therefore, talked over as likely to happen,
and accordingly no dominant idea had taken p0BBe88ion of our minds
that this particular phenomenon would occur. Moreover, I was
specially on my guard, for the mesmeric hypothesis was a favourite
one of mine, but in this case it is certainly out of court. If fraud
be the explanation, who was the operator 1 The good faith of the
observers, all friends of each other, is unquestionable; but if this were
not the case it was quite light enough to see that nobody's hands were
meddling with the books. The medium may have been the operator.
but I cannot myself conjecture how he accomplished the performance,
even allowing he may have distracted our attention at a critical
moment so as to make his preparations unperceived. The most
plausible explanation of the whole affair is mal-observation and
misdescription on my part, a clever bit of juggling in moving the books
being mistaken for a larger movement, and ultimately exaggerated into
the effect described. I have however quoted from my notes and am not
conscious of any exaggeration. But I think we are bound to admit that
if such an inexplicable physical phenomenon stood alone it is far more
probable that my observation was inaccurate or my description
exaggerated than that the occurrence actually took place as I have
described.!
The question remains how far is it legitimate to apply this exaggere.-
tion hypothesis to each case as it arises and so in detail dispose of an
imposing array of evidence. When the first observers of a slowly
moving electric fire-ball recounted what they had seen they were
naturally suspected of exaggeration, or as the victims of some illusion.
But as concordant testimony from other independent observers came in
disbelief had to be given up, and electric fire-balls are now accepted as
an enigmatic freak of that inexplicable agency, electricity.
Similarly, if we had adequate evidence, physical phenomena, such
1 I ought here to mention that I have had numerous sittings with "Dr.
Slade" and Mr. Eglinton, and other mediums, for the purpose of obtaining what
are called "Psychographic" phenomena, that is, writing by unseen agency on
slates or other material. Whilst I was very much impressed with the successful
results that I had with Slade in broad daylight and under conditions that seemed
to render fraud impoBllible (and until I am shown how the writing could be accom.
plished by legerdemain I find it stupendously difficult to accept that hypothesis).
nevertheless one notable fact must be set against Slade; namely, he
entirely failed to obtain any writing within a carefully scaled box, albeit I
left the box in his po8IIeBIIion for some time. .. Dr. Monck," another known
medium, equally failed with the same box, and subsequently I caught the
.. Dr." in a gross bit of fraud, a piece of white muslin on a wire frame with a
bla.ck .th~ a~~ed, being used by the medium to simJl!ate a ..partially
materialized Bpmt ! Digitized by ~0081e
1886.] On Some Physical P~. 39
as I have described, might, without intellectual confusion, be regarded
as unaccountable freaks of that mysterious agency we call mind. Of
whose mind is another question, or whether that mind belong to a living
human brain or to an invisible being. The real point at issue is simply
this, have we at the present day a sufficient accumulation of good
e~idence from trustworthy, independent observers, to outweigh the
antecedent improbability of the alleged facts ,
For my own part, and with much diffidence, I venture to think we
have now enough evidence, and have had enough any time this last
dozen years, to establish in an unbiassed mind a presumption in favour
of the existence of certain physical phenomena inexplicable by the
physical science of to-day. We have not anything like enough evidence
to convince the scientific world, or even to remove all doubt from an
impartial jury who demand scientific precision. It may be the
very nature of the phenomena will prevent our ever obtaining
the kind of evidence that physical science~ demands. Still more
remote is the probability of our being able in this region to
exercise that successful prevision which science justly regards as the
test of accurate knowledge, and of laws built thereon. Possibly the
pursuit of experimental psychology, which our Society is stimulating
throughout both Europe and America, will in time throw much light
upon the causes of phenomena such as I have ventured to bring before
the Society this evening.
But along with more evidence of the right kind I am convinced we
need a somewhat freer use of hypotheses. The popular theories and
easy-chair explanations of Spiritualistic phenomena are manifestly
inadequate. As a stimulus to investigation let us be bold in discussing
novel hypotheses whilst we are rigidly careful in experiment. "Never,"
remarks De Morgan, "has any way been made by observations alone.
Facts have sometimes started a theory; but until sagacity had con-
jectured, divined, guessed, surmised what these facts pointed to, the
facts were a mob, not an army." I am therefore of opinion that the
most hopeful advance in this subject will be made by daring hypotheses
based upon a study of the evidence afforded by private mediumship.
Of course, many erroneous explanations will be made at first; our
theories are almost sure to be wrong. Intellectual progress, like
walking, is a perpetual falling and recovery.
With much respect for the opinion of those who have arrived
at an opposite conclusion, and quite admitting that future evidence
may show that I am wrong and they are right, so far nothing that
I have myself seen has given me sufficient reason to believe that
an extramll.ndane intelligence operates in Spiritualistic phenomena.
So far as the evidence is trustworthy, I, for one, believe it p,oints
to the conclusion that, under conditions which are ~i_~~~(Ye
40 On Some PhyBica1, Phenomena. [March 6,
are not put to intellectual confusion by frequent interruptions of the
ordinary course of material laws, mind, occasionally and unconsciously,
can exert a direct influence upon lifeless matter. Upon the living
organised matter of the brain mind can and does act, i.e., if we admit
mind apart from matter. Obviously pure materialism must reject all
Spiritualistic evidence, and hence the great theoretic interest which
attaches itself to this branch of psychical research. The hypothesis I
have suggested will be considered less presumptuous by those who have
followed the weighty evidence we have obtained in favour of the direct
action of mind upon mind in thought-transference.
It is however a recognised and wholesome axiom of science that before
unknown causes are assumed to exist all known causes should have
been exhausted, and not until they are shown to afford an inadequate
explanation are we at liberty to take a new departure. This axiom we
have carefully borne in mind in our experiments in thought-
transference; let us be equally cautious and equally free from timidity
here. Mrs. Sidgwick, in the paper that is to follow this, will, I believe,
conclusively show how hopelessly inattentive our observation usually is ;
with the firmest resolution we mentally relax our attention from time
to time. Students of optics know that whilst we think we clearly see
the whole figure of a man or a group of things, with one simultaneous
act of vision, the opposite is the case ; we can only see clearly one point
at a time, and unconsciously our eyes sweep from point to point over the
objects before us. Thus the muscles of the eyes require intervals of
rest, which intervals come and go unbidden and unknown, and at these
moments we are oblivious of all but a speck in the scene before us.
Furthermore, to gain the needful rest or relief from monotony, our
eyes outwit our will, and surreptitiously wander at the slightest dis-
traction.
Mrs. Sidgwick's acute observations will probably explain by known
causes much that now passes as good evidence in favour of Spiritualism,
just as unconscious muscular action and extreme tactile sensibility ex-
plain much that passes as thought-reading. It seems to me however almost
as irrational to explain away the whole phenomena of Spiritualism by
fraud and mal-observation as is the attempt of some of our hasty critics
to attribute to collusion and "muscle-reading" the experiments upon
which we base our belief in thought-transference. Such critics forget
that every honest investigator is sure to strain known causes to their
utmost limit before he is driven to adopt an explanation that runs
counter to the generalised experience of mankind. No doubt astute-
ness beyond the ordinary lot of mankind is the inalienable birthright of
all critics, but they might spare us a little oommon-sense.
But hypotheses of the conditions of success in experimenting are
even more useful at present than hypothes~, of the cause of the
1886.] On 80m6 Physical Phenomena. 41
phenomena. I do not know that we have any right hastily to reject
the working hypothesis of Spiritualists who say that sympathy, or at
any rate the absence of mental antagonism, is a condition of success. I
may be wrong, but'I think sympathy is compatible with a calm
judgment and clear and accurate observation; and it may be that in
the psychological world it is as necessary as certain material conditions
in the physical world. Imagine for a moment the problem reversed,
that we were living in a spiritual world where the properties of
ordinary matter were unknown, where thought was supreme, thought-
transference the mode of communication, and where our affections
without bodily effort determined our actions and our position in
space. Imagine now a stranger from the material world coming to
tell us, say, of the discovery of the electric telegraph. He explains all
the phenomena, brings the instrumental appliances, and shows that by
this means he can talk to a friend who is invisible. He now lea.ves ua
to repeat the experiment for ourselves. We bend our minds to this new
and, as it appears to us, rather useless and ridiculous experiment; for it
appears absurd that the thought of an absent person should require to
come to us through the ticking of a needle, or the jumping up and down
of a bit of iron, when we, by mere volition, can at once sympathetically
communicate with any person, however distant. Overcoming our
contempt we try, arrange the apparatus, and, as is our habit in the
spiritual world, summon up our volition, but no answer comes; we
exercise our utmost belief in and sympathy for our unknown friend at
the other end of the line, but the experiment is a fa.ilure--no response
arrives. Whereon the stranger from the materia.! world comes to our
aid and says, "Your states of mind have nothing to do with any
material phenomenon, you have omitted an important experimental con-
dition, for you have forgotten to close the circuit." But when we
discuss this question with our neighbours we all come to the conclusion
that the electric telegraph is silly and useless even if true; and it can't
be true because, we argue, mental forces operate at enormous distances
and therefore the interval of a hundredth of a.n inch or less that was
required to close the circuit can make no appreciable difference in the
transmission of thought. So we disbelieve in the electric telegraph,
and look upon the stranger as a kna.ve or a fool, probably both.
I think this is not an unfair nor uninstructive analogy. It is
because all working theories on these debateable Spiritualistic
phenomena are so unrelated to our existing knowledge of the physical
world, that the psychological problems before us receive such scant
recognition at the hands of scientific men. But let us take courage;
the author of the Veatigea of Creation, referring to the ridicule with
which his views were received, remarked :-" A novelty, however true,
if there be no received truths with which it can hei9illh~~~t::
42 On Some Physical Pherwrnena. [March 6,
monious relation, has little chance of II. favourable hearing." And yet
within a single generation from the time these words were written,
thanks to the labours of Mr. Darwin and Mr. Wallace, the theory of
Evolution has become a recognised part of biologica.l science. In
science, as in politics, the happier tendency of modem thought is
"neither to mock, to bewail, nor to denounce men's actions, but to try
to understand them."
In conclusion, I have, therefore, good hope that whilst Spiritualistic
phenomena will be of little use to physica.l science, and I fear can never
be demonstrated by purely physica.l methods of investigation, they may
yet, in time to come, be accepted as an integral part of the dual world
of matter and mind in the midst of which we live. And if so, the gain
to human thought will be immense; the present despairing, materialistic
attitude of mind will give place to a more hopeful and withal a more
humble attitude towards the infinite possibilities that are within our
reach. And, if a personal allusion may be forgiven, I find, as I re-
gard these phenomena, more and more help in understanding the laws
of a spiritual kingdom, the mysteries of which Spiritualism cannot
unfold, but the mental conditions of our approach to which it seems to
shadow forth.
NOTE ON THE ABOVE PAPER.
By PROFB880R BALFOUR STEWART, F.R.S.
I have read with much interest the paper by Professor Barrett, on
some Physical Phenomena commonly called Spiritualistic witnessed by
him. He expresses his conclusions in the following words:
cc Assuming the evidence to be trustworthy, I, for one, believe it
points to the conclusion that, under conditions which are so restricted
that we are not put to intellectual confusion by frequent interruptions
of the ordinary course of material laws, mind occasioncdl'll and tmCOft-
8cioual'll can exert a direct influence upon lijek88 matter.II
As this is a subject to which I have given a. good deal of thought, I
trust the Psychica.l Society will allow me to make one or two remarks
upon it, and I am very sure my friend, Professor Barrett, will not
object to this course.
Viewing the "Conservation of Energy" as the representative of
physica.llaws, I nevertheless do not regard it in its birth, at least, as
a.nything else than a scientific assertion-a. very sagacious one, no doubt,
but yet an assertion. We are in profound i~~Pe(m~b~ll of the
1886.] On &nne PhyBicoJ, Phenomena. 43
intimate constitution of matter, but of the nature of those forces which
animate the atom and the molecule. Under these circumstances, chiefly to
advance physical knowledge bymeans of a working hypothesis,but partly,
it may be, as a weapon against visionaries, we have formulated an asser-
tion known as the" Conservation of Energy." It is unquestionable that
this tKH;a/kd law has greatly extended our knowledge of physics; nor
have we met with any strictly physical experiment capable of repetition
under fixed conditions that is inconsistent with this law. Now,
what should be our course of action when a visionary comes before us
with some variety of " Perpetual Motion'" The moral certainty that
we are invaded by presumptuous ignorance is, no doubt, a sufficiently
good excuse for not discussing the project. But we have a less objec-
tionable method of dealing with such a man by asking him to put his
project in execution, and to produce his machine, which we will then
carefully examine. The fact that no such machine has been produced,
and, as I said before, that no physical experiment contradicts the great
laws of Energy, goes surely very far to justify us in regarding these
laws as true-as laws which hold in what I may call the physical
market of the world, ruling the physical transactions between man
and man.
But there are many who are not content with such a limited appli-
cation of physical laws. In the first place, they repudiate the doctrine of
~will because they regard it as being inconsistent with such laws;
tI6CMIdl,l, they repudiate the possibility of what are called miracles; and,
lanl,l, they repudiate (with contempt) the evidence for telepathy and
more especially that for Spiritualistic phenomena which has come before
the Society for Psychical Research.
One consequence of this mental posture is that interminable discus-
sions have arisen between a certain cla.ss of men of science and the
supporters of Christianity,the latter of whom have been far from judicious
in their method of defence. These have until recently considered miracles
as Divine interferences with ordinary laws, and hence as abnormal and
intellectually incomprehensible occurrences, while the Protestant
theologians have imagined that the power to work miracles ceased with
the Apostles. This latter doctrine was probably a.ssumed as a polemical
weapon at the time of the great controversy with the Church of Rome.
It goes without saying that this method of looking at things will not
recommend itself to men of science, and thus an embittered and useless
discussion has continued between two classes of men, neither of whom
has seemed to be either able or willing to enter into the position a.ssumed
by the other.
Of late years, however, miracles have come to be regarded not
as breaks of law, but as phenomena embracing .a hig9&-_law~
doctrine which is a great advance upon its pred~.~~\'be
44 On Some Physical Phenom.erw,. [March 6,
question naturally a.rises, if there be this higher law may there not be
OCC&Sional tr&ees of it to be met with in the world, even at this present
age1 It is, I think, exceedingly unfortunate that a large class of
theologians have attempted to decide this question in the negative. It
is not a question for them to decide, but for those who investigate
matters of fact. This is in reality the question upon which the Psychical
Society are engaged, and the circumstances which I have mentioned
appear to me to lend an unusual importance to their investigations. Let
us begin by allowing that the laws of Energy dominate the scientific
market-place, and the scientific dealings between man and man. We are,
I conceive, amply justified in extending this scientific aaaertion so far.
But are we justified in extending it further 1 Are we, for instance,
justified in aaaerting that under the very dUferent conditions of things
contemplated by the Psychical Society there may not be at least an
apparent and primafacie breakdown of these laws; and more especially.
are we justified in absolutely shutting our eyes to all evidence that may
be brought before us in favour of such appa.rentinterruptions 1 I cannot
think so. We must examine everything. Because a scientific statement
applies to one set of conditions, must it necessarily apply to everything
else 1 I have always thought that this had to be ascertained by investi-
gation, and not by dogmatic aaaertion, and I therefore conceive that our
Society is abundantly justified in applying the .Baconian method of
research to all occurrences.
Digitized by Coogle
