{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sherrye_ks_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sherrye KS Probable NDE 7246","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sherrye KS Probable NDE 7246  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sherrye KS Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3689 Sherrye KS Probable NDE 7246  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was up high looking down on a hospital scene. I saw a lot of people in scrubs standing around a table or bed. I did not understand at first that I (my body) was on that bed, and my spirit had left. I saw my husband and knew he was very distressed. I called out to him, over and over, but he did not respond. 

I then found myself standing on the bank of a body of water that was like a river, but it was not flowing. It was black and looked bottomless and cold. As I stood there trying to figure out where I was and what I needed to do, I saw that a storm was brewing to the east. I knew I was facing north. The wind began blowing, and I could see distant lightning. I looked around for shelter. I looked across the river and only saw darkness. I looked to my left and saw a building a few hundred yards away. Then I saw my friend, Mary. Mary said, 'Come with me. We are having a worship service there.' I was then in that building. I don't know how I got there. I participated as best as I could in a play that was being performed about Jesus' birth, but I was uncomfortable. I didn't really want to be there. 

I was back on the bank of the black river. Again, I looked across, and this time I saw Paradise. The bank of the other shore was made of crystalline sand that sparkled like diamonds in the beautiful, bright light that shone there. Beyond the beach grew beautiful, lush foliage, all kinds of beautiful plants. My eyes were drawn back down the beach where I saw, to my amazement, my friend, Penny. She was dressed in beautiful flowing garments. She smiled and beckoned for me. I saw movement in the foliage and saw the head of an albino tiger emerge from the shrubs. I looked to Penny thinking I should warn her, but she looked toward the magnificent creature, smiled and extended her hand. The tiger went to her and stood calmly by her side. I thought to myself, 'That's where I want to go. I want to go to Paradise.' 

I was not allowed to cross the river then. My soul was taken on a journey. There was much I had to see and learn first. I was shown a war going on in the desert. Maybe it was Desert Storm, but probably it was just the constant war that goes on. I saw scenes of man's inhumanity toward man. I saw some of the horrible things people do to one another. I was taken to the time of Jesus' crucifixion. I felt the hatred and hopelessness of the people there. After that, I was taken to a place of rest where I was cared for and nurtured by a wonderful female spirit. It seemed like I was there for a million years, because that is how long it took my soul to heal from the horrors I had seen. 

After that, I saw things that I didn't understand until I experienced them later in my life. I was in a train going to nowhere, an elevator, a huge tank filled with water in the basement of a room with thick wires coming down from the ceiling. I was told that my youngest son and his wife wouldn't be able to have children but was assured that 'the children of the world' would be theirs. In 2006, they adopted two of those children of the world. I was shown that one of my grandchildren would experience some kind of situation that would cause my son great fear and pain. Nothing has happened yet; so, I still don't know what that will be. 

Finally, I was taken to a place by a woman I didn't know. She told me we were going to a place where the most evil of evil people were held. The people there were dressed in white jumpsuits. Every once and a while a door would open and one of them would be sent out. The woman told me that those people who got out were allowed to leave, because they didn't love Jesus and that was the only way I could get away from there. 

She asked me 3 times if I hated Him. Three times, I told her no, that I love Him. It was only then that I made it to Paradise. When I got there, I was taken through huge gates into a city. The city was translucent and bright. There were people everywhere. They were celebrating, joyous that I had arrived. I joined them in celebration for a while. I knew I was in the presence of the Holy Spirit. I cannot adequately describe the peace and love I felt. It was a place I never wanted to leave. 

I was approached by another woman, again someone I didn't know. She asked, 'Are you ready to meet the King?' I said, 'Yes, I am.' She said, 'Come with me.' She took me into a beautiful room. There was no one else around. The room was filled with love and peace. She said to me, 'Wait here. I'll see if He is ready for you.' I was there for what seemed like an eternity. I felt so good, so at rest. I thought to myself, 'This is so comfortable. I hope I don't fall asleep.' That was it. I had to come back. He was not ready for me. This existence I returned to felt dirty and evil. I did not want to be back here, and I can't wait to leave again to be free of this body/shell that fastens my soul in this realm. Wonderful things await!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was involved in a motor vehicle accident in which I sustained a broken back and severe chest injury. I had double pneumonia at the time of the accident; so, my respiratory function was already compromised. I developed Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome and was in a coma and on life support for 3 weeks.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The war and the horrific things people do to each other, every day all over the world. I was made aware of the damage we are inflicting on our planet.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This happened when I was taken on what I refer to as my 'soul journey' before I reached the highest realm where I was in the presence of and in commune with the Holy Spirit. I perceived time and space in an entirely different way. I saw that all time existed all the time, and travel from the past to the future was easily accomplished. I saw things that had yet to occur in my life and saw things in store for some of my living family members, some of which have happened since my experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     All time was there for me to see. It seemed like my journey lasted a million years.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was so vivid, so much brighter and clearer than normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything. I just knew things.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was met on the dark shore and the shore of Paradise by friends who were not deceased.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     After my soul journey, I crossed the still, black water onto the shore of Paradise. Its beauty was too great to adequately describe. I saw a bright blue sky, crystalline sand, lush, green foliage, a beautiful albino tiger, my friend in flowing garments.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a sense of connectedness with all creation. I felt indescribable acceptance, love and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw both personal and world scenes. I saw some very mundane things that I didn't understand until I personally experienced them later. I saw the desert wars, man's inhumanity to man. I saw how we are destroying the Earth and how technology would separate us from one another. I went to my son's office, which I had never actually seen, I think to tell him goodbye. I was shown that my youngest son and his wife wouldn't be able to have children but was told the children of the world were theirs. In 2006, they adopted two of those children of the world. I saw the possibility of something bad in the future of one of my grandchildren, something that I still can't name but something that may cause my son grief and pain.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was raised in the Methodist church but, after marrying and leaving home, was not an regular participant in worship services.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I practice my faith more and attend worship services regularly. I didn't take time for that before. I share my faith with others every chance I get. I never did that before. I have a much more active prayer life. I see prayers answered daily and miracles occurring frequently. I never took time to notice God's work before. I am much more respectful and feel much more responsible for all of God's creation, all of nature.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I love worship and rarely miss a service.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had been taught about judgement and paying for my sins. While I was allowed to see the effect of sin, I was not judged. I was loved.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     We should not judge others but show love and compassion for all of God's creation.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw a host of spiritual beings.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     The knowledge all time exists at all time and the passage from the past to the future can occur, at least in the spiritual realm. The understanding that the spirit never ceases to exist.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Everything is connected. We are all one.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was asked if I wanted to meet the King. I said I did. I was taken to a place and told to wait while they checked to see if the King was ready for me. Apparently He wasn't because I came back into my physical body on this earth.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I'm not sure what this question is asking. I can't think of anything in addition to what I have already answered.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Our job is to care for each other as well as to respect and protect all of God's creation. Material things are meaningless - our focus should be on love. We should try to coexist in peace and nurture each other.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes. I am certain that what we call death is just a passage into a new realm of existence.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Our challenges are brought on, not only by our own action,s but by the  actions/choices of all. Hardships and challenges are designed to help us grow in spirit - this includes our collective spirit.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I experienced what unconditional love feels like - what it is like to be completely known and accepted.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I feel the need to connect with the Holy Spirit. That takes precedence over other things. I am not connected to material things and do not put my work above my relationships like I tended to do before.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I am unable to adequately express the experience. There are not enough words in my language.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   When I came back to this realm my NDE is all I remembered.  It was all I cared about.I wanted to go back, to travel through space and time, to feel the love and peace again. It took months to regain some memory of actual events surrounding my accident. Most things I have not ever been able to recall - but I will NEVER forget my NDE.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have precognition about things. I sometimes know who is calling before I answer the phone. I know when certain scheduled events are going to be cancelled, etc.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    1 year. I told my neurosurgeon that I wanted to talk about 'my head' not my back injury. He said, 'I know what you are going to say; so, before you start, let me rule out some things. What you experienced was not a result of medications. In fact, due to the medications you were on, you should have awakened with nothing in your head. It was not the result of a psychotic episode or hallucination. If that had been the case, I would have called in a psychiatrist. Read your records if you want to see that I did not do that. It was not the result of a head injury. Although you had loss of oxygen to the brain, you are functioning well enough now to rule that out.' He then said, 'You've heard of NDEs right? Well, just write your book. I just ask to be invited to your book signing.' A few months after that, I decided to tell my oldest son. He turned and walked away from me. It was months before he allowed me to talk about it to him. To this day, I have never told him my whole story. My husband and youngest son lived through my accident and recovery. They were much more accepting of my story, but I still haven't told them all of it. It is hard to tell.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of them, of course, but had not read or researched the subject.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt like my only reality.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The memory is the clearest recollection of any experience I have ever had.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sherrye_ks_probable_nde.html