{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shirley_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Shirley J NDE 2123","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shirley J NDE 2123  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shirley J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						562  Shirley J NDE  2123  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  Hello. My name is Shirley. My husband is an airline pilot and we were both on our way to a new job located in Arizona. We drove my car from California to Arizona. On the trip over there, I had been given valium and other narcotics due to constant pain and nine back surgeries. I had been injured from a previous diagnostic procedure that left me with a permanent spine injury. So, I took the valium and finally I had lost my memory as to when the last time I had taken my last dose. We arrived in Arizona and found a motel room.

The next day my husband went to work but he had tried earlier to wake me and he could not. Since he was to be the chief pilot at the local airport and worked with flight officers for medical purposes, they arrived and flew me to the hospital. On the flight, I woke up with a wonderful feeling of peace. I saw a dark tunnel with a light. And then I heard my deceased identical twin sister who died at one year old say to me, 'It's okay Shirley, but you must fight! Fight Shirley, fight.' I don't remember anything more, but I am sure you must know that identical twins are always 'connected'. I have heard her voice many times before and she did appear to me one night, but I became frightened and ran from the room. My children said to me, 'What's the matter mom, you look like you have just seen a ghost!!!'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 AUG, 21, 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   At the time of my death, I was being air lifted to a hospital several towns away.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was like I had nothing to fear. It told me just to relax, and I was relaxed. Like I said before, I was near death yet I saw my twin and heard her voice. That does not happen a lot. It was a life and death situation and although I was not even breathing on my own, how could I have functioned so well mentally?  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       On the flight to the hospital. I heard someone say, 'We're losing her.'  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I did not know what space I was in other than the fact that my space had been altered dramatically. This was in the airplane as I was being airlifted to a hospital.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The depth of perception was the most vivid memory I had. The tunnel was so long and the light was so small but very bright.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear an audio version of my twin as if she were around thirty years old.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Heard my deceased sister.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a long tunnel with a small bright light at the end.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I didn't know what was happening to me. I had lost consciousness at that time. But, I had such a feeling of utter peace and tranquility like nothing I have ever felt in my life. I am no longer afraid of my new life that comes after this one ends.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Because now I know. There have been many different experiences regarding death in my life. I was a professional nurse at the time and I worked in life support at some of the world's largest hospitals. I saw many people die and I have spoken to them minutes before they pass and they all confirm one thing, at the time of your death they will tell you that they are about to die. I had one patient who told me there was a man in the window waving to her to come and go with him. She kept asking me, 'Who's that man at my window?' moments later he died. She was a Cherokee Indian and the man she had described had a black suit on and a black top hat. She died within moments.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can read most minds. It is scary, so I don't tell many people about it. I did one time and I scared this lady out of her mind. She ended up telling me, 'You should be on TV.'  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This was when I heard my identical twin sister's voice. You see, I have heard her voice my entire life. Now, I listen to her whispers.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I waited about a few days. They were not too surprised; they all told me that I was always very perceptive.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It just happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shirley_j_nde.html