{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shirley_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Shirley R Probable NDE 4194","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shirley R Probable NDE 4194  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shirley R Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2010 Shirley R Probable NDE 4194  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a silhouette of dark grey with light grey surrounding the whole area, except for the bright light that seemed to be heading up. The light being was not of earth light.  There was no need for the moon or stars. The best way I can describe the light is it was like the look of a full moon brightness. Other silhouettes were moving through the tunnel of light at an upward angle. Each silhouette was alone.  I couldn't tell the gender of man or woman or child.  There were no animals. There was no color in what I saw. The feeling of happiness and complete understanding of everything of earth was known in a flash. I was home, really home.  Nothing of earth was present.  The only thing there was me and information entering my mind.  ESP is the best way to describe it. A great feeling of I made it home at last, I knew what home sweet home meant. There is no time or months and life is short and death is forever, endless.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Surgery-related  'Bi-Lateral kidney stones, three stones the size of quarters in both kidneys with a membrane covering them. Renal infection with jaundice, experience was in wake up time, failed surgery.'  Other Bi-Lateral Major Kidney Surgery  Failure to remove stones during a fourteen hour surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time, months or years. There is no need after death for time as we know on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No need to think at the light, no questions needed to be ask, the whole universe was introduced and every word was truth, I at that moment knew about everything a human could know and things that humans on earth will never know.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No need for words, ESP seemed to replace any voice, there was no sound of any kind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw silhouettes of people that I did not know or need to know, I just knew they were going all the way home and into the light, floating and still moving slow very slow without movement of legs, not like moving on earth.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The Light leading up with silhouettes moving up through the tunnel of light is what I saw.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The whole scene was beautiful and without colors.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Holiness, I am not sure if the word emotions is correct. There really are no words to explain how I felt at the moment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes, I have been sent back to earth to do a second term. I am always looking for the reason I was sent back to earth. I can now do Ancient Art form of Reverse Painting on Glass, Poetry. Sometimes a stranger can touch me and I get a flash of an illness that the person is not aware of. Sometimes I can take their pain into myself and sometimes I can heal a person, there are many things that I can do and I never have heard of them, or done it before, it is endless on this gift list.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Always correct without question, things are going to happen just like they are going to happen, nothing can change it. Kind of like a secret that you keep forever, no need to tell anyone and no reason for fear.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I felt as if I had been there before. There are no boundaries!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Several religious backgrounds at the time of experience, none in particular'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All of the above are given and every person that goes to the light will feel the same, equal in every way. A feeling of not telling anyone about the sense of knowing special knowledge, universal order and/or purpose. I seem to always be searching for something, like I have a job to do or find, not knowing what it is keeps you searching.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I find people and animals now approach me for no reason, like something draws them into my path, I am always in wonder but always know why even when there is no explanation for it. Relationships are almost impossible.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Lack of Earthly words to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     ESP sometimes occurs when touched by a person or after seeing something that is not there. Sometimes people's silhouettes pass by. Feeling another's pain or illness that is going to happen to them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the whole experience left me angry and sad, I do not want to be here, I wanted to stay home. Why was I sent back when I am so depressed and full of pain here on earth? I wanted to stay home and go through the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was months after the NDE that I started to relive the experience. They expressed anger and non-belief. Trying to talk me out of the experience, made up silly reasons for what I felt and saw. Only those who have had a NDE want information on this subject that is without a doubt true and real.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     A Near Death Experience is without a doubt for real and not to be questioned, you cannot question it, you know it is the truth, the words of denial are not in the picture and you would die telling the truth if need be.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I lived it and feel it still to this day. The things I now know have been practiced over and over every day since, every hour, every time I paint or write poetry is a map of what I have returned for, the bigger reason has not been found by me, but I will keep looking without choice, driven. I knew how to type and use a computer when I have never used one or even touched one. There are so many things that I could fill page after page of things that I know and do not know why I know them, and they are always correct.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life is short and death is forever. Anyone who has had a near death experience could write volumes of things, endless just endless.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I will have to think about this one, there are so many questions that could be answered but then that would be called books or should I say endless volumes of books on every subject on the planet. This questionnaire is a good start.          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shirley_r_probable_nde.html