{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sheri_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Sheri G NDE 3388\/378","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sheri G NDE 3388/378  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sheri G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1330 Sheri G NDE 3388  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 3388  					</p>  					I had been out with a girlfriend and had come home. I snuggled up to my husband and he said, 'Do you feel this?' It was the knife pressed to my throat. He raped me at knifepoint, tried to get me to take a bunch of pills. All the while saying things like, 'Now you'll call the police' or 'I'm going to kill you.' I had asked for a divorce a couple weeks before that and he'd asked me to wait till after Xmas because of the kids. We had three, two of which were his from a previous marriage. Anyway, I had started calming down, getting pissed, and I scooted to the end of the bed to get up and the first stab got me in the back. We fought over the knife and he finally plunged it into my chest. He then hugged me and I said 'You've killed me.' He left the room and went upstairs where I could hear the girls screaming.

I kept thinking I have to keep my hands closed because both of my thumbs were just hanging having been cut to the bone while fighting over the knife. So I laid down and covered up with a quilt. I was getting cold and having a hard time breathing because, I found out later, the first stabbing had punctured my lung. When the ambulance attendants came downstairs, they checked me over and I wouldn't let them take me till they put on me a clean pair of underwear. I guess my mother's warning stuck in my head. When we got into the ambulance, I started getting SO COLD! I still to this day can't take the cold. I found out later I went into shock.

The next thing I knew I was in the emergency room floating above watching the doctors shock me back into my body. They took me into surgery.  The next thing I remember is someone pushing on my stomach and the pain was excruciating. Someone said, 'Rebound,' and we were headed back into surgery. I was in a coma for eight days, so I'm not sure exactly 'when' but at some point I found myself traveling a dark tunnel with a bright light beckoning. The closer I got to the light the more love I felt. The light got bigger and bigger and I could see all kinds of loved ones who had passed on. My grandma Jessie had her arms wide open to hug me and the closer I got the more overwhelming love I felt. I heard beautiful music and saw angels all lined up across the sky behind my relatives. I was so happy!! I felt SO MUCH love through every pore in my body. All of a sudden, I heard my mother saying 'Think of Tina,' (my daughter) 'Think of Tina,' and the light started getting farther away. I came to.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 7, 1979'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was stabbed several times, raped, tortured both physically and emotionally by my husband who in seven years of marriage, had not raised a hand to me in anger.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before I started hearing my mother's voice. The colors were so intense, the music was so pure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I sensed that I was seeing a lot in a small glimpse.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see very far in the distance and everyone was so filled with love that they were almost glowing. The colors were extremely vivid.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear them talking among themselves saying things like how glad they were to see me. The music got louder the closer I got to the light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was definitely kind of like a tunnel I couldn't see on the other side of it.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a lot of relatives and friends who had passed on. They didn't talk directly to me but I could hear them talking amongst themselves.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   And it kept getting closer and wider.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Overwhelming love!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Methodist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have become a better person because of it because I want to make sure that when my time does come, I end up back up there.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I can't describe the overwhelming feeling of love pouring through all my cells!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     If I dream about someone for three nights in a row, that person had usually had something bad happen to them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The love, I have not been afraid to die since then.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Six months maybe before I spoke to a psychic.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew in my heart that it was real and that I was extremely lucky to have felt that incredible amount of love.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know in my bones.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       


  Experience Description 378  					</p>  					

I had been stabbed several times, had an out-of-body in the emergency room and then died sometime while in an eight day coma.

  					  Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Nov 7, 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had been stabbed several times, had an out-of-body in the emergency room and then died sometime while in an eight day coma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I hovered over the doctors while they were working on my body in the emergency room.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Kept getting lighter and brighter.  It wasn't very long.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Oh yes, my grandmother Derusha was standing there with her arms wide open welcoming me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Not so much a light, as getting brighter and brighter.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven, no doubt in my mind, the colors and feeling were BEAUTIFUL.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE, extreme, overpowering happiness; like I had been infused and surrounded by the love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew I was surrounded with love and loving people.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew and know I will one day return there.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I finally could hear my mother in the background telling me to think of my daughter, and had to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Methodist

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe I am going to heaven and my grandmother will be my greeter.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of overflowing love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sheri_g_nde.html