{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sherri_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Sherri B NDE 3347","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sherri B NDE 3347  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sherri B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1303 Sherri B NDE 3347  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a 1974 Mercury Capri on my way home. It was the night time changed. (This will factor in later.) The traffic signal was flashing yellow on the road I was traveling.  It was flashing red on the crossroad. I was traveling between forty-five and fifty mph and had just entered the intersection. When I looked to my right it was clear, as I started to turn to look left, headlights greeted my eyes. My only thought was to speed up and get out of its way. If I applied my brake, I would have been hit directly in the driver's side door. I remember everything going in slow motion. Everything seemed unreal. The actual impact felt cushioned, the sound was muted, and things looked blurry except the street lights ahead of me seemed to move very fast from left to right. Like I was shaking my head 'NO' very fast. But the streaks of light were defined. (Like the light, the doctor uses to check your pupils.) That was the last thing I actually felt or was aware of until I came to in the middle of the road.

As I lay there, the first thing I was that I was in a white fog and what looked like my dad motioning with his arm and telling me to, 'Go back, go back it is...' I looked down over to the right (in the way he was motioning me) then no I came to in the middle of road. People were commenting, 'Oh, she's dead. Yeah she's dead.' I believe it was my dad because he had long hair, a long beard, and what I believe was the brown suit he was buried in. He was always away from me and my vision was not clear, not really blurry just not clear. I got up and said, 'No I'm not.' I was walking around like I was in a dream and saying repeatedly, 'No this is not happening to me.' I gave someone I had briefly went to school with and asked her to call my mother at home and to start the conversation that Sherri's okay. 

The ambulance came and the paramedic told me I'd be okay I was just in shock.

The man who hit me stole his friend's four-wheel drive truck, was drinking and doing drugs at a strip bar. He got pissed off, stole his friend four-wheel drive truck, went through a barrier across town, hit me, ran over a stop sign, the truck stopped going the wrong way and almost hit a 280-Z. He ran off on foot an hour later and a block up he raped a girl, and they finally caught him trying to steal a car at a dealership. When we went to court, I got to ask the witnesses, (which were his friend and his friend's girlfriend following him in her car) how I got out of the car? Through the windshield. I flew out as the roof was coming down on the head rest. (I was hit right behind the driver's door making my Capri a convertible, my seat was up to the steering wheel, the roof was down on the head rest.) If I had been wearing my seat belt I would have been smashed. And how fast was he going when he hit me? They were keeping up with him at ninety mph. Anyway, he got off because of the times didn't match (remember the hour time change?). And that I did not have a broken bone or was not half dead. Whiplash, pulled muscles (ultrasound for a couple of weeks). Oh yeah I couldn't walk for three days I had two small puncture wounds in my hip from what I believe was a ink pen in my sweater's pocket. My front tooth got broke and they went through my skin above my chin twelve stitches. Worse pain I have ever felt.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Oct. 26, 1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Traffic accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I came to.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came to.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was not clear but not blurry.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Seemed to be muted.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Always away from me, yes, my dad, 'Go back, Go back, it is...'

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   White fog.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt absolutely NOTHING. No regret, guilt, sadness, happiness etc. nothing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        What I was told.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right after, a couple of days. No big deal, not influenced by my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just know it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know it happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I recently fell off my bike face first. After I came to a stop I saw bright flashes of light and I knew I had to get up.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think the question about the content of the experience, wonderful, frightening, or mixed, is too general. You should have a box to explain. I marked mixed, but my experience was none of the above.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sherri_b_nde.html