{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sherry_h_adc.html","mytitle":"Sherry H SMR\/ADC 98","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sherry H SMR/ADC 98  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Sherry H SMR/ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification SMR/ADC  						30206  Sherry H SMR/ADC  98  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description 2/6/2017  					</p>

  					   					   					  I have had many out of body experiences throughout my lifetime. Each one has been completely unique. The first one that I remember consciously was at nine years of age, during a surgery. I believe that one was a near death experience. 

  The out of body experience I would like to share with you today happened approximately four months after my son passed away due to brain cancer. He was 19 when he was diagnosed and he lived for 15 months before passing. My Son was the most beautiful human being I have ever known and his illness, surgeries, treatment and passing shook me to the core. He had always been such a gift to me and I love him with a depth of love that I can not describe in words. 

  At the time of this out of body experience, I was not sure if I could continue on in my life with the amount of grief and sadness I felt. It was in the early morning hours that the OBE happened. I was relaxed but still laying in bed. My husband was out of the house very early for a morning shift. I believe it was probably about 4:30 or 5:00 AM. 

  I felt the familiar feelings that I experience when an OBE is about to happen. There is a rushing sound and I feel as though my being is moving under my skin. All of a sudden I was out of my body and in a place that was beautiful. I didn't feel any traveling to get to this place, I was just suddenly there. 

  I would describe my surroundings as lush, green and manicured.. as though a gardener took great care to make this place beautiful... but not in an orderly flowerbed type of way. The tree's were large and full with many colours of greens and some with wine coloured leaves. There was a brick paved driveway that had a small rise. I didn't see any buildings or structures at this time. 

  At the top of the rise, on the brick driveway, stood three male figures. I knew immediately that the middle figure was my son David. He looked up and instantaneously, I was in his arms and he had picked me up and was twirling me around and saying, 'I love you, I love you, I love you!' The words are beautiful but they were not just words, or maybe not words at all. I could feel his message all through me and I was sending the same I love you's back to him. It was the most love I have ever felt and it was everything. 

  I don't know who the other young men were. They seemed to fade out of view and it was just David and I. I know that we had some sort of conversation and I know that he took me to meet others, but I do not have any of those details now. I am aware that for some reason, I could not bring that information back with me.   Suddenly I was back within the confines of my body. This experience gave me the strength that I needed so badly at that time. I was able to carry on further.   Approximately two or three months later, I had another out of body experience that happened in the early morning hours while I was awake and conscious. Again, I was transported instantly to a place. This landscape couldn't be more different than the first meeting with David. It was arid and dry with small sage brush types of growth. There was a narrow, small body of water below a small hill. There are large mountains where I live but I have been to other locations where what I would call rolling hills, are called mountains. These were dry, rolling hills. 

  On top of one of the hills, there was a fairly large group of young people. I was across the other side of the water from the hill. The place where I was standing, had simple looking cement paving and some type of railing with a building behind me. I absolutely knew that my son was on the other side of this water. All of the people there were in the same age group as David. They were playing a tournament type of game.. partnered up and trying to get the other person to fall into the water below without using their arms. As soon as I was scanning the group for David, he suddenly was beside me. 

  At this point, David was surprised that I was there and I believe we conversed (thought) about why. I believe he was satisfied with knowing that I just needed to see him or know he was alright... just strongly missing my Son. David took me to the building that was like a classroom setting. I was introduced to all of the beautiful young people there and I was able to sit in on the lecture / class. I have no awareness of what was taught or said.. but I feel that I know it on a deeper level somehow. 

  These two out of body experiences helped me to be able and continue on with my own life. The grief and sadness have been extreme, but seeing my Son and knowing that he goes on and is incredibly well and no longer in pain, have helped me be able to live my own life. 

  I have had many other out of body experiences before and after these two experiences with David but I have to say, these two were the most amazing.

    Background Information: 

Gender:    Female    

Any associated medications or substances with the potential to affect the experience?	 No	    

Was the kind of experience difficult to express in words?  	Yes	I am not sure if there was a verbal exchange, yet I could feel everything in a much expanded way.    

At the time of this experience, was there an associated life threatening event?  	No	    

What was your level of consciousness and alertness during the experience?  	100% conscious and aware. I would even say, more than when in the physical body.    	

Was the experience dream like in any way?	  Not at all.    

Did you experience a separation of your consciousness from your body?  	No	    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?  	Love. I always feel love on such a powerful level in my normal, waking life, this was extreme love.    

Did you hear any unusual sounds or noises?	  Just when separating from my body, I have a rushing sound.    

Did you recognize any familiar locations or any locations from familiar religious teachings or encounter any locations inhabited by incredible or amazing creatures?  	Yes	Not in what people are taught as heavenly locations. I experienced beautiful tree's and greenery the first time. The second time, I experienced a dry and arid landscape and a building.        

Did you see a light?  	No	    

Did you meet or see any other beings?  	Yes	I met with my Son and other young people. Love was communicated between my Son and I. I was also allowed to sit in on a classroom experience.        

Did you experiment while out of the body or in another, altered state?  	Yes	    I witnessed a classroom lecture or learning situation.        

Did you observe or hear anything regarding people or events during your experience that could be verified later?  	No	    

Did you notice how your 5 senses were working, and if so, how were they different?  	Uncertain	A feeling of extreme knowing about the love we share.    

Did you have any sense of altered space or time?  	No	    

Did you have a sense of knowing, special knowledge, universal order and/or purpose?  	Yes, but I do not consciously know what it is now.        

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?	  	No	    

Did you become aware of future events?	  Uncertain	I believe that I was told many things but I do not have awareness of what they are now. I believe I somehow know them on a different level.        

Were you involved in or aware of a decision regarding your return to the body?  	No		    

Did you have any changes of attitudes or beliefs following the experience?	  Yes	I had more emotional strength and well being.        

How has the experience affected your relationships? Daily life? Religious practices? Career choices?	  I have always lived a spiritual life and the experiences have reinforced this.    

Has your life changed specifically as a result of your experience?  	No	    

Have you shared this experience with others?  	Yes	I have shared with some of my family and some of my students.   People will often tell me about their experiences and feel safe to do so.    

What emotions did you experience following your experience?  	Peace.    

What was the best and worst part of your experience?	  The best part was seeing my Son. The worst part was leaving him.    

Is there anything else you would like to add concerning the experience?  	I have only traveled to my Son twice. I am not sure if it will ever happen again but I feel that I was given something very special and it is not something that many people get to experience. I feel honoured and privileged in this regard. Of course, I would love to go there all the time but I know it was a very special gift.    

Following the experience, have you had any other events in your life, medications or substances which reproduced any part of the experience?  	No	    

Did the questions asked and information you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?  		Yes	    

Please offer any suggestions you may have to improve this questionnaire.  	It is wonderful to have a place to talk about this and be understood. Thank you!   

  					Experience Description 1/27/2002

  					 One week exactly after my son David passed away, my husband and I were asleep in bed when our travel alarm clock began ringing. This alarm had not been used for two years. It needs to be set and it was under other items. We both intuitively knew that it was David.


I went into David's room to sort some of his things. He died from cancer (brain tumor) and during his chemotherapy, he would smoke marijuana to give him some relief from the terrible vomiting and also to give him an appetite. I was all of a sudden overwhelmed by the smell of marijuana. There was no marijuana in his room as I had given to someone two days before. I felt David's presence at the time and I sat on his bed and talked to him. The odor lingered for approximately ten minutes. I went and had a shower and when I returned the smell was completely gone. This happened about four weeks after David's death.


My sister was awakened twice by very powerful smells and these events both happened about four weeks after David’s death as well. First, she awoke in the middle of the night to the very powerful smell of flowers. The smell was so strong that it woke her out of a sound sleep. It also lingered for about ten minutes. Later when she was asleep, again she was awoken once again. This time to the smell of pickles. David loved pickles more than anyone I've ever known. It was actually kind of a joke in our family. We both thought it was so creative that he would come through with these smells.


At about eight weeks after David's death, I had an out of body experience. This is something that I have done many times in my life so I was not surprised by this at all. This time it was different because I went to where David was. My daughter Michelle (who is living) greeted me so I was a bit confused why she would be there. She took me to where David was. The greenery and the lushness of this place was stunning. David was standing on a brick surface with four other young men standing around him. They were looking at something that David had in his hands. It looked to be paper. He looked up and saw me.  His expression was pure amazement. The most interesting thing about this experience was that I could feel his emotions as though they were my own. He came towards me and me to him... he picked me up and swung me around saying... "I love you, I love you, I love you." I know that we then had a conversation but I am not consciously aware of the nature of that conversation. The next thing I knew, I was back in my body fully alert.


I just had a second out of body experience two nights ago. I again went to see David. Both times I have been wide-awake, fully conscious and aware that I am astral projecting. I went to a beautiful place. There was a mountainside with a large, deep lake or body of water beneath it. There were young people (mostly young men) in pairs all over the mountainside. They were having a tournament or playing a game where they would wrestle standing up... trying to push the other one into the water below. This in no way was violent or mean spirited... simply young people having fun. There was a lovely energy about it. I was scanning the mountainside trying to find David as I intuitively knew he was there. Just then our eyes met... they locked together. It was amazing. Once again... I could feel his excitement and pure amazement that I had come to him. I was on the other side of this body of water looking across at him and before I knew it, he was there beside me. David seemed quite concerned about why I was there and when I reassured him that I just had to see him and know that he was all right... he was quite content with that. Once again, we had a conversation. I am absolutely blank on what we talked about. He then took me into a building that resembled a church in a way. There was a person speaking in the front and the building was filled with many young people. David introduced me to several of these young people who were very kind and warm towards me. Without any memory of saying that I should return home, or feeling that way, I was back in my body again.


A couple of nights ago my husband had to work an overnight shift. This happens rarely and I was feeling a little anxious and worried about being alone. There was a lot of wind outside and many noises. Just after I lay down in bed to go to sleep, I felt the bed depress just as though someone laid down beside me. It was in no way an uncomfortable or frightening experience. It was very comforting and I felt that it was David beside me.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    the first one happened exactly one week to the day. It's quite been four months since David's death and I have had several ADC's

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?           

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?     Severe sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Both times when I saw my son, he was extremely thin but looked very healthy. David had cancer and went from 195 pounds down to 125 at the time of his death. He was 6'1" tall so he was extremely thin. David had a huge scar on his head from the three brain surgeries... also a large bald spot there from the radiation. In these out of body experiences where I went to him... he was very thin but he looked healthy and glowing...very happy. He did not have a scar on his head and he had all of his hair. He had a favorite tee shirt that we put on him after he died... which he was wearing on both of these occasions when I saw him after his death.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    On one occasion I heard my son telling me that he loves me. On another occasion, I was aware that we were talking but I don't remember there being actual words.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     David and I were extremely close, very connected. We shared a wonderful love for each other.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     On the two different events, they were both in very different locations. The first one was at a very beautiful, lush, green and forested place that was a home. There was a brick driveway on which we stood. The second time was at the mountainside where there was a lake. There was also a building that was church like.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I could feel his incredible love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I have a sense of receiving important information but I am not able to retrieve that information now.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?      Believed definitely God exists

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?      Believed definitely God exists

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion: 

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?      Believed it definitely could happen

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?      Believed it definitely could happen   

Did you fear death prior to your experience?      Believed definitely God exists

Do you fear death after your experience?      Not fearful

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was just being with my son and seeing him so happy and out of pain. The worst part is leaving him but I do know that he's around me and I know I can see him again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I've shared this with just a few people. Their reaction is typically, "I wish I could have an experience like that."

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Relaxed

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I'm hoping that my experiences might help someone else that needs some validation of their own.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think you covered it very well. Thank you so much.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sherry_h_adc.html