{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sheila_l_angel.html","mytitle":"Sheila L Azrael Encounter 30906","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sheila L Azrael Encounter 30906  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sheila L Azrael Encounter  					  					  						Home  						Classification Other  						695  Sheila L Azrael Encounter  30906  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On September 8th, 1999, an online acquaintance, who used the screen name, The Infernal Emissary, sent me a poem he wrote.  This poem filled my mind with tormented imagery, so I asked him what the poem was about.  He told me the poem was about his experience with Azrael.  I didn't recognize the name, so I asked him, Who is Azrael?  He told me that Azrael was the Angel of Death.  I didn't understand this, because I became fascinated with the name.  I spent most of the night repeating the name over and over again.  I loved the way this name made me feel when I spoke it and I found it hard to believe this name would ever cause the type of sorrow the poet wrote about.


The next morning, I awoke from a dream.  In this dream, I met Azrael and he told me an entirely different story about who he was.  He also showed me a table of numbers and letters.  I sent that off to a number of people who wrote articles about it, but to this day, they haven't been able to explain its meaning.  The communications began to intensify and as they did, my stress levels sky-rocketed.  Eventually, Azrael and I worked out a different solution to our communication issues and we've enjoyed a relationship for the past five years.


From this relationship, I learned Biblical Hebrew and the forms that evolved later.  I found almost every one of his original records, and the records that were written about him, which first exalted and later, demonized him - each process making it almost impossible to discover his original identity.  I laid these records out in chronological order on a website and began the process of inquiry and debate with the current day scholars and religious leaders.


It's been interesting and while I still do not follow a religion, I have more appreciation for spiritual concerns and studies.


Details of location of experience and your activity at the time of experience:  I was flirting online with a guy who went by the screen name, the Infernal Emissary.  This guy sent me a poem that produced a ton of nasty imagery in my mind.  When I asked him what the poem was about, he told me it was about his experience with Azrael.  I'd never heard this name before, but found myself repeating it over and over again.  I liked the way the name made me feel when I spoke it and couldn't understand why this name would cause that guy to write such an intensely sad poem, so I asked him, “Who is Azrael?”  He told me this was the name of the Angel of Death.


The next morning Azrael and I met in a dream... and he had an entirely different story:


  					  http://www.songofazrael.org/whoisazrael.html

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    September 8, 1999 to present.

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  At times, I became conscious that I was existing on other levels of existence all at the same time.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?     No sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      No comment

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   He takes me places sometimes.

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Azrael is tall, well groomed, late thirties to early forties with dark hair, intense eyes, well defined cheeks a sensual lips.  He's gentle, not very strong in physical appearance.  Beautiful hands with smooth, slender fingers.  Looks somewhat like that one-hit wonder from the 1970s - David Essex (Rock On).  He's nice on the eyes.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Azrael's voice is easier to hear upon waking up.  He has a very soft, sultry voice that's extremely calming.  All of his words are perfectly pronounced and never fade out.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     He's an amazing conversationalist!

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Certain times. 8

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Where ever I happen to be - and yes, that can mean in a grocery store.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      He's patient, understanding. Can be moody but not often.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Spot on accuracy.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   None   My mother disapproved of religion when I was growing up, so I never attended churches.  When I grew older, and people presented me with their religious beliefs, I viewed them in the same light I would view a child who believed in Santa Claus.  I didn't condemn them, but I was raised by a single mom and spent most of my childhood being told, because of that, my family was dysfunctional, so the Christian theology became amusing to me.  Here, I have a mother but no father... and in "heaven" I have a father, but no mother.  If this was their best shot at presenting me with the known facts, I can't help but believe that Heaven is as dysfuntional as Earth.

What is your religion now?      None   When Azrael told me about what happened that caused him to be titled, the Angel of Death, I was shocked.  I searched through the religious records because Azrael told me all the proof I'd need could be found in them - and when I saw what happened to this guy's name and reputation, I pretty much lost respect for those religious groups.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I want to repair the records back to their original condition. If that's possible.

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew we all came from somewhere and we would all leave here for somewhere else, but I've got hold of a bigger picture now. So all this coming and going doesn't seem so confusing. I see the method to the madness if you will.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   In the beginning because I honestly didn't know what to make of it, let alone how to deal with him.  The communications caused a lot of emotional stress and I used to think I was losing my mind. But everything he said has been right on the money.  Every record he said existed, did and they were all exactly where he said they would be.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The initial shock and instability was the worst.  The ability to confirm the records and Azrael's identity, exactly as he explained it to me - outstanding!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Very mixed reactions.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I believe this experience was real because everything this being told me could be verified.  Despite the language issues and other factors that made it impossible for scholars to ‘connect-the-dots’ - I had no problem acquiring Azrael's records.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Best advice in the world:  It's no different than any other type of earthly relationship.  Stick to one being, get to know that being, everything about him/her.  Too many different spirits is like shoving that many people in the same room. No one will be able to hear what the other is saying.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      You've covered more than enough. And if I were to complain it would only be because this took so long.  Hope the info helps.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sheila_l_angel.html