{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sheila_nde.html","mytitle":"Sheila NDE 2313","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sheila NDE 2313  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sheila NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  						679  Sheila NDE  2313  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

My friend, then in her twenties, had been very ill and was in the intensive care unit when she collapsed. She does not recall being taken to the operating theatre or the team working on her. (She was later told by her mother-in-law that a team of twelve doctors worked for three hours before she came around.)

Interestingly, her experience of time does not match the three hours spent by the doctors on reviving her, as you will see. Neither does she recall any sensation of separating from the body or even when that happened.

She says that she suddenly found herself going down a black tunnel. That experience felt 'interesting' because she said she kept observing what was going on. Today, in her forties (which is now, when she told me) she is (alas) unable to recall whatever it was that was going on.

She reached the end of the tunnel where she found a tall/big dark man standing with a lantern. He saw her and said, 'No, no. Not you. It's another Sheila (I am using a pseudonym here), that I am waiting for.' There was no further conversation, nor did she see anybody else.

That was it, the next thing she knew she was awake. The whole experience was narrated to me as though it were very short. On earth, they took three hours to get her back. She actually has no sense of the amount of time she spent in the tunnel.

Thank you for a great website. I find NDE stories inspiring and that many of them tell us how are earthly lives should be lived.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 About 13 years ago  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Collapsed and taken to the operating theatre.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   She described the experience as going through the tunnel, which was 'interesting' and then being sent back. The three hours doctors spent on her on earth was later told to her. She does not know how long her time in the tunnel was.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My friend did not mention this.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My friend did not mention this.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A tall/big dark man carrying a lantern.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A lantern!  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     My freind seems to have enjoyed her time in the tunnel which was not an earthly dimension.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       She found it very 'interesting' while it was happening.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Hindu  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Hindu and practicing Buddhist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I am afraid I don't know who else she has shared it with, but she talks about it very naturally. Also Hindu culture has a very high acceptance of other realms - our ancient texts are stuffed with gods, demi-gods, space ships, other dimensions/realms such as that of Yama the God of death. His messengers are supposed to get people across and are described as big dark-looking somewhat menacing men. But she didn't feel any sense of menace/ fear. So if she did speak people would accept it as a very real possibility/happening.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am afraid I didn't ask her this.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Just was.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sheila_nde.html