{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shelley_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Shelley S NDE 2720","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shelley S NDE 2720  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shelley S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						908  Shelley S NDE  2720  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was on a gurney. I had an out of body experience. I looked from the side and down and saw several people, including the doctor that performed the surgery, were working on me. I felt and knew I was dead. I felt and knew it was okay. I then went through a void (tunnel) floating with an incredible feeling of complete grace. Ecstasy if you will. Total darkness that was entirely peaceful. The feeling of peace, love, ecstasy, grace and an all knowing of what is, was presented to me (through feeling). Much more happened after the operation: life review, incredible knowledge, extremely heightened knowledge of all things. Many 'gifts' had been heightened and released to me from this experience. This had been my second presentation to higher knowledge that had been presented to me. When I was seventeen, I had an experience with beings (I know now they were guides, showing me many things, world situations in the future - another whole story).

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	January 10, 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Cardiac arrest.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All my senses were extremely elevated.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The second I died, then when I was brought back.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was a feeling and knowing of no time or space.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was heightened, (extremely sensitive to light afterwards).  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Unable to accept loud noises (after operation).  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Floating through a tunnel, complete darkness (which was a very graceful feeling).  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not in this operation, but had previously in another experience.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ecstasy, love, peace, grace, joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Like a revolving slideshow. It was hit and miss. Learned about emotional items in my life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        I was shown future events from another experience, when I was seventeen. I was shown 9/11 exactly, but was unaware at the time because the Twin Towers had not even been built, but as soon as it happened - it came back to me. I knew that was what I had been shown.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Much more aware of the presence of a higher power in my life.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Much more aware of the presence of a higher power in my life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All was felt and telepathy of special knowledge and universal order. No fears of the future before and after the surgery.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Many people are very painful to be around. I can feel their energy immediately, and I have learned to trust my feelings. Not judgment, but energy suckers.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many special gifts were heightened. Feeling people's colors around them. Understanding what people were thinking. Seeing into other dimensions. Feeling people's energy that I came into contact with.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All were meaningful.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was immediately guided (about six weeks after surgery) to a local physician whose specialty was NDE's. She helped me tremendously to stay anchored.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Did not know what was happening at first, but I knew what had happened was real and I had no fear. I could not talk to anyone who understood until I was guided to a certain physician in town, who had an experience herself.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is no explanation, it was what it was.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This has been the most wonderful experience I have ever had, and I am truly grateful, that I returned and am able to pass along the knowledge to my family and friends. (About life and death from my eyes.)     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shelley_s_nde.html