{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shayne_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Shayne D NDE 9695","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shayne D NDE 9695  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shayne D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5229 Shayne D NDE 9695  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was at a friend's house with three of my friends. We were inhaling butane gas. I felt my arm flop down and I heard  one of my friends say they'd have to take the can away from me.  

  All of a sudden, my eyes were in the corner of the ceiling as I wondered where I was.  It took me 15 to 20 seconds to realize that I was looking into the room from the exact corner of the ceiling. As it was a rectangle room, I was looking down the lines of where the walls meet the ceiling. I was  able to distinguish the difference in lengths of the lines and the color of the walls. At the end of the lines, there were different colors that made it significantly easier for me to realize where I actually was at.  

   I was scared that I could not see me. Although, I should have been able to see myself, it was like even the chair I was sat in was invisible. Or maybe, what I was seeing was so traumatic for me in the moment that it was insignificant of looking for myself.  I told  myself to shut my eyes. When I opened them again,  I was still there.  After repeating this several times, I felt like I was on my knees even though  I actually wasn't.  I noticed that one of my friends in two different locations of the room wearing the same clothes.  One of him was standing in the doorway, leaning against the doorframe.  The other one of him sat on the three-seat lounge chair.     Then I heard my grandad's voice as he said, 'It's not your time yet.' Something with a jerking motion pulled me out of a thick gelatin-like substance. 

   I was back in my body and my friends told me I was convulsing and dribbling from my mouth for 15 minutes.  I  never did that again.    
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1991  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug or medication overdose.       Other: I was inhaling butane gas and starved myself of oxygen.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It was no different from everyday alertness and consciousness  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was looking down the lines of the wall tops of the ceiling using consciousness to work out my exact position in the room.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     What felt to me like about two  minutes was 15 minutes in the real world  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was no difference. I was using my analytical mind in very much the same way as I do every day.  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    While I was experiencing this, I never recall hearing anything other than my grandpa's voice of who I thought was my grandpa when he said, 'Its not your time yet.'  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared at first, because I didn't know where I was or what was happening to me.  I felt more peace the longer I was there in the corner.  Just as I was thinking about the overwhelming, spiritual  of peace; I had never felt before this. I heard my grandad say, 'It's not your time yet.' Then I was back in my body.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Spiritually absolutely and the fact life has a very good chance of continuing  

  What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic.     
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I wasn't aware that these things are possible 
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel like there is a lot more going on here than what we can see  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I heard the voice of my grandfather  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No     As soon as I heard that voice saying it's not your time yet  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I am spiritual now and I believe in something after this life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It changed me is why I remember it so much. My beliefs changed. I've had people thank me and cry when I tell them my story; when they have lost a loved one. I am very spiritual now.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had a lot of paranormal and ufo experiences to the point where I have been very afraid of what I'm seeing  

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I was or must have been in spirit form to be in the wall with my consciousness and realizing I'm in the corner. That tells me spirit or soul is a real thing and  able to be consciously engage in problem solving outside my body  
  
  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Straight away I didn't explain to my friends but I left that house. I ran to my girlfriend's house to tell her. She was confused by what I was saying and dismissive  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.      I needed to know for sure as best I could as to what happened to me. This is where I learned about  brain death. The fact I saw two of my friend, so the way I understand seeing two of him was that I was seeing him in one place when my brain died and then when it was trying to fire up again.  Like the two different times I had to synchro-mesh to the now. After learning that, I was sure that there's a lot more than just death. Because I saw them as real as you see anything  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     The absolute terror of realizing was in a ceiling, is not something I forget in a hurry. I feel like I was given another chance to do the right thing in life and be a better human to the best of my ability.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shayne_d_nde.html