{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shawna_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Shawna J NDE 20495","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shawna J NDE 20495  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shawna J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						468  Shawna J NDE  20495  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I remember going under from the anesthesia and then suddenly I was jolted awake by the sensation of pulling. I began to rise an as I did I saw my body on the operating table and heard the commotion as the doctors began to work on me because my heart had stopped. I felt oddly emotionally disconnected from the scene in the ER. I was enveloped in a quasi-cylindrical light and continued to rise. I began to go faster and faster until I came to a place, where I finally stopped. There was an angel there and I felt as if I had known this being and this place all my life.  It was so peaceful and beautiful. I asked a couple of questions and we were talking when I suddenly began to fall. It was if I fell right back into my body.  As soon as I hit, I sat straight up on the operating table. The people in the room were talking to me, telling me to lie back and relax.


I began to cry. It was literally as if I were yanked right out of heaven. I went into a deep depression for a couple days afterwards. I didn't tell anyone for quite a while. I just kept going over in my head what we had talked about. I didn't want to forget any word, any sensations, anything. One of the things that I learned was that I was "visited" as a child by angels. They explained the reason why and what it meant. When I told my mother this, she remembered me telling her as a child. Until I died, I had forgotten it. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    02/10/2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death I was going in for what should have been a routine procedure. They needed to take a sample of my heart muscle to diagnose my heart failure. But, something went wrong and I died on the table. I was clinically dead for 12 minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I am unable to describe my soul. The only thing I can say is that and am quite certain that I am a soul and my body is not much more than a house.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Total consciousness, complete alertness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed like time took forever. I was only clinically dead a few minutes, yet I felt I was away much, much longer. I had an extensive conversation before being pulled back.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard the doctors and nurses talking and trying to save my life as I departed my body and was in the emergency room. Once I left the room, it was as if sound no longer existed. I can't explain it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I don't think I was completely in heaven, but I was close.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I communicated with one. But I had the sense that there were others there also. The one I communicated with was so familiar. It had a complete knowledge of my life and me. I don't really think "guardian angel" is the best description, but something similar.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was as if I were surrounded by light. I am trying to find the words to describe it, it is difficult.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      It was a beautiful experience. I felt completely loved and completely at peace.  It was strangely like having every needs met or maybe like there were no more needs.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     But I can't explain it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I was told that I had a purpose in life and that I had not yet met it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I fell very, very quickly back into my body although I had no decision. If it were my decision, I would have stayed

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I was almost agnostic before dying. Now I am sure I have a soul and that there is a God.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It is hard to communicate effectively how special and beautiful the experience was because what we have experienced in life is nothing and can in no way compare to after life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part is the knowledge that afterlife is wonderful and that our body just doesn't matter, it is only temporary. Worst part is feeling separated from the love.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shawna_j_nde.html