{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sheba_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Sheba M NDE 4707","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sheba M NDE 4707  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sheba M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2382 Sheba M NDE 4707  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After being admitted I was given morphine for the extreme pain and my blood pressure was noted as 190/80. Up to this point, I had no idea I had gallstones but had been sick for about five years and was told I had 'indigestion'. Once the morphine worked I felt perfectly fine, was admitted to a private ward (I was in the best hospital in Melbourne and had top private cover, so very good care). Once settled my husband and two small sons went home and the next day I was to have some tests to evaluate the condition of my gall bladder (not a huge deal).

The ultrasound showed two hundred stones, liver function was not great and the surgeon was undecided as to wait to improve and then remove the gall bladder using laparoscope or do an emergency operation. I was hooked up to IV and checked frequently. The surgeon came to see me and although still undecided, he chose to give me vitamin K in case he decided to operate that night. The nurse administered the vitamin K, which I made a bit of a fuss about as I hated the 'rush' through the IV and he gave me the injection in the hip (saved my life I think). My husband and sons left, a friend dropped in and I complained to her I felt 'itchy'- we joked it could be the 'posh' sheets.

I mentioned it to the nurse as he also popped in. My friend left and within a minute, I was going mad with itching and pain and swelling. I pressed the nurse buzzer, he came immediately, and he took one look and 'freaked out'. He ran for help and another nurse came and pressed the emergency button. I was still conscious and they dragged me into the bathroom pouring cold water over me, I remember catching sight of myself in the mirror and thinking 'I'm horrendous and deformed for life' - so bad was my swelling and redness, I looked like I had been badly burned. With the panic button going on around the hospital, I was aware I was in serious danger. I told the nurses that I was going to faint and they dragged me to the bed just in time before I 'passed out'.

At this point, I was lying on my bed unable to move or talk or communicate but I could see and hear everything. People talk of being above looking down but I didn't feel that, I just knew everything that was going on and could see everything but am not sure from what angle or how or why. There were about fifteen people in the room with a crash trolley. I could sense the panic but felt so calm and peaceful I wanted to shout out and say 'I'm not in pain, it's okay.' One doctor was pressing with his fingers on my heart. At this point, I realized, 'Hey I am going into cardiac arrest.' Then the nurse on my left taking blood pressure said 'Blood pressure 70/40. We're losing her.' I knew they were about to use the paddles on my heart when I completely left the room. 

The first thing I see is an endless field/meadow of the most beautiful flowers. I told myself 'Oh this is the Garden of Eden.' (In my mind, there was no doubt about this.) Then right next to the flowers was a huge pipe/tunnel, kind of reminded me of an underground drain only massive. I immediately went into the tunnel - not walking - just floating upright and I could hear a 'whooshy sound'. I again told myself 'Oh, this is the tunnel, I must be dying.' I went further in and then in the far distance I saw the light. Again, I told myself 'I'm really dying, this is the light. If I go through there then I will be in heaven.' (Of this, I had no doubt about and I was very tempted to go.)  

Further along still I saw a 'man' dressed as a monk, what I now realize was a Franciscan monk. I could not see his face but I think that was due to the very strong light behind him. He spoke to me telepathically, at least I did not remember moving my lips nor did he but he was waving me through with one arm, just as you might direct traffic. I then felt he was important enough to be working for God in this important position of helping people pass over, so he was literally directing me to the light and heaven. I really wanted to go but suddenly said to him 'Sorry, I can't go through the light I have to go back to the garden to pick up my children.' Almost immediately I was whisked backed out of the tunnel, I saw the Garden of Eden and came round in the hospital.

When I said I had some uncertainty of explaining things, first it was the noise, it sounded 'whooshy' or 'windy' but someone said to me 'Do you think it sounded like the ocean?' I was like 'YES, YES, YES!' that was the perfect description. It was a nun who listened to my story and I tried to described the monk and I said that I could draw him and she said 'He is a Franciscan monk.' She was in fact a Franciscan nun. But it made perfect sense and I had no doubt that this was indeed a Franciscan monk. I was very reluctant to talk about this after it happened and of course, the hospital was very low-key saying 'Oh you gave us a scare last night.' They had rang my husband who had left me in good health and spirits to tell him that I had had a massive allergic reaction and had been brought back from cardiac arrest. I stayed in hospital for a week, the kids were not allowed to visit as my body was still very badly swollen and looked burnt. Ten days later I had gall bladder removal with laparoscope and of course had red alert stickers everywhere regarding vitamin K.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10.10.92

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had been admitted as emergency patient with gall stones and later given vitamin K as my surgeon felt an emergency operation may be needed due to condition of my liver etc. So it was the vitamin K injection that put me into anaphylactic shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Am not sure, I think when I realized that once I went through the light I could not return, I was so close to going there, so I was very quick to ask to return to the garden. Perhaps this was the highest point of alertness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think when you are put in a new place it's natural to take notes and be more aware, I might have done the same thing had I got lost in an unknown town, everything though was very clear and my story will never alter.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Again this is something I cannot be sure of. The monk spoke to me from his mind to my mind, very clear words, but I never saw his face or saw his mouth move, I also spoke to him but as far as I know I didn't move my lips to speak either, I spoke to him from my mind but with my own voice (if that makes sense).

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I have already written about this in my first account. It looked grey in color just like a giant underground sewage pipe. I could even see very tiny grooves in the cement; it was big enough for me to float through with plenty of room all around me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After entering the tunnel at quite a fast speed initially I saw the light in the distance and immediately knew that this was 'the light' and that heaven was on the other side, the closer I got the brighter and bigger the light and I had to shield my eyes from the brightness.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the garden of eden..i was completely certain of this..an endless field or meadow as far as the eye can see of the most beautiful flowers and colours

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was perfectly fine, happy, and peaceful.  All the pain had gone, my throat was now unblocked it was rather wonderful and I feel very blessed to have experienced this. The only time I got a little stressed was just before I got to go through the light because I realized I could not leave my sons without their mother as they were only two and five years old, otherwise I would have gone without a doubt.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not really. But one day a friend passed by who was young and healthy and I said to my husband 'He hasn't got long to live.' He died four months later, unexpectedly on Easter Sunday. I also said this of another friend of my husbands who also died too young. Both happened to be forty-three, very unexpected but I had a sense they wouldn't be around for much longer. Both had heart attacks.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     This experience was like a confirmation of all I was ever taught - I know it's all real, no doubts and it's very comforting. However, I am not crazy, religious or a Bible basher by a long shot. Just a quiet believer with an occasional voice.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     This experience was like a confirmation of all I was ever taught - I know it's all real, no doubts and it's very comforting. However, I am not crazy, religious or a Bible basher by a long shot. Just a quiet believer with an occasional voice.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I always believed that there is Heaven and that there is Hell, of course this is often taught to us but unless you actually die it's sometimes difficult to imagine what would happen when you die, or where you might end up. Since this near death experience I have absolutely no fear of dying, in fact I am really okay with it, I have no doubt there is a God and a Heaven and life after death. It's extremely comforting to know this and although I don't talk much about what happened to me I have comforted a dying friend with what happened to me and that she would be really happy where she was going. Often before she passed she would ask me to tell her about it and it brought her peace knowing it wasn't the end.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Petty arguments and disharmony annoy me as I realize there is no place for it, what a waste of precious time, but unfortunately I still live with a lot of that as many of us do. Sometimes I need to reflect back to this experience to make me feel grateful for what I have and the chance to live I was given (we can often forget). I love that I can be confident and say 'Yes, there is a God,' and 'Yes I am going to Heaven one day.' I think it's good to share this with people who are either facing death or have a fear of it - definitely don't be afraid!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was all actually very clear except it took some time for me to find the right words to describe certain sounds.  It took some time to identify the person who greeted me in the tunnel, though he was very clear (a Franciscan monk).  Otherwise it was so clear in my mind that I will never forget any detail of this experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I will never forget asking the monk to send me back to the garden to pick up my children - it was my children who saved my life, or at least gave me the choice to live. It was very powerful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first told my husband, we are from completely different religious backgrounds and I thought he would say I was a nutter, in fact he was the opposite and was really interested and believed me and thinks it's an honor what happened to me. I haven't had anyone tell me anything negative but I don't tell a lot of people, some people are fascinated, it even amazes me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just the usual, tunnel, light, thing, I had an interest but now I know it's a hundred percent true and have no need to doubt others. I have only read one article after my experience that was so bizarre because it was as if it was my very own words- most people who experience this have slightly different interpretations, I guess this is just us as humans seeing things as we see them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened as I have told you and there is no doubt in my mind, no one will ever convince me otherwise.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Exactly as above, if you lie or make something up you will eventually get caught out or change your story. I will never change my story, I will never forget it, it is as clear today as it was on 10th October, 1992.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sheba_m_nde.html