{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 6571 6685","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v4_28_january_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V4 January 28 1887","mylang":"de"}
209
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
October 25, 1886.
The twenty-second General Meeting was held at the Rooms
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall, on
October 25, 1886.
PROFESSOR H. SlDGWICK IN THB CHAIR.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers gave an account of a novel class of experi-
ments-some of which he, Mr. Gurney, and Dr. A. T. Myers had lately
seen and shared in-conducted by Dr. Babinski, a physician of the
Saltpetriere, at Paris, and pointing to the transfer of hysterical
affections from one patient to another, under the influence of a
neighbouring magnet. If suggestion be excluded, the phenomenon
seems clearly to be telepathic in nature j and the results which took
place in the presence of the English observers, though not conclusive,
were decidedly striking and suggestive. A full account of these
a.ppeared in the Journal for November, 1886.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
January 28, 1887.
The twenty-third General Meeting was held at the Rooms
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mal~ on
January 28, 1887.
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRBTT IN THB CHAIR.
Part of the following paper was read ;-
I.
AUTOMATIC WRITING.-Ill.
By FuDBRIC W. H. MURS.
PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL ANALOGIES.
I purpose here to continue a discussion which has already occupied
two papers in these Proceeding,,! and which I cannot hope to conclude
in the present essay. The phenomena of automatiBm,-:-the indications
1 See Prooeeding., Vol. II., p. 217. and VoL III.; p. 1.
Digitized by Coogle
!10 .Autcnnatic Writing. [Jan. !8,
given by unwilled or unconscious action of mental processes going on
within us,-offer a field for investigation whose importance is gradually
beginning to be recognised. Graphic automatism-the topic with which
these papers have more especially dealt-had hardly, so far as I know,
been alluded to previously; except, indeed, by Spiritualistic writers, to
whom the merit of the first express recognition of the phenomenon un-
doubtedly belongs, whatever may be our opinion as to the explanation
which they assign to it.
For my own part I have thus far dwelt mainly on three theses. In
the first place, I tried to show that an automatic impulse, a.rising, so
far as we can tell, wholly within the writer's own brain, may sometimes
prompt him to write words or sentences whose meaning he does not
discern while he is writing them,-nay, whose meaning he sometimes
does not discern till after a tedious process of decipherment. In the
second place, I showed that in some cases-in the case of Mr. and Mrs.
Newnham especially,-the content of these automatically-written
messages seemed to be derived, not from the writer's brain wholly, but,
in part at least, telepathically from the unspoken and unhinted thoughts
of another person. And thirdly, by a comparison of some peculiarities
of automatic writing with some peculiarities of speech .and script which
we have some reason to suppose initiated by the rig'" hemisphere of
the brain, I tried to form some intelligible conception of a possible
cerebral mechanism of automatic script in general. .This last inquiry
had a special bearing on the problems of telepathy; since we have seen
cause not unfrequently to associate telepathic impulses-both in their
inception and in their reception-with the unconscious rather than with
the conscious operations of the brain. We seemed, as I thought, to be
getting a hint as to such operations which might be of service in more
than one branch of psychica.l inquiry.
The discussion of automatism, even as thus far pursued, has
suggested so many problems that it is not easy to say in what direction
the general argument should incite us to attempt our next forward
step. ~rom one point of view, indeed, the answer to this question
would be easy. If, like previous writers on this topic, already men-
tioned, I were to treat automatic writing from the Spiritualistic point
of view alone, as affording a greater or less degree of presumption of
the communication with us of departed souls, it would be my business
to pass at once to an analysis of the facts contained in messages which
have been automatically written. Some of the facts thus found I
should be able, as my already-cited instances show, to refer to telepathy,.
to the influence of minds still in the flesh. And I should have to
discuss whether any items of the messages were not so referable;
whether they pointed to the influence or communication of a "departed
soul."
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] .Automatic Writing. 211
All this will sooner or later have to be done in detail. But I am
anxious rather to defer than to hasten the moment of attempting it.
And I say this from no aversion from the Spiritualistic theory, a theory
which, if it can be sustained, will obviously be more interesting, to say
the least, than any other. Still less do I say it with any bias for any
exclusive theory of my own. The surprise, indeed, would be if we were
to discover that this great range of phenomena could wholly be
comprised within the limits of any single hypothesis.
But in BO complex a matter nothing but confusion can ensue if we
attempt to decide on what I may call the advanced questions without
BOme rather fuller knowledge of the preliminary questions than we
have as yet gained. Let it be said at once that the extreme theory-
the Spiritualist theory-of some of these communications is not to be
dispelled with a breath. The evidence for it-though it is soon seen
to be decidedly scantier than certain loose assertions would have
us suppose-is, as we shall perceive, of a nature to perplex a candid
inquirer. Stated nakedly, indeed, it might beget in the cautious mind
nothing beyond perplexity. The canons by which it should be judged
are as yet undetermined. If it is to be profitably approached, this must
be after attempt shall have been made to frame such canons, or at least
to turn some of the simpler cases over and over, and to try to bring
them into BOme sort of relation with more familiar physiological or
pathological facts.
In the present paper then, and in a paper with which I hope
to follow it, I shall dwell mainly on two questions. The first
of these will take us back, in one sense, to an earlier point
than that which the previous papers reached. In those papers I was
concerned to prove that automatic writing was really automatic,-that
it was not in all cases the mere product of a half-conscious fancy,-of
a hand idly wandering, and a dreamy caprice. Having now, as I trust,
shown this sufficiently by an analysis of some of the messages thus
received, I shall go back to a more general discuSBion of the significance
and origin of automatic messages taken per se, as admitted facts,
without special reference to their content.
And secondly, we shall find that, in order to understand the true
meaning of graphic automatism, we shall have to consider other
cognate automatic manifestations,-messages given by automatic speech,
by other automatic movements, and even by sensory perceptions of
various kinds. In this way we may perhaps get some sort of familiarity
with the general type of these phenomena,-some sort of notion as to
the way in which they stand related to hypnotism, to insanity, and,
(if clairvoyance exists,) to clairvoyance,-which may serve as a guide
when we come to deal with meBBages whose content, as well as their
mechanism, offers matter of debate and perplexity.
Digitized by ct,qpgle
212 .Automatic Writi-ng. [Jan. 28,
I start afresh, then, with what may be termed the simple, typical
form of automatic writing. The case communicated by Professor
Sidgwick (Proceedi1l1J8, Vol. III., p. 25) may serve as an example. An
ordinary man, woman, or child, of normal health and intelligence,
finds, either suddenly or more often after several trials, that his hand
will write sentences of which he is not cognisant till they are actually
written. Let us omit from consideration all those specific points in the
messages on which we have already dwelt,-a.nagrams, telepathic
information, mirror-writing, &c. Let us simply suppose (what is in
fact the commonest case) that the automatist can at any time, or at
least can frequently, induce insignificant messages, mainly resembling
each other in handwriting and signed with the same name. And note
that so long as the messages are insignificant in content, (as moralising
reflections, trivial comments on passing events, and the like,) we can
hardly attach importance of any kind to the signature. Sometimes, as
in the case of the :rtiessrs. Schiller, presently to be given, the signa-
tures are merely fantastic, and illustrate the tendency (already noted)
of automatic script to a grotesque puerility, quite independent of the
intellectual level of the automatist. Sometimes, following another
tendency of automatic script, the signatures seem designed to meet
expectation,. and the name of some deceased friend is appended to
matter which conveys no internal evidence of his authorship. Again,
the secret inclination which many persons feel to suppose themselves
favoured above other men, special receptacles of grace, &c., externalises
itself in automatic signatures of a very lofty type,-reaching in some
instances to the very highest conceivable names. And here I must
frankly say that I think that communications thus signed should be &t
once discouraged, and the process of automatic writing discontinued for
the time, in just the same way as in the occasional cases where
"planchette begins to swear." I certainly do not suppose that there is
a diabolic influence in the one case any more than a Divine influence
in the other. But in either extreme there is some slight fear of injury
to the writer. If oaths and rough expressions come persistently,
this, (as was explained in my last paper,) may probably indicate
nervous exhaustion. If" Divine revelations" come, there is &
danger that the writer may flatter himself into the belief that he is
singled out by heaven itself to convey a new message to men. Much
moral teaching of a noble and suggestive kind has, indeed, been often
conveyed through automatic message.&. But where it has been in truth
highest, it has at the same time kept clear of any irreverent assumptions.
These extravagances, however, are of rare occurrence. The general
type of automatic message is entirely unobjectionable, I may even say
entirely commonpia.ce. But, nevertheless, a series of such messages
will show qualities very hard to explain. There ~ ~~CmctJ, ~he
Digitized by ~OU8le
1887.] A'Utomatic Writing. 213
influence seeming to be on the watch for opportunities of communica-
tion, sometimes calling the attention of the automatist by preliminary
jerks of the hand, and thrusting in its comment, so to say, when least
expected. There will be a kind of indil--iduality,. several influences
maintaining each a definite character, each, perhaps, moving the arm
in a special manner, so that the automatist knows what the signature
will be, before he receives the actual communication. And there will
be an apparent thread of memory through the messages of the same in-
fluence; that is to 83Y, the S<Hmlled "guide" will sometimes refer to
passages in his previous messages which the automatist does not con-
sciously remember.
All this,--as those who have witnessed such cases can attest-forms
a sufficiently curious ensemble,. nor need we wonder that in nine cases
out of ten the automatist attributes his writing to some influence
external to himself.
With this, then, as the problem before us, I propose now to
develop in a fresh direction a suggestion made, and partly acted upon,
in my last paper. I there dwelt on my conviction that if we are to
understand ~l phenomena-phenomena transcending, ap-
parently, the stage of evolution at which we have admittedly arrived,-
we must first compare them, &8 fully &8 possible, both with normaland
with cW'T/,(yf'TT/,(J,l phenomena ;-meaning by abnormal phenomenllo those
which, while diverging from the ordinary standard, fall below or, at
least, do not transcend it. I insisted also that we must expect that
supernormal phenomena, if they occur at all, will show many points
of resemblance to abnormal-nay, to positively morbid-phenomena,
without therefore themselves necessarily deserving to be classed &8
morbid in any degree. When unfamiliar impulses arise in the
organism-whether those impulses be evolutive or dissolutive in
character-their readiest paths of externaliaation are likely to be some-
what similar ;-just &8 (to repeat a previous illustration) the same kind
of ache in the gums may indicate to our sensation either the
formation of an abscess or the growth of a tooth.
I cannot find that this principle is set forth in any accredited text-
book. Yet I must believe that it will come to be recognised &8 a
guiding principle in psycho-physiological inquiry; nay, that this view
will be seen to have been inevitable so soon &8 external signs of
psychological facts were grasped with a certain degree of precision.
Thus far the cerebral-psychical changes which go on after the frame
has once been built up have been watched by the psychologist mainly
in their evolutive, by the physiologist mainly in their dissolutive
aspect. The psychologist feels an interest in the life-long develop-
ment of the mind of a Shakespeare or a Goethe. The physiologist,
when he has surveyed his subject's advance to maturity, fimIR lit.tJee
Dlglt'i'zed byGD0014
214 [Jan. 28,
more to notice till senile degeneration seta in. He does not often care
to note such external signs as may tell of processes of cerebral develop-
ment which are still going on during adult life.
Yet such external signs there are; and it is important for us who
are concerned with one special branch of automatism to recognize how
large a part is played in civilized life by automatic movements,-
movements which a man does not know that he is making, or cannot
avoid making, and which give expl'8BBion to cerebral action of which
he is partly or wholly unconscious.
In the first place, there are the movements which are known as
secondarily automatic :-such movements as walking, speech, piano-
playing, which, having been acquired by voluntary effort, become by
use gradually inBtinctive, and illustrate to us in our own persons both
the advantages and the disadvantages of instinct as compared with
reason. The girl can remember the sonata better with her fingers than
with her head ;-there is the advamaglJ of an instinct which is " lapsed
intelligence," but which is more rapid and more certain than conscious
intelligence can be. On the other hand, if the girl has learnt a given
passage in the sonata wrongly, and played it often in that way, she
will find it far more difficult to correct the mistake than it would be
were the passage new to her. There is the diMulvamage of lapsed
intelligence ;-the comparative fixity of the nervous and muscular
synergy, when once established, makes it hard for the organism
to adapt itself to slightly-changed circumstances. I repeat that the
parallelism between these personally.acquired instincts of our own and
the mainly-inherited instincts of the animal kingdom is very close; and
just as we find animal instincts becoming more complex and numerons
as we ascend in the scale of living things, so do we find human secondary
automatisms becoming more complex and numerous as we ascend in
the scale of civilization.
But of course we inherit instincts as well as acquire them, and it is
with inherited instincts-with prifTUJrily automatic acts, that I am here
mainly concerned.
One important branch of this primary automatism consists of the
movements which give expression to face and voice. And my point is
that these automatic movements acquire a continually greater relative
importance both in the race as it advances in culture and in the
individual as he advances in cerebral development,-in middle and even
in later life. The expression of benevolence, wisdom, command, is capable
of being more intense and impressive in the old man's face than in
the face of the youth; and the look and accent of great men forms no
small part of their power. It matters little in comparison that the
adult's power over his voluntary muscles gradually declines. He can
no longer compel the muscles of his legs to adapt thtlmselvps to some
Digitized by ~oo8le
1887.] .Automatic Writing. 215
new feat of gymnastic. But the muscles of his eyes and mouth--quite
apart from his conscious volition-have learnt to express his central
current of thought and feeling more delicately and more forcibly than
in the flush of youth. This fact needs BOme insistence, for it is
constantly obscured by a quite different phenomenon i-the power of
youth to express the simpler emotions with pleasing openness. cc The
beautiful," it has been said, "by the unconscious look of a moment can
utter all that is in them." What this means is that a fair young face
can show love, pity, reverence, &c., in a way that stimulates the
observer's imagination; but the girl's expression may nevertheless be
in reality of a leBB developed, a less complex kind than the minute
muscular shiftings round the eye, say, of an elderly stockbroker, as
he glances down the share-list. The stockbroker's countenance is
not interesting; but what I mean is that years and knowledge
have effected in him the same evolution of automatic action which
they effect in the sage or statesman, and which makes the expreBBion
of the sage or statesman, if we cc sit down in a cool hour" and look
at him, even more interesting than the girl's.
We see, then, that as the race, or the man, evolves, the primarily
automatic actions, and the secondarily automatic actions, form a
constantly more important portion of the motor outcome of his
mentation.
And more than this. We see, also, that if any sudden call is made
on the organism which evokes its maximum capacity, and as it were
shows by a lightning-flash the next stage towards which the evolu-
tionary prOceBB is striving, there is an immediate extension of the
domain of automatic action. A man not only runs from a lion faster
than he ever ran before, because the checks commonly imposed by pain
and fatigue are unfelt, but also he goes on to climb up into a tree with
a purposive complication of muscular movement which he would have
needed to think out with conscious planning at a less excited moment.
And still further; a great orator repelling extemporaneously a
calumnious charge, or appealing to a deeply-moved multitude of men,
will sometimes for a few moments perform with complete automatism
intellectuR.1 feats which few men could rival with full time to prepare.
He will be unconscious of his attitude, -his gestures, his tones of voice
-nay, of the words which he uses, the metaphors which he introduces,
the oratorical effects of pause, reiteration, pathetic or majestic emphasis.
He will be conscious of nothing beyond the torrent of indignation or
patriotism which is surging within him. When automatism reaches
this point, (as is said to have been sometimes the case, for instance, with
M. Gambetta), it is felt to be far more imprellSive than conscious pains
and choice. The orator is repaid for constant effort at self-expression
by finding that on great occasions he can get Jli'ff18el~c~em.d
Digitized oy ~U(5.e
216 Automatic Writing. [Jan. 28,
automatically;-that he can live wholly in the stream of thought and
emotion which is his essential strength, and that, meantime, his
organism will utter more of what is going on inside him than if he had
weighed each word to the full.
This seeming digression is really, I think, important to my
argument. For it is essential that the reader should understand, (and
I know of little already written which will help to such under-
standing), that in studying these automatic manifestations of
mentation otherwise unguessed, we are not necessarily studying some-
thing morbid, retrograde, hysterical; but that it would be quite in accord-
ance with analogy if it should tum out that thoughts and feelings
thus found issue which were in some respects deeper than the subject's
ordinary consciousness could reach, or his ordinary effort exhibit.
In a word, there are evolutive as well as degetll!rative parallels to
the strange phenomena which we shall presently pncounter. We must
not prejudge them in any way whatever; we must not ticket them as
hysterical any more than we must ticket them as Spiritualistic.
And I may perhaps best resume my discussion of them by citing at
length a typical case ;_ case typical at least in its main features, and
specially suitable for record on account of the care with which the
phenomena were noted down as they occurred. The case was sent to
us by Mr. F. C, S. Schiller, B.A., of Halliol College, Oxford, and I
have myself been present at one of the experiments where Mr. F.
C. S. Schiller and his brother, Mr. F. N. Schiller, of St., John's College,
Cambridge, obtained some of the old French writing.
In the following account; it mWlt not be IUpposed that in lpeaking of the
" spirits" of planchette under their BOi-disant names, I intend to endorse the
Spiritualist explanation, any more than I consider the reproductions of the
" mediums'" latent knowledge to be conclWlive in favour of any form of
" uncoDlCious·self" theory.
The experiments in question were conducted during a great. part of the
Long Vacation, with my brother, whom I will call F., and my lister L., R8
"mediums," writing conjointly at first, but afterwards leparately. Of
course, there could thus be no doubt u to the good faith of the •• mediums,"
even if the course of the experiments had not afforded convincing proof that
.the phenomena were independent of their coDlCioul mind. There appeared at
different times no leu than nine .. spirits," of whom four wrote exclusively
with F. and one mainly; another freely with either or both but chiefly with
L., and three exclWlively with L. or with F. and L. conjointly. They all wrote
with a more or leu distinctive style of their own, and, u far u I could judge,
there wu not any marked difference of style when the same spirit wrote with
different mediums. Nor, on the other hand, wu there sufficient evidence to
justify the auertion that the style wu 80 unmistakably similar that it must
have proceeded from the Bame intelligence. But although the evidence was
not conclusive in establishing the identity of the varioWl .. spirit" personages,
there could be no doubt of their complete indepen~mp.!!J W~ll!'"s' con-
1887.] .AutcY1natic W1-iting. 217
acious will. Both F. and L. were at first entirely ignor&nt of what planchette
W&ll writing, and F. remained 110 to the end, nor did the occupationa of his
conacious self appear in the leaat to aft"ect the progreBII of the wliting. I have
aeen planchette write in the same slow and deliberate way both while he W&ll
telling an amusing anecdote in an animated way and while he W&ll absorbed
in an interesting novel; and frequently whole Beries of questions would be
asked and anawered without his knowing what had been written or thinking
that anything else than unmeaning scrawls had been produced.
In L.'a c»e it is true that after some time she came to know what letters
were being fonned and was able to interpret the movements of her hand.
This, of course, made it difficult to avoid, at times, a certain half-conscious
inlluence on the writing, and makes it nece8S&ry to allow for the personal
equation. But it is clear' that this in1luence must tend to harmonise the
answers of planchette with the opinions and will of the medium, and &II a
matter of fact I observed frequent cases, especially with L., of a con1lict
between her will and opinions and those of planchette. Nothing, in fact,
can be more atriking than the entire independence of planchette in matters
of Will and Thought, or more unexpected than the answers frequently
obtained. This will be exemplified by one of our earliest results. Planchette
had been unable to write plainly the name of tho "spirit" communicating,
and 110 we had &liked whether it W&ll man, woman, or child. The anawer W&ll
at length deciphered &II "triangle." For a whole day we tried in vain to
make out this enigmatical responae, and were in doubt whethcr we should
ascribe it to the unconacious cerebration of my mathematical brother, or
whether we had made the acquaintance of an intelligent two-dimensional
being. Next day we discovered that the " triangle" called itself " Eudora,"
and we, of course, &liked what it had meant. "Three in one." " How
then can you be both male and female 1" "By mere accident." After
lOme other questions, a doubt W&ll raised by L. whether .. Eudora" and the
name of the only oth~r "spirit" that had communicated might not be
.. aliases," and she &liked, " Are you and Johnaon one 1" " Yes, one, man
and wife." Here we seemed to get a clue to two sides of the "triangle,"
and proceeded to &Ilk whether there W&ll a child still. "Coming," W&ll the
unexpected reply. Next day we were infonned that the baby was "never"
going to be born, "because it had no~ been bom on earth." This surprising
piece of information W&ll then explained by the assertion that it was being
.. spiritually evolved," and not, therefore, "born." I have told this story
at lOme length because it W&ll the first thing that made us think we might be
in the presence of IIOmething more than ordinary unconscious cerebration,
and I think it well illustrates several of the most remarkable poiuts about
this automatic writing.
It exemplifies :-
1. The unexpectedn8811 of the anawers.
2. Ita independent thought and disagreement with the conscious opinions
of the mediums (for I suppose no one baa ever held planchette's absurd
doctrine).
3. Ita independent memory.
4. On the moral side, ita mendacity and senae of humour.
Altogether it Beemed as if this silly riddle had been propoundlllhl.,l~alv
Digitized by\.JUv(S1e
218 .Automatic Writing. [Jan. 28,
to pique our curioaity on the fint day, with the intention of giving 'he
solution on the next, though, of conrae, it ia poeaible to maintain that
" uncoJl8Cious cerebration " fint accidentally propounded it, and then, after
working it out, produced the lolution.
Of a conflict of will between planchette and the medium 1 will give a
characteristic though trivial instance. I had agreed with L. to go for a
walk after lupper, and when supper was brought in we said good-bye.
" Don't go." We said we must, but at length gave way and promised to
return after lupper. " Good." " Have you got anything to tell us 1"
"Yel, very important."
Of direct thought-transference such as that recorded by Mr. Newnham,
we obtained but one iustance, with the possible addition of a few of the
card experiments.
One day when F. was reading a book and had not been attending in the
lesst, I thought I might as well put the question mentally and wrote it down
without asking it aloud. It was answered in a perfectly unequivocal manner,
and thia was the more striking as I had changed the subject in asking it, and
reverted to a point in one of planchette'l previous answen which I had
before ignored. But for thia and the great difficulty of supposing that this
particular .mawer could have been an accidental shot,1 one would, of course,
have been inclined to ascribe it to chance, but under the circumstances it
must be regarded as an instance of thought-transference at least, although I
have never been able by any conscious effort to transfer imprellioDl to F.,
who ia a fairlv good thought-reader.
It will, of course, be suggested that the question as to the nature of these
phenomena could have been at once decided by obtaining information
unknown to the medium and to the company.
But for several rell80DB this is more easily said than done. In the fint
place the "spirits" were extremely chary of giving information respecting
their personal antecedents, and,in fact, generally made their appearance with
obviously feigned names, such as "Heliod Ecblaza," "Irktomar,"
" Euphorbia," &c.
When pressed they used, after much ingenious fencing, either to refuse
to tell anything or to utter obvious falsehoods. The spirit of
,a "careless rhymer," after writing verses in Engliah, French, and
German, professed its ability to do so in the classical languages.
And as F. said he had never read the flUid, we asked the rhymer for
a quotation. This he was at first unable to do, but, some hours after, he,
unasked, produced the f'lllowing: "Eratimoi kekaloseiai "and "Kouridion
potheoumenos posin." These extraordinary tags were found to be deri,-ed
from the 5th book of the fliad (421, 414), and to represent ~ pa T' P.O&
IC£XoX&lITfa, and ICovp,8wII 7To8iovua 7T0u",. F. then remembered that he had
read this very book, and thia alone, a long time ago. This was certainly the
incident pointing most directly at uncolllCious cerebration, and may, perhaps,
1 The communicating" 8pirit" was giving a long description of the house
where it had lived, and a 8taircase up which somebody had run .. when the
police came." After about half-a-dozen questious I asked mentally, "What did
the police come into the house for? H Theanswer was, .. Th,.,e was ~me crime."
Digitized by ~0081e
188'1.] .A'Uwm.atic W'riting. 219
help to explain the occurrence of an entirely unknown language, namely
Hindustani A" spirit" gave his name as "Lokenadrath," and wrote in an
extraordinary Oriental style, rather resembling BOme of Marion Crawford'.
rhapsodies. On introducing the worda "Allah il Allah," he was asked
whether he was a Mohammedan. "Hindi apkahai." .1 have since been
informed 1 that these worda mean "I am yours," "At your service," and
that .. Lokenadrath" should be .. Lokendranath," and means "lord of
princes" ; and one or two other fragments of Hindustani were similarly
inaccurate.' Now, as F. left India as a baby of eight montha, and has never
since, to the best of my belief, heard any Hindustani spoken, this is surely
a moat curious case of unconscious memory, if such it was.
As far as I can judge, thE: nearest approach to a verification of "spirit
identity" was in the case of a French Positivist artist, who gave his addreaa
as "109 Wankhurst-road, Wandaworth." Of course this name was entirely
unfamilar to us, but on a reference to a directory we found a Wakehurat-
road in Wandsworth.
But all these attempts at getting unknown information are more
or leBB unaatiafactory, and perhaps the moat striking results were
dorded by BOme experiments with carda, which it seell18 at first sight
difficult to explain on any .. unconscious self" hypotheaia.
A card was drawn at random fronl a pack without being looked at, held
out of sight, generally beneath the table, and planchette was then asked to
name it. These experiments were ca.rried on from the beginning with F. and L.
conjointlyor F. alone, but failed with L. alone j but it was difficult to multiply
them, as planchotte strongly dialiked them, and frequently wrote nonsense
(fl.g., .. elest of fordes,") or refused to answer at all. Moreover, it never
prof_d to be able to guess them, but "would try" at tho moat,and constantly
complained that it was "too dark." Hence it cannot be doubted that many or
most of the answers were gueBB-work, but do not the following totals of aU
the experiments made indicate that BOmething other than mere chance was
alao at work 1 In some of the earlier experiments the card was known to
some of those present, though not of course to the medium. The result of
these experiments is as follows :
Experiments. Quite right. Number only right. Buit only right. Total Failure.
II q~ 0 2 q3
1 On the authority of (1) an Anglo·Indian lady; (2) a Balliol Brahmin
of Bombay. [The Oriental rhapsodies have now been found to be mainly
centoes of Mr. Isaacs, worked together 80 &8 to make sense.]
2 I have now found out (December, 1886) that Lokenadrath's description of
his nationality is not &8 totally unintelligible as I had hitherto thought it. He
callell hilll8elf a "Jude poerano," and I have been told that" poerano" is Romany
for gipsy.
3 In one experiment two cards were chosen by different persons-thefille of
heart, and the Beven of clubs. The seven of clubs was guessed. This is put
down approximately as~. Chance alone might be expected to give the
following results:-
ExperimentB. Quite right. Number only right. Suit only right. Total failure.
II U it 2~ 7183
-or rather, since the actual numbers could not be fractional, the last four
reenlts would be 0, 0, 2, 8. Digitized by Googie
220 Amornatic Writing. [Ja.n.28,
This result is decidedly more favourable than the rt>Bults of the series
where the card W&8 unknown to any of the peraons present, a fact possibly
due to the action of telepAthy. There is however a great difference between
the conditions of these experiments and of ordinary experimental thought-
transference. The latter requires great and exhausting concentration of the
mind on the part both of the agent and of the percipient, while in the case
of planchette-writing there is no conscious eft'ort on the part of the agent
to visualise or of the percipient to receive an imprelBion of the card chosen.
And moreover if telepathic imprelBions originate in the uncollscious part
of the mind, and if planchette be supposed to bring out the "thoughts" of
this unconscious mind, it might be urged that the imprelBions of the medium,
if he has any, should correspond with what is written by planchette. But
we found that in one of these cases where the bystanders, and supposed
agents, were cognisant of the card, the medium thought of the wrong card,
while planchette gave it correctly; and on another OCC&8ion he thought of
the right suit, while planchette got it wrong entirely. The results of the
series where telepathy W&8 excluded are &8 follow :_1
Experiments.
52
64
116
Quite right.
2
7
9
Number only rigbt.
11
10
21
Suit only right.
9
11
20
Totsl Failure.
30
36
66
The series of 52 experiments were made at different times, but the aeries
of 64 were made continuously in one afternoon, and at this tinle the
planchette W&8 very wild, and frequently wrote before any card had been
drawn at all.
Also in one case th£. 7 of clubs W&8 guellSed instead of the 9, but when the
card W&8 examinedit W&8 fonnd that the two lowest pips had been accidentally
covered by a piece of paper, so that it appeared like a 7. This, too, is
estinlated &8 a partial failure.
In another case, the card having been drawn in the usual manner,
planchette wrote first. .. Spad," broke oft' and wrote on the line below
" Hearts Queen." The card turned out to be the queen of 'Pada. This
W&8 the most striking instance of a confusion between hearts and spades, which
occurred several times in these experiments, and which I have also noticed
in ordinary thought-transference experiments with F.
On anoth~r occasion I drew a card, placed it on the top of the pack, and
handed it to F. beneath the table. In so doing I could not help catching a
glimpse of the card, and saw that it W&8 black, and, I thought, clubs. Mter
1 In several C&Be8 more than one guess was made, but only the first has
been estimated. Chance alone might be expected to give the following results :
Experiments. Quite right. Number only right. Suit only right. Totsl railure.
52 1 3 12 36
64 11\ ~ 14tR ~
116 2j\ 6/a Digit~~\~Goo81~\
1887.] Automatic W1-iting. 221
a time planchette wrote " No card turned up," and to our astonishment this
turned out to be the case. I was of coune as certain as poaaible that a card
was turned up, and cannot understand to this day how it got turned down,
and F. of coune coulrl haveno suspicion that 10 vital a part of the experiment
had been omitted.1 This experiment has been excluded in making the
estimate. In a few cases the luit was not written, but drawn.
Finally I must describe another kind of experiments, in which planchette
had to spell out words on an alphabet while the "medium" was cl08ely blind-
folded. Atfirst we used an alphabet which he had seen beforehand,andwith the
lettersin the customary order,and on thil "Heliod" succeeded in lpelling out
his name three times. After this another alphabet was used which had nel'er
been seen by him, and with the letters scattered at random about the paper.
On this H E were spelt out correctly, but the next letter was Z, and after
this planchette stopped and failed to spell any other words. A few hours
afterwards, however, it spelt out its name correctly, and answered several
questions, correcting slight errors on repetitilln. (F. had not seen
the alphabet in the meantime.) Altogethl'r we obtained intelligible
combinations of nearly 60 letters. The movements of planchette on
this occasion too were rather striking, as it seemed to move like a living
creature, circling round the required letter, and finally concentrating itself
upon it. We have never been able to get a repetition of thele experiments,
which, thoughtelepathy is not, strictly speaking, excluded, for the others pre-
Bentwere aware of the position of the letters on the alphabet, are perhaps as
valuable as the card experiments. And if it be supposed that the thought of
the bystanders unconsciously guided planchette, how are we to explain a
correction of that thought in its answers 1 I had asked "Heliod" what he
meant by saying he was in the "lluid ,tate "of feeling on the day before.
The answer WI\I "Blind, Point," and on reference we saw that he had
previously asserted he was at the lluid point.
Perhaps, in conclusion, I should make a nete on the linguistic attainments
of planchette. Of the nine " spirits," six wrote only in English, and Beveral
of them failed ignominiously with all other languages. The Hindustani of
.. Lokenadrath" I have already mentioned. .. Irktomar," the French
Positivist, gave us Ipecimens of English, French, and Latin. Lastly, the poet
.. Closcar" rhymed in English, Fl·ench and German, Latin and Greek, and
even sometimPi wrote the last of these with Greek letters. But with this
exception, planchette never wrote any German, though both the mediums are
perfectly familiar with it;, and in their childhood probably knew it far better
than English. li, then, these phenomena are a dre&nl-like recrudescence of
long-forgotten thoughts, this absence of German BeeDll to require some
explanation.' As regards the mode of writing, we were unable to distinguish
any clliferences of handwriting between the various" spirits," except that one
of F.'I wrote from right to left, mirror-writing, whether or no the left hand
was used. I trust I have given an accurate account of the chief points in
1 P088ibly, as Mr. F. N. Schiller suggesUt, the sense of touch might
unconsciously have informed him that the card was not tumed up.
I Bince this was written" Hellod " has shown a knowledge of German and
LatiD.
Digitized by Coogle
222 .A'Utomatic Writing. [Jan. 28,
these experiments, and can only hope that membera of the Society may be
able to throw lOme light on the problema which they raise.
(Signed) F. C. S. 8cmLLEll,
Al800iate S.P.R.
Balliol College, Oxford, 26th October, 1886.
ApPENDIX.
Since writing the preceding paper the experiments have been continued
with F., and I will give a Ihort Iketch of the reaults lubaequently obtained.
The lirat thing to be noted il that F.'I power of writing aeema to have
diminished I8naibly, 10 that whereaa he would formerly write on three out of
every four occuionl he can now only do 10 about once out of every three.
Under thel8circumstancea it baa been impollible to repeat thecard and alpha-
bet experiments. But an interelting experiment waa tried of writing with two
planchettel, F. haring one hand on each. I luggelted this in order to eluci-
date the connection between left-hand writing and "mirror.writing," and
fully expected that the two handa would write the lame communicationa.
To my aatoniahment, however, tho communicationa, though written aimul-
taneoualy, were di1J'erent and proceeded from dift'erent .. Ipirits." I regard
thil 81 concluaive proof that the phenomena hav~ nothing to do with the
medium'l conaciouln8ll, for, 81 every one can eaaily experience for himaelf,
it is quite impollible, atleaat without long practice, to write two di.ffere1~
words at the l&IIle time.
Whenever F. wrote with two planchettea, the left hand wrote mirror-
writing, which waa often very hard to decipher, but we did not obaerve
anything like a fixed rule in this relpect on o';her oocaaioDI. For though
planchette generally wrote in the ordinary way even when the left hand wall
uaed, it lometimea produced mirror-writing with the right hand also. We
have allO had lome inatructive experiments in what I may call conjoint
writing. I mUlt begin by laying that ordinarily I am quite unable to make
planchette move at all. But one night I put my hand allO on, after F. had
lailed, 81 on I8veral preceding daYI, to make it write. Planchette lOOn
began to move and to write intelligibly. I repeatedly took my hand oft' and
the writing ltopped at once. Similarly, whenever F. took hil hand oft', the
writing allO ceaaed, except that on one occuion, when he did BO without
my knowledge, it appeara to have written two or three lettera before ltop-
ping. I am inclined, therefore, to regard the phenomenon of conjoint
writing, whatever may be its explanation, 81 genuine, i.e.. that the aecond
operator really contributel to the relult.
Palling from the method to the matter of the connDunicationl, I should
note that "Heliod" hy Ihowu a knowledgo of German and alluded to
Goethe'l Etcig Weibliche, but that the bulk of the communications
were in French and produced by "Irktomar."
In addition to BOme dialectical vanationa which appear to be ProvenQlol
(e.g., Irktomar u'" paa lou tema, Pour VOUI faire del couruplimena), he pro-
duced an extraordinary jargon which he called "Romaunce" and aacribed
to the time of "Roland" and of .. Charlemagne."
Afterwards it waa found to bo old Norman French, and. mOltly quoted
Digitized by ~008Ie
1887.] .Autf;rrnatic W'riting.' 223
from the Chamoo de Rokmd of the 12th century,811 will appear from the
following comparison :-
"CHANSON DB RoLAND."
1. Carlea li reis, n08tre emperere
magnes.
Set auz tuz pleim ad estet en
Eapaigne. (C. de R. 1-2.)
2. Ne reverrunt lur meres ne lurs
femmes.
Necels de Fra,u;e ki 811 porz lea
afendet~t. (C. de R. 1402-3.)
3. Jo VUB ai mult servit. (C. de R.
3492.)
4; P8IIBet li jurz si tarnet a la
veaprie. (C. de R. 3560.)
PLANCBBTTE.
(lat time.) Car [1] es li reis
magnes empere [re] set auz ut plein
eatet en Eapaigne.
(2nd time.) Carles li reis magnes
empere [re] set auz lutan8 estet en
Espaigne.
2. Ne reverrunt ne pffeB ne
parenz ne Charlemagne, ki as porz les
atent.
3. J 0 VOlll ai mult bien lervit.
4. S'enfuit Ii jourz de bleneut la
vesprie.
F. does not know old French at all, and cannot remember to have ever
read or heam any, but, being strongly inclined towards the unconscious self
theory, suggests that the p8II&&ges produced may have been quoted in some
magazine article, and thus met his eye.1 In any case, however, theae quota-
tions throw an interesting light on the ~ode of thinking of the intelligence
that dictated them. It will be ~en that they are evidently quoted from
memory, and by no means accurate. And in No. I. the first version was
nearer the original than the second; but, as quoted, the words "ut plein"
made no sense, and hence .. lutans," a word which does not, I believe,
occur in the Roland, was substituted for them to complete the sense. That
is to say, the second version is no mere reproduction of an impre88ion in the
memory, but has been subjected to a proce88 of emendation which by UB
would be held to imply the action of conscious thought. Yet during this
time F.'s conscious mind was entirely void of any knowledge of the dialect,
and afortiori could not p088ibly have correc'ed what appeared to him quite
meaningleu. In No. 2 it is evident that only the general drift of the paasage
was remembered. But corresponding to the change of subject from "cels
de France" to .. Charlemagne," the verb "atendent" is changed from
plural to singular, which seems to imply a knowledge of the grammar of
the language.
Lastly, planchette volunteered the information that .. Carles fu carles li
CRUX" (Charles W811 Charles the Bald), which is certainly wrong, and as cer-
tainly could not be derived from the Roland or any sinillar poem, while it is
neverthel_ linguistically correct. It must, therefore, I think, be admitted
that the intelligence which produced it must have po88e88ed a considerable
amount of what we should call conscious knowledge of old French, and such
811 F. certainly does not poBBess.
To sum up then I will only say that the matter of the various communi-
cations (i.Il., excluding the card and alphabet experiments, &c.) does not
1 Neither had Mr. F. C. S. Schiller read any old French.
Digitized by Coogle
224 Autonwtic W1·it·ing. [Jan. 28,
Beem to me to afi"oro absolute pl'OOf that the knowledge displayed could not
pouibly ha\e been latent in the writer's mind, while at the same time this is
extremely improbable in a large number of O&8es. Moreover, both the matter
and the manner of the communications display powers beyond any at present
recognised as nonna!. (Signed), F. C. S. SCHILLER.
January 22nd, 1887.
This case will have to be afterwards considered from more than one
point of view. The card experiments indicate thought-transference,
and possibly something beyond this. The substance of the old French
messages will need notice when we are dwelling on the curious deposits
of memory which these psychical excavations, if I may so say, throw
up to the surface. But for the present I treat the Schiller messages
only in their first and sUpt'rficial aspect, as writings apparently
emanating from several personalities apart from the writer's own;
personalities, moreover, which showed a kind of persistence; which
seemed to lie in wait, and to be ready at any hour to emerge into
characteristic activity. Each of these personalities had a distinctive
character, and apparently a clear memory of its previous manifesta-
tions; that memory being, in one recorded instance at least, more
accurate than was the automatist's conscious recollection. Each
personality seems, too, to have a will of its own; they sometimes
refuse to come when called for; and one per.ona-the so-called Johnson
-disappears altogether in a huff.
All this, of course, would be to the last degree childish, if looked
upon as a mere amusement; to the last degree lamentable. if looked
upon as indicating the kind of occupations reserved for ourselves, after
quitting the body. But as a psychological puzzle it is interesting from
one end to the other; and the very puerility of the automatic jokes
is not the least curious element in the problem.
And I would ask the reader to remember that messages more or less
resembling these are no rarities; that perhaps one in every three or four
families who have given the thing a trial have actually obtained them.
And where were the recipients of such messages to go for any sort of dis-
cussion as to their true nature1 What recognition, even, could they find of
the bare fact that such messages were possible, except the recognition
offered by Spiritualists, coupled, of course, with what seemed after all
the most obvious explanation 7 Those who sneer at Spiritu~lists as the
mere dupes of vulgar impostors can hardly have realised how much
evidence that at least .6e11I.8d to make for Spiritualism has actually
been attained by many a family group of perfectly honest inquirers.
Some attempt to explain automatic messages should surely have
preceded the sneer at those who could hardly, without previous
knowledge of a special kind, have judged these messages otherwise
than as they did.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Automatic W}·iting. 225
For my own part, (while I would still avoid any general state-
ment until many more cases have been discussed), I hold that the
apparent uniqueness of such a phenomenon as the Schiller messages,
-the apparent externality of the dictating intelligence, - do
undoubtedly grow fainter and more questionable as we pass under
review a number of more or less analogous cases which can be
adduced ;~es where two or more psychical currents have manifested
themselves, alternately or coincidently, in the life-history of the same
man. I believe that the tendency to II. severance of this sort may be
detected in more forms than is commonly supposed. I believe that
whenever there is any habitual alteration, physiological or pathological,
of the threshold of consciousness we shall find an incipient formation of
a secondary chain of memories, linking together those periods of altered
consciousness into a series of their own. And when once a second
mnemonic chain is woven, the emergence of a second personality is
only a matter of degree. For any difference in memory involves a
certain difference in character, and in proportion as the two memories
are co-exclusive, (which they may be in very differing degrees), the
moral and intellectual habits founded on the differing memories will be
likely themselves to diverge. The first analogy which I shall offer is
d~rived from the phenomena of dream.
There are two main ways in which dreams afford a parallel to the
automatisms which we are considering. In the first place-and this is
the most important-there is the dramatisation of dream-characters;
their seeming independence of our own personality, from which yet they
are undoubtedly derived. But this topic I shall defer until we como
to deal with inward voices-" the dremon of Socrates," and the like.
In the serond place-and this is what we must now consider-there is
a tendency to the creation of a secondary dream-memory of our own,
so that we recollect a tirst dreAm while we are dreaming a second more
fully than during the waking interval. I do not mean to suggest that
the great bulk of our dreams attach themselves in any discernible way
to a secondary personality. Rather, I conceive that most of our
dreams represent little more than that tumult of fragmentary images
which I believe to be perpetually proceeding within us, beneath the
level of anything which can be called an identity. If we doze for a
moment, we feel this tumult going on; and the dreams which emerge
into waking memory are for the most part a mere jumble of this kind-
the mere diBjecta membra or raw material of a self.
Sometimes, however, there is a faint continuous current through this
tossing whirlpool of dream. There are certain patterns into which the
confusion tends to shape itself, and when one of these patterns recurs,
we remember in our dream its previous presentation. The.flying
sensation,- for instance, which most dreamers have experienced, often
Digi Q
226 .Automatic Writing. [Jan. 28, I
brings with it a vivid recollection of previous flights. And the case is
similar with dreams not distinctly derived from the attitude or sensa-
tions of the sleeper. :Many of us know a dream-house, a dream-land·
scape, which does not reproduce any scene familiar to our waking lift',
but which, each time that we revisit it in dream, appears familiar and
seems to remind us of previous visits. Here, as it seems to me, is a.
first trace of that tendency which sometimes in hypnotised subjects
revives spontaneously in a fresh trance the hallucination which has been
suggested to them in a previous trance.l These dream-scenes are more
or less remembered in waking hours j but, (in my own experience at
least), it is difficult to retain any distinct image beyond the few
minutes after awakening,-which are in some ways analogous to the
period during which a post-hypnotic hallucination persists after the
trance is removed.
By the nature of the case it is almost impossible definitely to prove
that in a second dream we really have recollected something of a first
dream which our waking thought could not recall. The following
account from Mr. J. G. Keulemaus (dated December 6th, 1886) comes
perhaps as near as can be expected to such a demonstration.
Some six months ago, I dreamt I had travelled to NewYork, bysailing ship.
On my arrival I found that the voyage had been made in just two hours time.
I had five hours to spare for businesB and other occupatioDB, (then I intended
to return to London the l&n1e day) and I thought of going through a new part
of the town. There I found everytlling new : houaes in course of construction,
and a newly laid-out park was at some distance. I found myself on a boule-
vard with rows of pyramid-shaped trees. J did many other things, but
could not remember afterwards. In fact, I knew my dream from beginning
to end when I woke up, but the remaining portion faded from my memory
just at the moment I was relating the dream to my wife.
This happened about 10 minutes after waking from my dream. I think
dream-consciouaneBB had, by this time, made room for waking-consciousneBB
-the latter supervening on account of my wife's interruption which cauBed
me to reflect upon other matters.
But on Thursday-the night of 25-26 November--I was Rgain dreaming t
of New York, and was at about the aa.me place where I landed in my first
dream. I knew the place. I was under the impreBBion of having resided
aome time in that town. I recollected that I had been dreaminq of it before.
Although in my dream-consciousneBB it seemed that I enjoyed my 100kitlg
.tate of reaaoning, and even considered my dream as something very silly
because there was no such thing as a new suburb near the landing-place ; in
fact, I dreamt that I was flot dreaming but had dreamt of it previously, yet,
after recoDBidering my dream in my dream, it at once struck me that it might
have been no dream after all, but a reality. I began to doubt whether I had
not been there long ago. The locality which I hnd visited might have
1 See for inltance, Binet and Fere's LIl Mag1letisme A1'imai, p. 165; Uill8'J
de 1& Tourette's L'H1JPftot~, p.314.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Automatic Writi71g. 227
changed or grown older, or might be farther away. I began to force my
memory to get hold of past times, and then, suddenly, I was again in that
particular part where the houses were being built, where I saw the park and
the boulevard-there they were, the trees, too. I looked at them carefully,
and now discovered them to be young specimens of weUillgionia gigantea-
they had grown considerably since my previous visit.
When I had come thus far, all the incidents of my previous dream
recurred, and there were many placp.s I visited now for the second time
which I remembered were there on my first visit. It would be tedious and
unimportant to relate the whole of my nocturnal expeditions. The only re-
markable fact is that I knew and remembered, in dream-life, what I had
forgotten in my waking-state. I was certain I was not dreaming on the last
occasion, and then came to the conviction that the dream I dreamt of was a
reality also, but belonging to the forgotten past.
Of course when we get to developed accesses of somnambulism, this
continuity of memory between one access and another is admitted, just
as much as in hypnotism itself. I need not argue these points here. My
object is rather to show that the sleep-waking state, natural or induced,
does not stand alone in its tendency to generate a secondary memory, a
secondary manifestation of the Self, but that this tendency shows itself
whereven there is any habitual shaking-up of those elements. To look at
life through the hypnotic trance, some persons might say, is like looking
at it through a prism. Of course you get'the same effects repeated each
time that you do BO. Well, I am here arguing that to look at life
through dreams is like looking at it through a kaleidoscope,-a poor and
broken one,-but that, nevertheless, random though the results may
seem, there is a certain tendency here, too, to a repetition of the same
effects. In fact, I may generalise and say, "Whatev€'r mode of distur-
bance be applied to the psychical elements, .there will be a certain con-
gruity between the results of each application of each special disturb-
ing agency, and every recurrence of such congruity "ill tend to the
formation of a mnemonic chain."
Let us tum now to another form of psychical disturbance, -that
caused by drugs. Here, too, we know that in such cases as De
Quincey's the visionary scenes which opium summons up resemble
each other,-and seem to the patient to be connected by a thread of
memory. I do not, however, know of any definite case where a man
who did BOme deed under the influence of opium remembered it when
under opium again, and not in the intervening period.
More familiar to English experience is the case of alcoholic
intoxication. And here the similarity of the stages through which any
given man passes-of the remarks which he makes-in each successive
fit of drunkenness-is obvious enough. Could we persuade some
correspondent to write us a letter each time that he was in (say) the
maudlin phase of drunkenness, the series of letters would res~ble 1\
Digitized by '(t'§>0gle
228 Automatie W1-iting. [Jan. 28,
series of planchette-messages in several ways. In the first place, they
would express a character differing from his normal character, but
congruous with itself. In the second place, the handwriting would be
larger and laxer than his ordinary script. And in the third place, our
correspondent, when sober, might very probably know nothing of the
contents of the epistles, and might even contest their authenticity.
I do not doubt that, with more careful experimentation, we might
go further than this, and find frequent cases where a drunken man
recollects an act done in a previous drunken fit, but lost to memory
during the sober interval. One such story-too trite to repeat here-
has done duty in many a trea.tise since the days of Ma.cnish and
Abercrombie. I am glad that a communication which Mr. Keulemans
has kindly sent me enables me to give another, and more detailed,
example.
Whilst travelling in Africa, I had a negro who used to indulge in over-
doses of brandy. One evening on coming into my tent, I found him busy
moving my instruments. Some moments after I discovered he was drunk.
After turning him out, I went to sleep. Next wonting I missed a scalpel and
a pair of pincers. Remembering that my negro had moved them the evening
before, I interrogated him as to what he had done with the instruments. He
swore he had never touched them. (Negroes as a rule swear to anything, but
my man was an exception to this rule.) I made him look, and searched my-
self, but in vain. Two days later he was again slightly intoxicated, though
BOber enough to understand me. I mentioned the lOBS of the instruments.
He began to reflect, but brandy was gaining on his mind, and he went away
to his hut. Later in the evening another negro returned the instruments to
me, saying he had taken them out of my servant's hands, fearing he would
do harm to himself or to others whilst drunk. I then learnt that he had been
watched taking them from a box belonging to a friend of mine. My friend
told me that the negro went straight for the box and took the instruments
away, without seeming to notice my friend or discovering that he was noticed
going to the box, and that he was requested to state what he wanted. The
next morning he knew nothing of what had occurred. All he did recollect
was that he had been very drunk, and had gone to sleep. The distance from
my rooms to those of my friend was about thirty yards. Although in the 1
same house, my drunken negro had to go round several corners, descend two
staircases and mount another-all this in pitch darkne88. On his way to
and fro he passed several servants, but did not appear to notice their
presence.
I may briefly cite here a well-known case of Dr. Dufay's,l which
affords a precise 8QTnnambuZic parallel to this revival of drunken ,
memory in a second intoxication :-
A respectable servant girl was accused by her mistress of having
stolen certain objects of value, which were missed from their usual
1 Revue Scielltijique, December 1st, 1885, p...703. I
ized by ~oog e
1887.] Automatic Writing. 229
place. Sht' was committed for trial, protesting her innocence; but
could make no suggestion whatever as to where the valuables could be.
Fortunately for her, Dr. Dufay, who was then physician to the prison
at Blois, recognised her as a girl who had previously been in the service
of Dr. Sirault, who had frequently hypnotised her. He asked the girl
whether she thought that she ever walked in her sleep' but she knew
nothing of doing so. The nurse, however, told Dr. Dulay that the girl
did in fact walk about every night in the dormitory.
Dr. Dufay took the hint and hypnotised her-and the girl then at
once told him where the objects were. She had put them in a fresh
place, during a somnambulic access, for greater safety. When she did
so she had of course meant to tell her mistress; not knowing that when
she next saw her mistress she would have awaked from her trance, and
would know nothing of what she had done.
All was now put right. The objects were found; the girl was
released; the mistress apologised ;-and probably, though we are not
told so, locked the young woman into her bedroom at night henceforth,
to avoid suffering from her somnambulic zeal.}
I have suggested that whatever mode we may choose of modifying
the arrangement of our psychical elements we shaH find that each
several disturbance tends to a certain congruity of r.esult on each repeti-
tion. If in dreams we shuffle the mosaic of our psychical fabric as in a
kaleidoscope, we may perhaps say that in drunkenness we look at it
through a superincumbent layer of semi-transparent liquid. Well, the re-
sult of pouring this liquid will not be only to dull the original picture,-
there will be phenomena of refraction, as we look at the picture through
the liquid, which will be congruous among themselves. Such is the simi·
larity of successive drunken fits, tending here also to the creation of a
new mnemonic chain.
Now let us disturb our psychical mosaic in a still more violent.
way. Let us explode a mine under it; let us assume, that is, an
attack of epilepsy. Now, as regards epilepsy, my contention will be
readily admitted up to a certain point; but beyond that point the
evidence will be found as yet very scanty.
Both as regards pre-epileptic and post-epileptic states, it will be
admitted that on Ruccessive occasions these states are apt to be
congrttOUlJ in the same patient. The" psychical aura" or "dreamy
state" will be much the same before each of his attacks. And where
there are post-epileptic hallucinations involving more than mere con-
fusion, the same type of hallucination generally recurs pretty regularly
for any given patient. It is hard to say how far in one such access
J O_"e in this caae the homogeneity of the spontaneons and the induced
IIOmnambnlism. It is probable that many spontaneous somnambulists would, if
hypnotised, be able to tell what they had done in their nocturnal eXOlD'llioPfhle
Digitized by ~U"-'<3
230 .Autornatic Writing. [Jan. 28,
the patient remembers the feelings of the previous access; but I
should conjecture that further inquiry might show traces of the
gradual formation of a new chain of memory,-turbid, indeed, and
confused,-but existing separately from, and parallel with, the memory
of normal life.
On this view, for instance, I should rather expect tha.t in cases of
tkfinite cure of epilepsy some of the features of the aura, as previously
experienced and recollected, might altogether fade from recollection.
I know not how far this has been noticed hitherto. But I observe a
recent case where frequent attacks of epilepsy were preluded by the
VISion of a bright red light and followed by hallucinations
.. Singularly enough, since his recovery tha patient has forgotten all
about either the lights or the hallucinations, and is now unable to
recall their nature, although formerly he described them with some
accuracy." I
I should infer from a case like this that there was an incipient
formation of a separate mnemonic chain i-that is to say, that the pre-
and post-epileptic hallucinations, like hypnagogic and post-hypnotic
hallucinations, tended to form a separate epileptic-like the separate
hypnotic-memory; and consequently dropped out of normal memory
when the latent possibility of their epileptic revival disappeared.
And I have one case-cataleptic, as it would seem, rather than
epileptic in character,-which, dista~t and imperfectly reported though
it is, illustrates this view with singular vividness.
The case was sent to Professor Barrett, in 1876, by a clergyman,
then vicar of a London parish, and fa.ther of the subject. He did Dot
choose to give further particulars or to allow his name to be published.
My son waa, in his 17th year, attacked by what waa &aid to be
cataleptic hysteria. At their first commencement they were little more than
prolonged fainting fit.; afterwards, each attack began by his paasing in an
instant into a state of complete rigidity. Occasionally he would remain for
five minutes to a quarter of an hour in that state, retainiJlg the attitude in
which he was when attacked, aa if made of marble, with his eyes open and
fixed and perfectly lIDconscioua. After a time he would rise with a sigh,
move about, and speak without the Blightest hesitation or incoherency, and
thence continue for hours or days, leading an entirely separate existence, not
recognising friends or relations or even the way to his own Wroom, and
taking no notice if addre88ed by his own name, writmg letters with another
signature, always imagining hinlself to have arrived at middle-age, aDd
alluding to incidents of his imaginary youth which teemed with echoes of
his paat reading; he was most courteous and pl8&8&Ilt in hi3 manner,
1 Case of epilepsy of six years' duration: complete recovery after surgical
operation.on the skull and braiu. Hughes-Bennettaud Gould, BriUM Medical
Journal, January let, 1887. Digitized by Google
1887.] .Automatic W1-iting. 231
excepting when any doubt was implied as to the accuracy of any statement
which he made.
At times all his faculties were in a moat excited state. He would continue
for hours playing games of skill with almost preternatural dexterity ; he would
repeat to the air pages of poetry; and he would play and sing in a wild and
original manner, of which he was incapable at uther times, quite unconscious
of the presence of others and impervious to any interruptions. In this state
he has continued for a week at a time, going out with us to dine with old
frienda, ",hom, howel"er, he never recognised, but treated as new acquaint·
ances. He always spoke of his parents as far off in BOme distant Eastern
country, in which he himself had been born, and spoke to us (his father and
mother) as kind hosts and friends whom he was BOOn to leave. Suddenly
he would fall to the ground, roll about in convulsive agony with loud groans,
and, a little water being poured into his lips, would get up and go on talking
upon the subject of conversation on which he had been engaged at the time
of his seizure, and without the slightest remembrance of anything that had
pasaed meauwhile. These attacks continued every few days for more than
two years, during which he was forbidden all kinds of study. At the age of
19 we were advised to send him on a voyage, and accordingly he paid
a visit to an uncle, a military officer at Madras; from thence he returned in
six or seven months, quite cured, went up to the University of Cambridge,
where he went out in honours, and is now at the bar. These attacks never
came upon him whilst actually employed, but generally at church, in bed,
or during quiet conversation; they were often induced by anything that
vexed or startled him. He has since told me that he might have resisted
them, but thattheycame upon him with a sensation of pleasant drowsineas that
fascinated him. Certainly he was the worse for any display of sympathy. I
may add that he suffers now at timeB frum some defect in the circulation
which prevents great bodily exertion and which produces pain in his heart
and head ; in all other respects he is hale and hearty.
This clergyman and his wife are now dead, and the publication
of the name was not permitted. A lady, who also objected to the
publication of her name, and who also is now dead, wrote at about
the same date to Professor Barrett as to this CMe.
I have known from infancy the son of a respected clergyman in
London (also known as an author and artist), who, being overworked Bome
few years ago in competing for a scllOlarship at Cambridge, became subject
to fits rOllembling epilepllY for a period uf Beveral monthll. After one of
these he would apparently recover; be perfectly quiet, kind, and courteous,
and a thorough gentlemall in every respect. But inthill condition hed'id
not recognise any of his friendll, and on one occasion he explained to me
"the extraordinary fact that the lady who hfld just left the room was under
the delulliGn that IIhe was hill mother, and that excellent old clergyman
called himself hill father." At lIuch times his habits and tastes were very
different from his ordinary ones, and his father told me that his powers
were heightened to an extraordinary degree, especially in the clWlllics, of
which (at 16) he seemed a master, and in mU8ic. In his normal cunditiun he
was a fair claBllic, good for his age, and he could play an easy. accompani-
Digitized by Coogle
232 .A tdornatic lVrit'ing. [Jan. 28,
ment by ear,-just a few chords,-but in this secondary state he played the
most difficult music of Mendelasohn and Beethoven with perfect execution
and extraordinary taste. 1 Another fit would restore him to his normal
state, when he knew nothing of the other; and for Beven!. months he thus
lived a life of double identity, taking up each unconsciously just where i&
was broken off.
It is much to be regretted that there is no medical report of this
case; but the account given shows that it must havo been in some ways
intermediate between ordinary instances of post-epileptic hallucina-
tion and the alternating personalities on which Krishaber, Ribot, kc.,
have dwelt. The exaltation of faculty during the secondary state
deserves especial notice in relation to some similar exaltations which
we shall find accompanying automatic action.
An interesting connecting link, again, is afforded by the accounts
of possIJssion which have come down to us from the" Ages of Faith."
I take as an example the recently-published autobiography of Sreur
Jeanne des Anges.2 Smur Jeanne was the Superior of the Ursulines of
Loudun, about 1630-1665, and was one of the most ardent admirers,
afterwards one of the fiercest enemies, of the unfortunate Urbain
Grandier, who was burnt alive in 1634, on the charge of having
bewitched the Ursuline nuns. Her manuscript autobiography has
fallen into the hands of editors of a type which she can hardly have
foreseen, Drs. Gabriel Legue and Gilles de la Tourette. These physicians
have carefully analysed the symptoms which she narrates, and have
shown that her affliction may be classed as a well-developed case of
hystero-epilepsy, of the kind now so often described by the Sa.lpetriere
school.
Our present interest lies in the pIJTsonalitiu which she gives to the
demons whom she supposes to possess her,-who are in reality mere
ob~ectifications of different series of hysterical attacks.
Just as the automatic writer has a group of soi-disant guides or
"controls," who take it in turns to direct his hand, and \!ach of whom
maintains a specific character of his own,--even so does Sreur Jeanne
describe Asmodeus, Leviathan, Behemoth, lsacaaron, Balaam, Gresil,
and Aman,whose diverse presence she apparently recognised mainly by
the special trBin of undesirable emotion which each inspired, but
partly also by their words and writings. A facsimile of a letter of
Asmodeus is given by the learned editors, but the writing does not
perceptibly differ from Sreur Jeanne's own script.
And Dr. Gilles de la Tourette informs me tha.t there are letters,
1 This seems to be only an exaggera.ted report of the father's more
probable statement that .. he would play in a wild and original manner."
2 Babliotheqlle DUwoli'lltc (Collection Bourneville). Paris: Aux Bureaux du
Progres Medical, 1886.
izedbyGoogle
1887.] .Automatic Writi-ng. 233
also in Smur Jeanne's own handwriting, which profess to come from
the other demons too-such letters being habitually written by the
Sister during the process of exorcism, which usually brought on a
hystero-epileptic attack. The substance of the letters reflected, no
doubt, the foulness and malignity of the Sister's own mind; but,
nevertheless, the modern hysteriologists who have discussed the whole
affair do not suppose that the Sister comciously simulated the writing
or speech of devils through herself. Her diabolic script and utterance
were probably (though not certainly) purely automatic.1
It must be remembered that Smur Jeanne was perfectly sane during
these years of possession, sane at least in the sense that she governed
her community, plotted savagely against her enemies, and made religious
capital out of her real or fictitious stigmata; but that, nevertheless
there is no doubt whatever that she believed in these possessing demons
-who, as I say, were in reality the incarnations of hystero-epileptic
attacks.
Now, I certainly do not mean to trace any moral analogy between
these distressing products of Smur Jeanne's imagination and the
"guides" of the planchette-writer-which, as I have said, so far as I have
seen, are almost always harmless, generally even sermonising entities. So
far as my experience goes I do not see that planchette-writing has any
connection with disease of mind or body, or any tendency to evil of any
kind, except in a few cases of great credulity on the writer's part, a
credulity which such discussions as these may render-it is to be hoped
-somewhat less common. Rather is Smur Jeanne's case parallel
in another way; as showing the tendency of the individuality to split
itself up into various co-ordinate and alternating trains of personality,
each of which may seem for a time to be dominant and obsessing, while
yet the habitual sense of the ordinary self may persist through all these
invasions.
We have briefly noted the incipient rearrangements of personality
which follow on the kaleidoscopic shiftings of dream, the blurring
refractions of narcotism, the explosive scatterings of epilepsy.
And we know, moreover, that there are It. few instances where the
change in the personality, perhaps suddenly induced, is profounder
and more permanent than in any of the above-cited cases,-where it
presents a readjustment "pparently including nearly all the old
elements, and shaping them, so to say, into a new person, in some ways,
perhaps, superior to the old. Changes like those of FeIida X. (so
often already alluded to), of course include my present subject; for they
involve a series of actions which, though conscious from the point of view
1 See Dr. Legtl~'8 Urbain Grandier Ilt IllS P088Uie8 de Loudun. Paris :
Baschet.
Digitized by Coogle
234 .A'Utomatic Writing. [Jan. 28.
of one of the two personalities, are automatic from the point of view of
the other. But they involve so much beyond what I am here concerned
with that it would only confuse my argument were I to treat of
them here.
There is, however, one case of this kind to which I must briefly
refer, since an actual experiment in automatic writing was made, which
curiously illustrates SODle of those with which we shall have to deal.
Dr. Mesnet 1 records the case of a soldier, F--, who received a
gunshot wound in the head at Sedan, and was afterwards subject to
periodical attacks, lasting for about a day in each month, of a kind of
somnambulism, during which he hears, tastes, and smells nothing j and
hardly sees at all except when the sense of touch calls his attention to
objects, which he can then, as it seems, see distinctly.
During these accesses his actions seem purely automatic,and are for
the most part an exact repetition of his every-day mode of life at
the hospital. But by tactile suggestion the memory can be made to
go back to an earlier epoch.
Thus if a cane is put into his hand in a way which suggests a rifle,
he goes through the movements, and utters the brief cries, of battle :
"Henri!" "There they are! at least a score of them!" "We must
try and settle this between us !" &c.
Now let us see in what way ihe act of writing revivified past
experience. I abridge Dr. Mesnet's account (p. 18 sqq.) which
contains several points to which we shall hereafter have to refer. "He
passed his hands over the table j felt the handle of a drawer j opent'd
it and took out a pen, which at once excited in him the idea of writing.
He felt in the drawer, and took out some sheets of paper and an
ink-bottle. 'fhese he placed on the table, sat down, and began a letter
addressed to his general, urging his own good conduct and courage, and
asking his general to endeavour to procure for him the military medal.
" The faults of spelling, &c., in the letter were neither more nor less
numerous than was habitual with the subject in his normal state. The
facility with which he wrote, keeping to the true lines" showed
that he saw what he was doing. To test this, we repeatedly placed
a sheet of iron between his eyes and hand. He continued to write
a few words illegibly, then ceased to write, without showing impatience.
When the obstacle was removed he finished the imperfect line, and
began another. The sense of sight was therefore needful to the written
expression of the su~ject's thought.
"The ink in his inkstand was then replaced by water. He perceived
the faintness of the letters traced, wiped his pen again and again, but
I De rA uto7llotismt de III lYUmoire, &0. Par Ie Dr. Ernest Me&net.
Paris, 1874. Digitized by Google
1887.] .A'Utomatic Writi71g. 235
never looked at the ink-bottle.
awakened by touch alone, and
was actually in contact.
His field of vision, it seemed, was
was limited to objects with which he
"He was writing on a sheet of paper which lay on "pile of about ten
similar sheets. We quickly drew this top sheet away, and his pen
continued to write on the second sheet. When he had written about
ten words on the second sheet we snatched this also away, and he
con.inued his phrase at exactly the same point on the third sheet.
. This process was repeated, and on the fifth sheet there was nothing but
his signature at the bottom. Nevertheless, he read over and corrected his
letter on this bla!lk fifth sheet, scattering stops and corrections over the
empty page, each of which corresponded to mistakes made on the co-
ordinate poin's of the pages which had been snatched away from him."
On a later occasion (p. 23) pens were put in his way again; and as
soon as he touched them he sat down and began a letter to a friend,
this time making an appointment for the evening, after a concert at the
cafe of the Champs Elysees, at which (a.s he supposed) he had to sing.
Some slight cha.nge in the surroundings had carried his automatic
reminiscence back to this other phase of his past career.
Here, then, we have automatic writings appearing to proceed from
the writer's known personality, but projected backwards to an earlier
point of time. And I wished to cite them here for purposes of COlli-
parison with writings professing to emanate from a personality
other than the writer's, but at the present moment of time. We
shall find, I think, that this is not necessarily a deep-seated distinction;
rather that the automatic writing,while representing some dislocation or
rearrangement-some" allotropic form," as I have elsewhere suggested
~f the writer's per"onality, yet may sometimes take its superficial
colour from some almost accidental circumstance,some suggestion round
which the flow of more or less incoherent mentation crystallises into
definite shape.
In this strange case of Dr. Mesnet's we have noted an experimental
analogy to the spontaneous automatic writing which forms our special
topic. But that experiment was practically irreproducible; it depended
on a cerebral lesion which may never again be observed in just the same
form. Ca.n we not find any easier, commoner form of experiment which
may give graphic results compal'able with our automatic cases 1 What
of hypnotism 1 the reader may ask. Cannot hypnotic subjects, in an
alert or somnambulic state, be made to write' and what is the nature
of messages thus written ,
This, indeed, will be a special1y close analogy. For in cases of
automatic writing, quite apart from hypnotism, we oftell see the writer
fall spontaneously into a state resembling the hypnotic trance, during
which state the writing is sometimes continued, sometimes An~d
DlgTtlzeooy 0"-''-'(51.''-'
236 Auwmatic W'riting. [Jan. 28,
by a profounder stage of apparent lethargy. I have repeatedly witnessed
this phenomenon in automatists personally known to me; and it
constitutes one of the points urged by Spiritualists as showing the
possession of the writer by an influence from wit,hout. "He is
mesmerised," they say, "by a spirit." It is plain, therefore, that,
whatever may be the true explanation of this intermixture of trance-
states with automatic writing, it at least recalls prim4jacie the known
effects of hypnotism.l
What experiments, then, have been made on the writing of
hypnotised sttbjects 1 There have been MM. Binet and Fere's experi-
ments as to the influence of a magnet in reversing the direction of the
script--experiments which English observation, so far as I know, haa
not yet confirmed. And there have been the experiments of MM.
Richet, Hericourt, Ferrari, de Rochas, &c., on the modifications of
handwriting which ensue on a suggestion made to the subject that he
is (say) Napoleon, or an aged man, or a young child. These
experiments are easy to repeat, and they will be found of
considerable importance when we come to consider the significance of
changes in the char!Lcter of our automatic script.
But beyond this, little notice has been taken of the writings of the
hypnotised,-probably because communication with them can with less
trouble be conducted verbally. Nevertheless, I haye known of one or
two subjects who could write, but not speak, in the trance; and I
think that, wheneyer a hypnotised person refuses to speak, an effort
should be made to induce him to write. It was reserved, however, for
M. Pierre Janet to discover a method by which, in an exceptionally
sensitive subject, hypnotic writing, prolonged by suggestion into the
normal state, could be made a means of communication with the
hypnotic self, coincidently with ordinary verbal intercourse with the
waking self.
The case of which I must now give a summary may be said to
mark the highest degree yet attained of proof of the origination of
automatic writing in the recesses of the writer's own identity. It will .
be seen that in this case a secondary self was first created,--or rather,
I should say, artificially detached from the complex of cerebration,-
1 As this paper passes through the press, Mr. Hugh Wingfield, of Caius
College, Cambridge, has described to me an experiment which additionally
illustrates the kinship between automatic writing and hypnotic suggestion.
Mr. Wingfield is a powerful hypnotiser, and can often impress commands on
subjects in the waking state. He suddenly ordered a friend (whom he had
never hypnotised) to look at him, and to write. The friend wrote coherent
sentences in several languages,-especially in Servian, which ho had at one
time habitually spoken,-without having any notion as to what he had written.
So soon as the hypnotiser's will and ~aze were removed, the writiIur,'ttloDpeci.
Digitized by ~UC7(5lt:
1887.] Automatic Writing. 237
and that then automatic writing was found to be its best mode of
manifesting itself,-a path of externalisation which could be maintained
throughout the full apparent activity of the primary self.
The case is Professor Pierre Janet's; and I abridge his account as
given in the Revue PhilosopM,que for December, 1886.
The subject was a girl of 19 (M. Janet calls her L.-say Louise,
to avoid confusion from too frequent use of initials in these cases),
who was highly hysterical, having attacks daily of several hours' dura-
tion. She was also devoid of the sense of pain, or the sense of
contact, so that she" lost her legs in bed," as she put it. I may begin
by saying that M. Janet and Dr. Powilewicz cOUlpletely cured her,
mainly by hypnotic suggestion, so that the phenomena which I am
about to describe,-though morbid in the sense that they occurred in a
morbid person,-were healthy in the sense that they were incidental to
a process of cure. The physical indicia of the different stages of the
hypnotic trance satisfied the observers of its reality.
In the first place, Louise offered the usual phenomena of a good
hypnotic subject. Post-hypnotic suggestion succeeded easily ;-that is,
the subject could be ordered, when in the trance, to perform some act
after waking, or to fall asleep again at a given signal; and after being
awoke she would execute the act, or fall asleep at the signal,-without,
of course, remembering in her waking state the hypnotic command.
At first, however, it was necessary that Louise's own will should accept
the command; or, to speak more accurately, that the hypnotised
subject should assent when she was told to do something on awakening.
When the command was an unwelcome one she would say no instead
of '!IeB, and would not fulfil it on awaking.
On her fifth hypnotisation, however, Louise underwent a kind of
brief catalepsy, after which she returned to the somnambulic state; but
that state was deeper than before. She no longer made any sign,
whether of assent or refusal, when she received the hypnotic commands;
but she executed them infallibly, whether they were to take effect
immediately, or after awaking. Moreover, there was a singular develop-
ment of a phenomenon on whose importance I have often dwelt in these
pages. The state of the awakened subject while he executes a deferred
suggestion is never a perfectly normal one; the suggested action is acCOul-
plished in an abstracted way, and seldom remains clearly in the normal
memory, belonging rather to the secondary memory of the hypnotic
state, of which state, indeed, the action is itself a fragmentary prolonga-
tion.I In Louise's case this went further, and the suggested actions
became absolutely a portion of the trance-life. She executed them
1 This applies to isolated suggestions. If a habitual course of action (as
diligence in study) or a habitual physical desire or aversion, (as appetite for
Digi
238 Automatic Writi'1l1}. [Jan. 28,
without, apparently, knowing what she W&8 doing. If, for instance, in
her waking state, she was told (in the tone which in her hypnotic state
signified command) to get up and walk about, she walked about, but,
to judge froID her convel'Sll.tion, she supposed herself to be still sitting
quiet. She would weep violently when commanded, but while she wept
she continued to talk as gaily and unconcernedly as if the tears
had been turned on by a stop-cock. One day M. Janet begged Louise,
in her waking state, to resist his next command. She said
that she was not aware that she had ever obeyed him, and would
certainly resist now. The command was given, and she executed it
unconsciously, while still protesting that she would certainly resist.
Here, then, was an indication of a new partition of the identity j -
not merely that partition which is habitually established between the
hypnotic trance and the waking state. For this new partition subsisted
equally in both states, and the dividing boundary was no obvious gulf,
but a line as imaginary as the Equator. For the line was merely this,-
that any suggestion uttered by M. Janet in a brusque tone of command
reached the unconscious self alone j any other remark reached the
subject--a.wake or somnambulic-in the ordinary way.
The next step was to test the intelligence of this hidden "slave of
the lamp," if I may so term it-this sub-conscious and indifferent
executor of all that it was bidden. How far was its attention alert 1
How far was it capable of reasoning and judgment 1 M. Janet began
with a simple experiment. "When I shall have clapped my hands
together 12 times," he said to the entranced subject before
awakening her, "you will go to sleep again" There was no sign that
the sleeper heard or understood j and when she was awakened the events
of the trance were blank to her, as usual. She began talking to other
persons. M. Janet, at sOlDe little distance, clapped his hands feebly
together five times. Seping that she did not seem to be attending to
him he went up to her and said, 'Did you hear what I did just
now 7" " No, what 1" "Do you hear this 1" and he clapped his
hands once more. "Yes, you clapped your hands." "How often 1"
"Once." M. Janet again withdrew, and now clapped his hands six
times gently, with pauses between the claps. Louise paid no apparent
a.ttention j but when the sixth clap of this second series-making the
12th altogether-was reached, she fell instantly into the trance again.
mea.t, distaste for spirits,) be hypnotically in8pireci, the habit may become"
second n~ture, and the only trace, perhap8, of the extraneous origin of the
impulse will be a tendency to sudden revel'!lion to the earlier characters. The
subject's state may then be compared to that of the ne~,.ro child taken from his
saVAge kin and reared in civilisation, who may still relapse into a barbarism im·
possihle to his white schoolfellow. In other words, hypnotic moraIisation is
par euellence education, not heredity. . . G I
Digitized by oog e
1887.] Automatic Writ·i.ng. 239
It seemed, then, that the" slave of the lamp" had counted the claps
through all, and had obeyed the order, much as a clock strikes after a
certain number of swings of the pendulum, however oft.en you stop it
between hour and hour. M. Janet varied the conditions; ordering that
the girl should fall aslepp when he should mention the same letter of
the alphabet twice in succession; or when the sum of the digits which
he mentioned should reach 10. The result showed that the "slave of
the lamp n could successfully attend and obey so long as the problem
was a simple one, but that when the problem became too complex,
confusion ensued.
These experiments, as M. Janet remarks, throw much light on the
mechanism of "deferred suggestion." Itseemsplain that when a command
is given which is to be executed at a distance of some months,we need not
supposethat the impulsion thus giver.. works itself outab80lutelywithout
further reinforcement. Rather it resembles a bill drawn on the
unconscious self at a certain date, but the unconscious self, watching the
efflux of time, prepares for its maturation.l
Thus far, however, the knowledge ga.ined as to the unconscious
element in Louise was not direct but inferential. The nature of the
commands which it could execute showed it to be capable of atteution
and memory; but there was no way of learning its own conception of
itself, if such existed. nor of determining its relation to other
phenomena of Louise's trance. And here it is that automatic writing
was successfully invoked; here we have, as I may say, the first-fruits
in France of the new attention directed to this seldom-trodden field. M.
Janet began by the following simple command: "When I clap my
ha.nds you will write Bunjour." This was done, in the usual loose and
scrawling script of automatisD1, and Louise, though fully awake, was
not aware that she had written anything at all.
This adit, then, was in the possession of the subterranean occupant
of the psychical citadel. As yet this occupant was nameless. It was
ordered to write a letter, which it did in a commonplace style, and
signed" Louise." But Louise was unconscious of the letter-writing,
and when the epistle was shown to her she pronounced it a forgery.
The unconscious hand was again bidden to write a letter ; it wrote
word for word the same letter as before, as if it were a musical-box
wound up to repeat a particular tune.
By means of a simple artifice, however, it was found possible to do
more than this. M. Janet simply ordered the entranced girl to write
answers to all questions of his after her awalcening. The command thul
given had a persistent etrect, and while the awakened Louise continued
to chatter as usual with other persons, her unconscious self wrote brief
I See on this and cognate points the inHtructive series of experiments inde-
pendently undertaken by Mr. Gurney, and recorded below, pp.290 anll.4ID9 et8W.
Digitized by GOOgle
~~~~~------------------------~~
240 [Jan. 28,
and scrawling responses to M. Janet's questions. This was the
moment at which in many cases a new aDd separate invading person-
ality is assumed j-and if Louise had believed in poSBeSSion by devils-
as so many similarly-constituted subjects in old times believed-we can
hardly doubt that the energy now writing through her hand would
have assumed the style and title of a "familiar spirit." Or if, again,
she had been a modern Spiritualist, it is probable that the signature
of some deceased friend would have appeared at the foot of these
communications. But here the "communicating intelligence" was of
so obviously artificial a kind that it could scarcely venture to pretend
to be either a devil or Louise's grandmother. A singular conversation
gave to this limited creation, this 8tatUto'T"J/ intelligence, an identity
sufficient for practical convenience. "Do you hear me 1" asked
Professor Janet. Answer (by writing), "No." "But in order to
answer one must head" "Certainly." "Then how do you manage 1"
"I don't know." "There must be somebody who hears me7" "Yes."
" Who is it 1" " Not Louise." " Oh, someone else t Shall we call
her Blanche 1" " Yes, Blanche." " Well then, Blanche, do you hear
me 1" " Yes." This name, however, had to be changed, for the
following reason :-The name Blanche happened to have very diu.gree-
able associations in Louise's mind; and when Louise was shown the
paper with the name Blanche which she had unconsciously written she
was angry, and wanted to tear it up. Another name had to be chosen.
"What name will you have 1" " No name." "You must--it will be
more convenient." "Well, then, Adrienne." Never, perhaps, has a
personality had less spontaneity about it.
Yet Adrienne was in some respects deeper clown than Louise. She
could get at the genesis of certain psychical manifestations of which
Louise experienced only the results. A striking instance of this was
afforded by the phenomena of the hystero-epileptic attacks to which
this patient was subject.
In cases of this sort it often happens that the patient's imagination
during the attack is excited by the reminiscence of some scene of terror
which perhaps first set on foot this nervous disturbance. On a smaller
scale this recurrence to a still dominant moment of past fear may be
familiar to some of my readers. I know a lady who was much
frightened in childhood by a large dog which sprang out on her j and
who still, in moments of alarm or agitation, seems to see the creature
spring at her again. Well, Louise's special terror, which recurred in
wild exclamation in her hysterical fits, was somehow connected with
hidden men. She could not, however, recollect the incident to which her
cries referred j she only knew that she had had a severe fright at seven
years old, and an illness in consequence. Now during these" crVu"
Louise (except, presumably, in the periods ~i9i\;Wffl.@~~ which
1887.] .A.utomatic Writing. 241
form a pretty constant elflment in such attacks) could hear what
Professor Janet said to her. Adrienne, on the contrary, was hard to
get at; could no longer obey orders, and if she wrote, wrote only, J'ai
p6U'I', j'ai P6'1111'.
M. Janet, however, waited till the attack was over, and then ques-
tioned Adrienne as to the true meaning of the agitated scene.
Adrienne was able to describe to him the terrifying incident in her
childish life which had originated the confused hallucinations which
recurred during the attack. She could not explain the recrudescence of
the hallucinations; but she knew what Louise saw and why she saw it :
nay, indeed, it was Adrienne rather than Louise to whom the halluci-
nations were directly visible.
The situation is a complex one. I will try and explain it by citing
a curious dream of my own; hoping that the petty personal details
which will be unavoidable may be excused by the singular parallelism
of the two cases.
I must first explain that I have long thought that we are too
indolent in rega.rd to our dreams; that we neglect precious occasions of
experiment for want of a little resolute direction of the will. I do
not only mean that we ought to try to remember our dreams, and to
analyse them, and that we may get strange hints, from the dream's
very grotesqueness, of subterranean processes going on within us. I
mean much more than this; namely, that we ought to accustom our-
selves to look on each dream, not only as a psychological observation,
but as an observation which may be transformed into an e:x:pm1TUJnt.
We should constantly represent to ourselves what points we should
like to notice and test in dream; and then when going to sleep we
should impress upon our minds that we are going to try an experiment;
-that we are going to carry into our dreams enough of our waking
self to tell 11S that they 011'6 dreams, and to prompt us to psychological
inquiry.
I need not say that, as dreamers, we are very unequally gifted by
na.ture. My own endowments are very poor; but by mere pains-
taking effort I have succeeded three times-on three nights only out
of nearly 3,OOO-in realising that I was dreaming, and in attempting
some scanty and hurried experimentation. The dream which I shall
cite was the most recent of these. As it was not written down
immediately on waking, it would not be evidence for any phenomenon
otherwise difficult to credit. But it will be seen that it is only a slight
idiosyncratic development of a class of dream which many of my readers
have probably shared; and its paltry commonplaceness may perhaps
avert the suspicion that it has been touched up for recital.
I was, I thollght, standing in my study; but I observed that the
furniture had not its usual distinctness--that everything was blurred
Digitized by G<lOgle
242 .Au,Wmatic WrUing. [J~. 28,
and somehow evaded a direct gaze. It struck me that this nlust be
because I was dreaming. This was a great delight to me, as giving the
opportunity of experimentation. I made a strong effort to keep calm,
knowing the risk of waking. I wanted most of all to see and speak to
somebody, to see whether they were like the real persons, and how
they behaved. I remembered that my wife and children were away at
the time (which was true), and I did not reason to the effect that they
might be present in a dream, though absent from home in reality. I
therefore wished to see one of the servants; but I was afraid to ring
the bell, lest the shock should wake me. I very cautiously walked
downs~fter calculating that I should be more sure to find some-
one in pantry or kitchen than in a workroom, where I first thought of
going. As I walked downstairs I looked carefully at the stair-carpet,
to see whether I could visualise better in dream than in waking life.
I found that this was not so; the drea.m-carpet was not like what I
knew it in truth to be; rather, it was a thin, ragged carpet, apparently
vaguely generalised from memories of seaside lodgings. I reached the
pantry door, and here again I had to stop and calm myself. The door
opened and a servant appeared,-quite unlike any of my own. This is
all I can say, for the excitement of perceiving that I had created a new
personage woke me with a shock. The dream was very clear in my
mind; I was thoroughly awake; I perceived its great interest to me, •
and I stamped it on my mind-I venture to say-almost exactly as I
tell it here.
It seems to me, then,-so far as any value can be attached to
the memory,-that there were here three layers of my personality
which present some analogy with three layers of Louise's per-
sonality, during (say) the apparently unconscious period of a hystero-
epileptic attack. In the first place, in each case the habitual every-day
personality was for the time in abeyance,-asleep, or hysterically <
distracted. In the second place, my dream-personality corresponded in a
certain way to Adrienne. Each of these had a knowledge of the
ordinary self, but apparently not a complete knowledge. Each was
a.pparently behind, but not co-extensive with, tht' ordinary identity;
was in one sense deeper tha.n that identity, yet existed only with
reference thereto, with no separate desires of its own. And in the third
place, there was in each instance a kind of psychical phantasmagoria
behind and beneath both identities; a background of scenf'ry which
seemed created by some organic necessity. In my case this consisted of
a mere commonpla.ce reproduction of every-day scenes; in Louise's
case it was the appalling resurgence of an ancient terror.
It was neither my waking self nor my conscious dream-self which
created the ragged stair-carpet, &C. And it was neither Louise's con-
sciousness nor Adrienne's consciousness which evolrM ..tNt horrifying
Digitized by"\:JOUe1e:
1887.] Automatic Writing. 243
picture of the men hidden in the garden. In each case the phantasmal
images arise from depths below either of the alternating consciousnesses.
Would it have been possible, one wonders, to have got deeper still ,
Could the girl's divided spirit have been raised into a state of lucidity
in which she could have discerned, as from aloof and from afar, at once
the phantasmagoric images gathering, and the helpless and hidden
Adrienne scrawling, "J'ai peur, j'ai peur," and Louise's body-
'/ToU-til" ollOjUirQIII fWfXPq ,ua-stretched in contortions on the ground' Con-
ditions such as this have in fact been described by mystical writers. It is
possible that there may be some reality in their accounts of successive
transitions-ofjourneyings inwards which werejourneyingsupwardstoo.
Butsuch writers, instead of endeavouring to attach their own case to
the ordinary lot, have too often tried to detach it thence. They have
forgotten that a man who claims to have climbed a virgin peak must
first explain to us the steps of his a.seant before he can expect us to
believe the extent of his prospect.
To return, however, to Louise and Adrienne. I have spoken of
Adrienne as being in a sense more deeply involved than Louise in the
hysterical attacks. But it must not be therefore supposed that Adrienne
represented a necessarily morbid aspect of the complex identity. And
the experiment showed that her plane of existence lay beneath some of
the superficial evils from which Louise suffered.
Louise, it will be remembered, was a hysterical patient, very seriously
amiss. One conspicuous symptom was an almost absolute defect of
sensibility whether to pain, to heat, or to contact, which persisted both
when she was awake and when entranced. There was, as already
mentioned, an entire defect of the muscular sense also, so that when her
eyes were shut she did not know the position of her limbs. Nevertheless,
it was ~emarked as an anomaly that when she was thrown into the
cataleptic state, not only did the movements impressed on her continue
to be made, but the corresponding or complementary movements, the
<lorresponding facial expression, followed just as they usua.lly follow in
such experiments. Thus, if M. Janet clenched her fist in the cataleptic
stage, her arm began to deal blows, and her face assumed a look of
anger. The suggestion given through the so-called muscular sense had
operated on a subject in whom the muscular sense, as tested in other
ways, had seemed to be wholly lacking. As soon as Adrienne could be
<lommunicated with it was possible to get somewhat nearer to a solution
of this puzzle. Louise was thrown into catalepsy; then M. Janet
clenched her. left hand (she began at once to strike out), put a pencil
in her right hand, and said, "Adrienne, what are you doing'" The
left hand continued to strike, and the face to bear the look of rage,
while the right hand wrote, "I am furious." "With whom'"
"With F." " Why 1" "I don't know, but I am very angry."
Digitized by ~81e
244 .Automatic Writing. [Jan. 2M,
M. Janet then unclenched the subject's left hand and put it gently to
her lips. It began to "blow kisses," and the face smiled. "Adrienne,
are you still angry'" " No, that's over." " And now 1" "Oh! I am
happy." " And Louise' " " She knows nothing, she is asleep."
Now, so far as I know, this is absolutely the first glimpse that has
yet been obtained into the subjective being of the subject in the
cataleptic state. We have thus far only been able to conjecture
whether there was or was not any psychical concomitant of the
cataleptic gestures of anger or satisfa.ction. "11 n'y a que Ie
cataleptique," say MM. Binet and Fere,l "qui merite Ie nom d'automate
. On a dit avec raison que Ie cataleptique n'a point une
personnalite alui, qu'll n'existe pas de moi cataleptique." Yet the key
of automatic writing has unlocked this closely-barred chamber, and has
shown us that the clenched fist, which strikes out at our suggestion as if
it were moved by a spring, does in fact imply a corresponding emotion
of anger, which (in Louise's case at least) is definite enough to select
its own object, although it cannot explain to us its own origin.
If even these actions prove to have been accompanied by a kind of
consciousness,-to be capable of entering into a kind of memory i-of
what actions can we ever venture to assert that they are absolutely
unconscious, absolutely unrememberable 1 Dr. Richer has observed
that the respiration of a cataleptized subject is not often strongly
affected by suggestions of terror, &c.,-is much less affected than in the
somnambulic state. (La Grantls Hy,tbie, pp. 680 sqq.) La reaction BUT
f2f;re imime, he says, 681 nulle au pr68que nulle i-but we have seen
that the 2tre imime and its feelings are by no mea.ns easy to come at.
The peculiar condition of Louise wllen awake adds a further
interest to this experiment. When awake, she suffered, as I have
explained, from a grave sensory disturbance,-an entire absence of the
so-called muscular sease. But here we find this new personality
possessed of that sense,-responding to muscular stimuli in a way
which showed normal sensibility. Adrienne's intelligence, indeed,
showed little verve or spontaneity; but she might claim that if she
were beneath the level of Louise's waking intellect she was-in another
sense-beneath the level of Louise's sensory disturbances as well:-
somewhat as deep-sea denizens are beneath not the sunlight only but
the storm. This was, in fact, a culminant example of the disappearance,
in hypnotic trance, of functional nervous derangements. The inabilities
which result from organic lesion subsist, of course, though they may
lose tbeir painful character; but the inabilities which, for want of &
better name, we call hysterical may any of them, in any phase of
hypnotism, change, diminish, or disappear.
1 Binet at F~re. Le Magmtne Animal, p. 105.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] .A'Utomatic Writi-ng. 245
And here I must repeat my protest,-a protest which the writings
of the school of the Sal~triere seem to me to render constantly
needful,-against the assumption that hypnotism itself, and itl!l
attendant phenomena., have of necessity anything morbid about them.
Hypnotism has grave incidental dangers of its own, and it is often
witnessed in high perfection on morbid subjects; but to call hypnotism
a nWr088 seems to me about as reasonable as to call the act of dreaming
a nevrose, or the habit of hard study.
Phenomena whose psychical side is 80 important as here must not be
considered from a clinical point of view alone,-as if their only upshot
could be to take a man into hospital, or to get him out of it. In this
case which we are at present studying,-as in Fetida X.'s case, in Dr.
·Dufay's case, &c.,-the secondary or induced state was in some respects
less morbid than the habitual state,-fres from the nervous troubles
which crippled the patient's waking life. Unless" morbid" is to
become a word as question-begging as the word " natural" long has
been, we must be as careful not to call these novel states morbid as we
should be not to describe these operations of Nature as unnatural.
In Louise's case indeed these odd manifestations were-as the
pure experimentalist might say--only too sanatiTe, only too rapidly
tending to normality. M. Janet accompanied his psychological
inquiries with therapeutic suggestion i-telling Adrienne not only to
go to sleep when he clapped his hands, or to answer his questions in
writing, but to cease having headaches, to cease having convulsive
attacks, to recover normal sensibility, and so on. Adrienne obeyed;
and even as she obeyed the rational command, her own Undine-like
identity vanished away. The day came when M. Janet called on
Adrienno,-and Louise laughed and asked him whom he was talking
to. Louise was now a healthy young woman; but Adrienne, who had
risen out of the Unconscious, had sunk into the Unconscious again,-
must I say 'l--for evermore.
Few lives 80 brief have taught 80 many lessons. For us who are
busied with automatic writing the main lesson is very clear. We have
here demonstrably what we can find in other cases only inferentially ..
- an intelligence manifesting itself continuously by written
answers, of purport quite outside the normal subject's conscious mind,
while yet that intelligence was but a part, a fraction, an aspect, of the
normal subject's own identity.
We must bear this ascertained fact-for it is as near to an
aRcertained fact as anything which this perplexing inquiry can bring
us-steadily in mind while we deal with future cases. And we must
remember that Adrienne,-wbile she was, if I may 80 say,the unconscioul!I
self reduced to its simplest expression,--did, nevertheless, manifest
certain differences from Louise, which, if slightly exaggerl\ted, might
Digitized by GOogIe
246 .Automatic WrUing. [Jan. 28,
have been very perplexing. Her handwriting was slightly diWerent,-
though only in the loose and scrawling character so frequent in
automatic script. Suppose the handwriting had been rather more
different t and had vaguely resembled that of some deceased member of
the family f It is easy to understand what inferences might have been
based on such a fact. Again, Adrienne remembered certain incidents
in Louise's childhood which Louise had wholly forgotten. These events
occurred at a grandmother's house. Suppose that the sentence recording
them had been signed with the grandmother'8 name, instead of with the
merely arbitrary name selected for the convenience of a cool observer 1
Here too, it is easy to imagine the confidence-in one sense the well-
grounded confidence--with which any knowledge on Louise's own part
of those long past events would have been disclaimed.
Once more ;-&nd this last suggestion points to positive, rather than
to negative, conclusions :-Adrienne possessed a faculty-the muscular
sense-of which Louise was devoid. I am anxious that this point
especially should be firmly grasped; for I wiSh the reader's mind to be
perfectly open as regards the relative faculties of the conscious and
of the unconscious self. In Mr. Newnham's case we have had the
unconscious self (as I interpret that story) superior to the conscious
self in faculty of one kind; here we find it superior in faculty of another
kind. It is plain that we must be on the watch for completion, for
evolution, as well as for partition, for dissolution, of the corporate
being.
Since the above words were written Professor Pierre Janet has
been kind enough to send me a manuscript account, which he allows
me here to translate and publish, of a.nother series of experiments,
analogous to the above, which he has tried upon Madame B., who has
been already introduced to readers af these Proceeding8 in my paper on
.. Telepathic Hypnotism" in Part X. I will translate the account
almost at full length ; for the experiments seem to me extremely signi-
ficant; and the very fact that the subject had neVE>r learnt to write
renders the series a most fitting introduction to the discussion of
automatic movement and gesture, which my next paper must
contain.
"After concluding my experiments," says Professor Janet, "on the
hypnotic sleep of the young woman whom I have called L., I resolved to
try whether I could obtain analogous phenomena with a very different
subject,-namely, with Madame B., the honest peasant-woman whom
you saw at Havre. I did not try for mental suggestion; I sought only
to discover whethEr ordinary suggestions worked themselves out for
Madame B. in the same manner as for L.
"It must be remembered that Madame B.'s trance is very different
from L.'s-far deeper and far more complex. With h the~ce was
Digitized by GOD01~
1887.] Automatic Writing. 247
induced by a single gesture; it continued for the most part unchanged,
and ended in a moment at my bidding. It was 'the lesser hypnotism,'
if you choose so to call it. Madame B.'s trance, on the other hand,
needed some minutes to become deep, and divided itself spontaneously
into a certain number of phases, which seemed to represent different
stages of profundity.l Her awakening was difficult and needed at
least ten minutes to effect. This was 'the greater hypnotism,' or
'magnetism,' if you choose so to call it. This difference between the
two forms of trance prevented me from repeating my experiments in
precisely the same way. As you know, I made the suggestions to L.
during the tr!\nce, and then woke her some time afterwards to see her
execute them in the waking state. I would then put her to sleep again
and make another suggestion,---sometimes entrancing and awakening her
ten times at one sitting. This could not be done with Madame B., who
when once asleep was unwilling to be awakened till some hours had
elapsed. I was obliged to make my experiments with her, not in her
waking but in her somnambulic state; and this fact led to soRle novel
details which may have interest for you.
"Among the various phases, elsewhere described, of Madame B.'s
trance, two alone were of importance for our present inquiry. The
first of these was the state of letltargic somnambulism, as I have termed
it, during which the sleep was profound, the muscles relaxed, the
subject motionless, speechless, and apparently deaf to my questions.
This state, however, was not a complete lethargy, for the characteristic
contractures produced in that stage of hypnotism by deep-seated
excitation of the muscles, could not be evoked. The second state here
necessary to describe was that which I have termed 'lucid som-
nambulism'; attaching no occult sense to the epithet, but using it
simply to signify that the subject's intelligence and freedom of action
seemed almost intact. In this stage the subject looked, listened, talked,
and acted with gay spontaneity, resembling a waking person in all
respects except two, that her eyes were shut and could not be opened
without inducing a change of state, and that the hypnotiser could
easily provoke contractures by lightly touching the skin.
"Let us consider the degree of susceptibility to suggestion existing
in each of these phases. If, during the second phase-that of lucid
somnambulism-I interrupt a conversation with Madame B. by
some sudden order, she hears me perfectly well, but does not obey. If
I insist, she laughs, asks me why I want her to raise her arms, or the
like, and simply refuses to do so. One may gradually persuade her to
obey by argument, but there is no real hypnotic suggestion. Occasion-
1 See" Lea phases intermeruaires de l'hypnotillme," llevtu Scientijiqm,
May 8th, 1886. Digi
248 Autorrw,tic Writing. [Jan. 28,
ally, indeed, by strong insistence for some minutes, one can provoke a
simple movement or a hallucination,-but more commonly the subject's
resistance is so strong that she will throw herself into a state of general
contracture rather than obey.
" During the phase of lethargic somnambulism, on the other hand,
suggestion was easy ; I had but to make the subject attend to me,
by holding her hand, touching her forehead, and giving the order
distinctly. The suggestion was not executed at once; for the
trance continued without apparent modification; but when the
subject woke up into the second state-that of lucid somnambulism-
she executed the order without ma.king any resistance. It thus seemed
that the somnambulic trance itself was composed of two phases-a
phase of waking and a phase of sleep. During its waking phase
suggestion was hardly possible; but suggestions made during its phase
of sleep realised themselves during its waking phase; just as post-
hypnotic suggestions realise themselves when the hypnotic trance
is over.
" The acts thus executed possessed this striking characteristic,-that
Madame B. was unaware of them at the moment when she was
performing them. If during the lethargic somnambulism I had ordered
her to walk, to move her arms or legs, &c., she did so in the lucid
somnambulism automatir.ally,-while she talked about something else.
If one drew her attention to the movement---as by asking her where her
arms were-she lowered the arms at once-as though to look at them
--and the movement ceased; but she retained no recollection of having
moved. Similarly if I had suggested a hallucination she saw it when
she woke into the lucid state, felt the pleasure or the fear which it was
calculated to inspire; and then, the hallucination over, recollected
nothing of it.
"Was there not here a kind of duplication of psychological phe-
nomena analogous to that which I had observed in L. 1 The following
experiments seem to point in that direction. During the lucid state,-
in which direct suggestion, as will be remembered, was impossible,-I
asked a friend to talk to Madame B. in such a way as wholly to distract
her attention from me. When her attention was completely held by
my friend I suddenly said, 'Faites un pied de nez.' (Spread your thumb
and fingers from your nose.) Her hands went up at once and the pied
de nez was executed,-Madame B. continuing her conversation mean-
time with unbroken vivacity. Without interrupting her, or addressing
myself to her directly, I added : 'When I have clapped my hands
five times you will rise and walk round the room.' I clapped my hands
twice and asked, 'Did you hear me 1'-taking her hand and obliging
her to listen. 'Why, you said nothing,' she replied, and turned away
to talk to my friend. I clapped my hands again three times, and
izedbyGoogle
188'1.] .Automatic Writilng. 249
Madame B. got up automatically and walked round the room, without
interrupting her conversation.1
"Madame B. has never learnt to write; which was unfortunate, as
otherwise I might have repeated the experiments on automatic writing
made with L. But I was able to procure something closely analogous.
Speaking to Madame B. in the same manner,-that is, so that she should
not directly listen to me,-I said, ' You will raise your hand to signify
Yes; you will shake it to signify No.' I thus managed to hold a
conversation with her--of course of a very simple kind-while she
talked eagerly with another person, and was quite unaware of the
second dialogue which her hand was carrying on all the time.
" Thus the suggestions which it was so difficult to effect during the
lucid somnambulism, while Madame B. was listening attentively,
became perfectly easy, and could be carried out in a complex manner,
while she was talking to another person and not listening to me. In
this case it was not her expectant attention, but the distraction of her
attention, which effected her compliance with the command.
" I could never succeed in getting these automatic acts to enter the
subject's consciousness in her lucid state. They seem quite separated
from herpersonality. But, through a chain of circamstances which need
not here be detailed, I succeeded in developing in the same subject a
new somnambulic condition, which can be induced by a long series of
passes made before her face. In this phase the face is pale, and the
limbs paralysed and insensible; but it differs from the lethargic
somnambulism already described, insomuch that in this new state the
subject hears and answers my questions, though she only hears me when
I actually touch her, and only answers in a low voice, after herself
repeating the question.
"The state is a curious one, and I hope some day to describe it
further. The point at present interesting is that I questioned her one
day in this new state as to the acts which she had just been accomplish-
ing automatically in the state of lucid somnambulism which had
preceded-acts of which the subject had never before, in any phase, mani-
fested the least recollection. Now, however, she recited these acts with
ease: t You made me rise; you made me take up an engraving,' &c.
And to this she added, ' Tl/.6 other one was talking while I got up from
my seat; she is so stupid that she knew nothing about it.' In short, this
new somnambulic phase had brought to light a new personality, which
J Obeerve that the point is that Madame B., in the lucid state, would obey
no order unless she had previously been told in the lethargic state that she
would obey it on waking into the lucid state. And, by a kind of parity of
impression, these new orders, so uttered &8 not to reach the lucid consciousness,
did in fact reach the specific personality of the lethargic state, underlying that
of the lucid state.-{F. W. H. M.l
Digitized by Coogle
250 ,Automatic Writing. [Jan. 28,
assumed as its own all the acts unconsciously performed during the
state of lucid somnalDbulism. Suggestions made in this new condition
were either acted out at once and consciously, or were acted out in
the state of lucid somnambulism, but automatically, and while Madame
B. talked of other things.
"I may add that Madame B. is susceptible of catalepsy, and
that the acts performed in the cataleptic condition have always
remained unconscious,-not entering :Madame B.'s memory at
any stage. But in the new state the new personality retained recollec-
tion of the acts performed in catalepsy, along with the automatic acts
of the lucid somna.mbulism. It seemed as though this newly-evoked
personality consisted of the synthesis of all the psychological phenomena
of which the primary personality was unconscious.
"It would seem, at any rate, that in Madame B., as in L., the
psychological phenomena were synthetised into two groups, which
groups produced two distinct conceptions of the self. One of these
selves,-the completer,-say Madame B., talked with me in lucid
somnambulism, and refused to obey my orders if she heard them witb
direct attention. The other self-let us call her Madame X.--obeyed
my orders at once, if they were given during Madame B.'s sleep, or
during her ludicity, if she was not attending to me. And by inducing
one special phase of profound trance I could cause Madame B. to
disappear altogether, and address myself to Madame X. alone, who
then retainoo the memory of the acts previously performed by hpr,
unknown to Madame B.
"Complicated though this description may seem, the reality was
more complex still. Remember that all which I have related took
place during various phases of somnambulism; and that outside all
this lay the true state of waking, after the trance had been wholly
dispelled. You know already that Madame B. when awake is by no
means the same person as Madame B. even in the lucid phase of her
somnambulism. You know that, when once awakened, she retains no
recollection of any act performed during somnambulism-whether by
Madame B. or Madame X. Her ordinary waking state is therefore
practically a tltird personality. And when you reflect that it is possible
to make either to Madame B. or to Madame X. post-hypnotic
suggestions which will be worked out in the waking state, you will
realise how strangely intermingled are the phenomena of the subject's
psychical life.
"We have here that dissociation of the phenomena of ConsciotumellB
which seems to me to be the essential fact of somnambulism, of
suggestion, of automatic writing, of hysteria itself, and of many other
nervous phenomena. But this purely psychical dissociation may be
pushed to a greater or less degree, and may fo~ tW~1 three, or
Digitized by ~OO(5 e
1887.] .Automatic Writing. 251
four groups according to circumstances,--()r even many more in
certain stages of dementia. In somnambulism this dissociation leads
to the existence of several degrees of unconscious action, of several
personalities encased, if I may so term it, the one in the other. The
knowledge of this fact may throw much light on many of these
apparently inexplicable phenomena."
I will conclude this series with a case which, though of a less
unusual type than the last, shows in a clear and striking way how
deeply post-hypnotic suggestion may modify the self-supposed personality
and, incidentally, the handwriting of the subject. I shall abbreviate
the case, but shall keep, as far as I can, the phraseology of the Com-
mandant de Roehas, to whom it is due.1
"Subject. Benoit; 18 years old; clerk in an office; intelligent and
healthy ; trained for some months to post-hypnotic suggestion.
"Suggestion. •Beginning with to-morrow, Thursday, you will come to
my house for three days running at 5.30. When you enter my room you will
believe that you are my son Henri; when you leave the house you will be
Benoit again.'
"Effect. On Thursday at 5.30 Benott arrives; he enters the house with-
out ringing, runs upstairs and sits down in my study in Henri's place, saying,
'I have just had a good long walk,' which is not true, since he has just come
from his office. 'With whom did you walk1 ' •With M.'-a friend of my son's
whom he barely knows-' he has lent me this book.' 'Have you seen
Benott l' 'No, not for three months.' 'Well, I shall try some experiments
on you then.' 'It will be no use, papa, you know that you can't do any-
thing with me.' I make him rigid, insensible to pain, &c., which surprises
him greatly. I read him the notes of my experiments with Benott; he
remembers some of them (those at which Henri was present), is sorry to have
missed others. I make him write a sentence, and his writing resembles my
son's (which is not the case with his normal writing), and this, although he
does not know my son's writing, or has only seen it long ago and by chance.
I then impose upon him various personalities and make him write in each
oase ; and thus obtain a series of handwritings differing one from the other."
This, it will be seen, is the important point for us. A handwriting
supposed to be unknown, or at least unfamiliar, to the subject, is
reproduced tolerably when the subject believes himself to be that
Henri whose script he presumably could not have imitated in the
normal state.2 A few more details will be of interest, as showing the
way in which the personality is kept up,-the evasive answers resorted
to when puzzling questions are proposed. Note, also, Benoit's ready
familiarity with the family circle of which he supposes himself to be a
member, which may remind us of the affectionate manners of certain
1 ReVile Philosophique, March, 1887, p. 330.
2 I have seen facsimiles of the writings, and have also, through M.
de Roehas' kindness, myseU witnessed similar experiments with BenoKa.t..Blp\4v
IzedbyuUUCS.l\....
J
252 .Automatic Writi1l{l. [Jan. 28,
"communicating spirits," which, nevertheless, are liable to sad blunders
as to their relationa' namt'S.
.. We pa8II into the adjoining room, where my family are aaaembled. He
sita down by the fire, talka with hill 'mamma,' with his sister, with hill little
brother, tutoyant them all. Seeing that I am standing, he jumps up and oft'en
me hill seat with, 'I beg yQur pardon, papa.'
" As BOOn as we have cl'OllBed the threshold of the house he becomes Benoit
again, calls me 'mon commandant,' and tella me that he has paued the
day at hill office desk.
" Next day Benoit comes in again without knocking, Bita down by the fire,
I and begins to read. I question him on hill studies of the day ; he becomes
confused, and answers that his head is stupid, and he cannot remember.
. . . . On Saturday at 5.30 I see Benoit from the window, runningba.re-
headed through the street; I go to meet him and find him in the vestibule,
puzzling himself as to what he can have done with hill hat. When he had
come in, he 88YS, and wanted to hang it up, he found it was not there.
"I take him out into the garden (where he becomes Benott again)and ask
him what he has done with his hat; he tella me that hill chief at the office had
tried to prevent him from leaving, and had hidden his hat to keep him, but
that he felt that I wanted him, and rail off without hill hat, so as not to be
late. We re·enter the house, and at once he begins to puzzle himself again
as to what on earth he has done with his hat.
.. We enter my study, and I show him the sentences which he
wrote the day before; ho has no recollection of them, and ill astonished
to find that he has become as good a subject as Benott. He ill iruwnaible
to pinches or pricks, but feels heat and cold. I try to destroy
the suggestion by placing my hand on hill head, 'en h~teronome'; the
only result which I obtain is to make him think of Benoit. I pa8II a voltaic
current through hill neck; the thought of Benott recurs more strongly; I tell
him that I was trying to make him think that he to(U Benoit. 'Oh, you
won't get quite as far as that I' he replies with a laugh. We go to dinner;
he had never 88t at my table before. He Bita down in an easy way ; I remark
that that ill not his usual place. ' True I what was I thiRking of Y' He
criticu.es the food and orders the servants about. Suddenly I put him to
sleep again, and 88Y, 'You are no longer Henri; you are Benoit; you will
remember tha~ you have beon dining here.' I wake him; he shakes his
head; opens his eyes wide; rilles timidly and confusedly, thanks me
and takes hill leave. "
This case, strange though it sounds, is but a well-d.eveloped speci-
men of the post.hypnotic suggestions which during these last few years
have been inspired in so many subjects, in more and more complex
forms. But it deserves to be remembered when we come to consider the
relative value of the various items-similarity of style, demeanour,
handwriting, knowledge, which go to make up the evidence that an
apparent personality is really what it assumes to be.l
1 I may add here another anecdote of Benott, which M. de Rochas has DO'
included in his book, but has sent to me, withpermi8iJie1l.. to.-JIll.blillh itin
Digitized by ~U0<S't::
1887.] .Amomatic Writing. 253
We have now made a survey-rapid, indeed, and imperfect-of a
-wide range of phenomena. Let us briefly realise what light they have
thrown on our primary problem-the origin of such messages as those
written by Mr. Schiller's hand. The first impression, as I have said,
of an automatic writer of such messages is generally that they proceed
from some intelligence external to himself. And apart from all dis-
cussion (which weare avowedly postponing) as to facts contained in the
messages and unknown to the writer, he will be likely to base this
presumption of externality on the following considerations.
1. He is in normal health, and there is no trace of morbid or
hysterical disturbance in his psychical being.
English. It is much to our pu~as showing hypnotic moralisation eft'ected
by the agency of recurrent dream. I slightly abridge M. de Rochas' account,
dated March 25th, 1887.
" Benoit is a young fellow 18 ye8l'll old, employed in the prefecture of
Loir et Cher. He is the son of an honest artisan family; but has bel'n some-
what led astray by foolish compaBions,-somewhat puft'ed up by the notice
taken of him in connection with my hypnotic experiments. His parents com-
plained to me that he had not been behaving well towards them, and asked me
to use my influence to modify his conduct. This was not easy, for Benott could
tell very well, by pinching himself, whether he was under the influence of a
suggestion,-and if he were so, he could dispel the nggestion by rubbing his
forehead.
" I had recourse, therefore, to a subterfuge. I put him to sleep by surprise,in
the middle of an ordinary conversation, and I then read to him the following
suggestion, which I had written down in order to give it without hesitation.
.. 'You will dream for three nights running that you are married, tbat you
have a grown-up son, that you and your wife have denied yourselves the
DeceIlII&ries of life in order to educate him. Now that this son-thanks to your
sacrifices-bas gained a certain little position, he thinks himself a great man,
never enters your house except for meals, and spends all he earns with good-
for-nothing friends. In your dream you will be greatly distressed at this; you
will try to remonstrate with him, but he will run oft' whenever you begin to
talk. When you wake you will remember your dream and will act accordingly.
You will not remember that I gave you this suggestion, and you will not be
able to remove it.' Having read t·his to Benott, I woke him by tbe word
• Wake! ' and continued the conversation as if nothing had bappened. Benott
was not aware that he had been sent to sleep.
.. Two days later he came to tell me that he was troubled by terrible night-
mares, which he begged me to remove. I asked him for details, and he narrated
to me part of the story which I bad inspired, passing lightly over tbe points
which most humiliated him. I pointed out to him tbat the story was somewhat
like his own ;-and tbat perhaps his nervous system, excited by hypnotism, was
giving a striking embodiment to the secret voice of conscience. If he acted as
the dream suggested, it would doubtless disappear ;-and, moreover, I would
now hypnotise him and suggest that his sleep should be tranquil. The dream
vanished, and from that day onwards-it is now two months ago-his conduct
has been entirely changed, and his parents are astounded at tbe improvement
whicb has taken place in him."
Digitized by Coogle
254 .Autom.atic WrUing. [Jan. 28,
2. The messages are connected with one another in a continuous
series.
3. They are written while he is conscious inthe usual way,-perhaps
talking on some quite different topic.
4. They are, themselves, entirely outside his consciousness. Neither
at the time nor afterwards is he aware of their origination.
On all these points the analogous cases which have been cited in
this paper may throw some illumination.
1. In the first place I have tried to show that automatism affords
no real presumption of the existence of any nwrbid action whatever.
My contention is that each case of apparent automatism should be
considered simply on its own merits, without being supposed to imply
either disease or inspiration.
2. Then again, the manifestation of a new c1taraceer, kept up
throughout a long series of these automatic writings, has been paralleled
by the cases given of the origir.ation of a new chain of memoriea--and
character is in great measure a function of memory-under very varied
circumstances of psychical commotion. The graphic automatist tells us
of insurgent qUABi-personalities,-not momentary, but of indefinite
persistence; not co-ordinate with his whole normal personality (as in
FeIida's case), but susceptible of considerable multiplication, as one new
" guide" or " control" is added to another, without appreciably dis-
turbing the ordinary current of life. But we have seen that this fissi-
parous multiplication of the self,-if I may so term it-is by no me&ns
so rare a phenomenon as has sometimes been supposed. We have seen
that something of a subordinate personality tends to be created within
us whenever a.ny set of recurrent ideas and sensations are sufficiently
isolated, by whatever cause, from the primary series with which we
are accustomed to associate our personal identity.
It is impossible to find any simile which will give an adequate
notion of the complexity which we must assume in processes like
these. Yet the view which I wish to present stands in great need of such
clearness as a concrete analogy, however imperfect, may give it. I
wish to show, then, how we may conceive that subordinate personalities
may manifest themselves from time to time, either coincidently with
the primary personality, or in its temporary abeyance, and may appear
to be (within certain limits) distinct from that primary personality,
while yet they are mere modifications in the functioning of the same
individual.
Let us compare the brain, then, to a musical-box, far more complex
than any musical-box actually existing. It contains thousan4s of
barrels, many of which are always going under any circumstances. The
sound made by any of the barrels can be easily muflled. My ordinary
waking life is represented by a tune played by barrel A. This tune is
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] .Automatic WTiti1l.fl. 255
always proceeding: when I sleep it is muffled; when I wake I catch it
up again. As life proceeds it becomes more and more elaborate.
Each fresh experience introduces variations, subsidiary barrels A', A",
&c. But the essential tune is so far the same that a competent ear can
detect its persistence through all my life,-can see that at forty years of
age my character is a development of my character at four. When I doze
or dream confusedly, this means that the barrels A, A', A", &c., are all
muffled, but that BOme of the pins are imperfectly mufHed, and give out
scattered musical phrases, not amounting to tunes. When my dreams
are distinct, that means that there are enough of these imperfectly
muffled pins to make a tune of their own. This tune will be poor and
incorrect; but the pins are BO disposed that certain harmonic combina.-
tions occur more readily than discords (this is the law of mental
association). and that any musical phrase which has once occurred tends
to repeat itself. Thus, in the slight link of memory between one dream
and another dream, I have a new tune B, composed from the musical
elements existing in A, A', &c., but independent of them. As soon
as the new tune B exists we must suppose that by BOme phonographic
process a new barrel is so impressed as to repeat tune B under favour-
able circumstances, and this in its turn becomes su~ject to variations
B',B", &c.
Next, suppose that I am hypnotised. The various degrees and states
of hypnotisation correspond to all kinds of muftlings and slowings of
the barrels A, A', &c., and even of the minor barrels a, a', a", &c.,
which form the sub-conscious substratum of A, A', (regulating vaso-
motor and circulatory phenomena, &c.). But I take here the special
case of a hypnotically-suggested personality. I am told (say) that I am
a schoolboy. The effect of this is a selective evocation of BOund from
all the pins which are ofa particular timbre,-many of them belonging,
say, to the variation-barrel of A", which I acquired at the schoolboy
period of life.
These pins produce a tune, so to say, of schoolboy quality ;--of more
purely schoolboy quality than any tune which I could have produced
without having the non-schoolboy pins muffled. But this schoolboy
tune will not have much substance; its effects will tend to recur, for
it has not at its disposal the complex mechanism of the great ban-els
A, A', &c.
That is to say, if I write a schoolboy story in my normal state I
have the advantage of my matured intelligence, which enables me to
introduce plot and variety; but I have the disadvantage of an adult
mode of looking at things which prevents me from really reproducing
the schoolboy aroma. If I am turned into a schoolboy by hypnotic
suggestion, I am more truly schoolboyish in talk and manner,-I perhaps
even enjoy a revival of schoolboy memories otherwise lost,-but] have
Digitized by Coogle
256 A'Utomatic Writing. [Jan. 28,
not the adult's resources of plot, &c., and soon begin to repeat my
schoolboy jokes and gestures over and over again.
Each time, however, that I am hypnotised into a schoolboy I
improve slightly in resource j for each tune wh~n once set going within
me tends, as already said, to imprint itself on a new barrel by some
phonographic process, and then to acquire variations.
We have seen, moreover, that not only hypnotism, but also alcoholic
and other narcotisms, epilepsy, and (we may of course add) some forms
of in811.nity evoke similarly subordinate or adventitious personalities.
Now what reason is there for supposing that these are the only
agents which thus detach a quasi-personality from the main current of
our life 1 There is no such reason j on the contrary, ana.logy may
naturally lead us to suppose that such disturbance may be idiopathic
!IS well as inciden.l. It is a.t any rate antecedently more probablt"
than not that there is a tendency during vigilance to all cerebral
processes to which there is a tendency during sleep. And just as it
seems to be what we call a chanctl- \.6., a point determined by obscure
and minor agencies-whether our dream-adventures persist into
waking memory-so also it may be a chance whether our waking
dreams--the subordinate quasi-personal operations which coincide with
our waking hours-do or do not manifest themselves in a way
perceptible to waking consciousness.
To write a thing down automatically and then to read it is much
the same as to dream a thing and then to remember it.
There would be nothing that need much surprise us were we to
learn that dreams of a considerable degree of consistence were habitu-
ally occurring within us,-and that the occasional power to write
automatically, like the occasional power to recollect a dream, did but
give us a glimpse into a constantly functioning complex of cerebration
which is habitually excluded from our primary mnemonic chain.
Our simile has led us into some remarks appropriate to the third
difficulty above mentioned i-the co-exiBtence, namely, of the unconscious
with the conscious waking life of the automatist, which seems
to differentiate his case from any of those where there is alternation
between normal vigilance and something like a recurrent dream. It
was partly to meet this difficulty that I brought forward the hypothesis
of the simultaneous, but separate, action of the two cerebral hemi-
spheres in cases like these. But waiving, for the sake of argument, any
such theory of dual cerebration, I think that the whole question of the
relation of consciousness to personality may now be met in a distincter
manner than was possible on metaphysical grounds alone.
We can no longer draw a broad line between the conscious and the
unconscious, and say that what a man is conscious of is part of his true
self, and that phenomena, however complex, which never enter into his
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Automatic Wriling. 25'7
consciousness, must be considered as lying outside his true identity. We
cannot say this, because the cases here cited (amongst others) have
shown us that it is quite impossible to predict what acts will ultimately
enter into a man's consciousness, and what will not. I use the phrase
" enter into his consciousness" in order lo imply that the mere fact of
being recollected-of entering into the" memory of evocation"-as
M. Richet has happily termed it--oonstitutes the only test of conscious-
ness which we can apply. The only way in which a man can prove to
ns that he was conscious of any act is by describing it afterwards. And
what acts he may be able, at some date or other, and in some condition
or other, to describe or to show recollection of, it is-as hypnotic
experiments teach us-a.bsolutely impossible to foretell.
We do not know how deep the "memory of fixation" goes; we
cannot determine, that is to say, the inferior limit, below which an
excitation is too feeble to leave an impress on our nervous system
capable of subsequent revival. We may, of course, say that it does not
seem likely that a man should ever be able to remember, for instance,
so purely vegetative an operation as the growth of his hair. But
observations during recovery from fainting,1 and under narcotics, shows
us that when the action of the hemispheres has been wholly or partially
in abeyance, we may find ourselves able to recollect nervous operations
lying-a.s it seems-beneath the threshold of anything that can be called
a sense of personality.
And if the limits of the memory of fixation are thus uncertain, equally
uncertain is the relation which the memory of evocation bears thereto
in each individual case. No man has ever evoked into recollection all
the evocable memories within him; no man can say what condition of 'l
life or death may suddenly open to him new chambers in his own past.
If we are to hazard a conjecture,the safest supposition would seem to be
that at least any cortical operation whatever which had taken place in a
man's brain was potentially memorable, whatever its originating
source; so that we might on this view expect that we should find
scattered instances where these automatic message_whose production
must have involved cortical centres-have, though at first reckoned
unconscious, ultimately become a part of the writer's conscious being.
I do not mean that he will then necessarily recognise them
as emanating from himself. On the contrary, it is quite possible
that he may then recognise, with strong subjective conviction at
least, ~hat they proceed from some intelligence other than his own.
My point is that the fact that he cannot get behind the messages-
cannot realise their inception to the same degree as he realises the
1 See especially Rerun's Lf!8 C01U1iti0n8 Phyail[Uf!8 de la Conacienu.
Geneva, 1886.
Digi
8
258 .Automatic WritVrig. [Jan. 28,
inception of his own habitual thoughts-is absolutely no proof that
they are not his own. If he dou get behind them, if he realises their
inception in what appears to him the same intuitive manner as when
he realises the inception of his own characteristic ideas, then, indeed,
I do not aay that his view of them will be certainly the right one-but it
will be an important element in their estimation. We shall be passing,
in short, from the problems of automatism to the problema of clairvoy-
ance and of ecstasy.
On discussions of this kind we cannot here enter. What has been
said may be enough to show that instead of merely asking, with
regard to a written mesaage or any other manifestation, " Was it
conscious or unconscious'" we must rather ask, with more precision:
To what extent was this intellectual operation included within the
series constituting normal memory' or to what extent did it form a
pan of any abnormal, or subsidiary, or intercurrent thread of memory!
or to what extent, finally, did it remain outside all phases of memory
which the subject at any time passed through t
The answer to this question will in each case be important, but will
not, taken by itself, be decisive as to the character of the message ;-
which must be judged far more by its contmt than by the subjective
aspect of its manifestation. Rather, RS it seems to me, the varying
circumstances, as regards immediate or postponed memory, under which
messages closely analogous to each other are given, may help to teach
us how much less radical a fact in our being our immediate consciou&-
~ ness forms than has often been supposed. Instead of treating our
normal stream of consciousness as necessarily representing our true self,
we shall rather be disposed to see in it a mere practical compromise, a
mere prudential result of evolution. I am conscious of certain thoughts
and not of other thoughts-not because the one set of thoughts is more
essentially mine than ~he other, but because it has 'been helpful to my
ancestors in the struggle for existence that consciousness should set
that way. It has been convenient that I should come to suppose
myself to be an intellectual agent of this particular kind, just as it has
been convenient that I should identify the inscrutable objects around
me by some staring distinction,-that I should recognise oranges as
yellow and grass as green.
Now we all know that when we get a little deeper we realise
the subjectivity of our senaations,-that the yellowness is in us rather
than in the orange; and the SUbjectivity of our ideation~ur thoughts
being conditioned by certain categories or limitations (as time and space)
which they cannot transcend. But I am here contending that we still
are accustomed to take ourselves too much for granted; that we have
no warrant for assuming that the" testimony of consciousness "-'ter
all our corrections and emendations-does. reall~ coverl the most
Digitized by ~008 e
1887.] .Automatic Writing. 259
important part of the psychical operations which are going on
within us.
How can we possibly tell whether it does so or not' To what
confirmation can we appeal1 All that we can say is, that we are
conscious of most of the thoughts which conspicuously influence our
voluntary movements. These movements are definitely known; they
may be watched and registered by others; and we can then say what
train of ideas seemed to us to prompt each movement. And this is all
that is needful to make us rational agents, capable of taking part in
the struggle for existence.
Bot we know that a great deal more than this is in fact going on
within us. Multitudes of involuntary movements, both peripheral and
internal-multitudes of spontaneously arising images, during both
sleep and waking-testify to cerebral activities of which we are never
consciously the originators.
All that we can say of these cerebral activities is that if it had been
of much practical use to our ancestors to be conscious of them,
they, and consequently we, would probably have become conscious of
them. In this respect we may compare them to certain forms of
sensibility which we perceive, in some rare examples, to be possible to
the human organism, but which have not, apparently, been valuable
enough to our ancestors to get themselves established among recognised
human faculties. Such sensibilities may sometimes correspond to
phenomena that are very important, sometimes to phenomena that are
very trivial. One man feels the approach of a thunderstorm, another
is sure that there is a cat under the sofa. The mere fact that neither
kind of susceptibility has risen into habitual generic faculty tells us
nothing whatever as to the abstract dignity or paltriness of its special
subject-matter. And similarly with these centrally.initiated activities
which we are now discussing. The cerebral-psychical operations of
which we are unconscious may be as trifling as the fact of the presence
or absence of a cat. Or they may be as important as the whole theory
of electricity. We cannot tell beforehand; and we need experiments of
the kind which I have been describing and advocating in order to enable
us to find out. We need, in short, to apply to the very central fact of
our self-consciousness the same analysis which we have applied
with more or less success to almost every other .. dictum of con-
sciousness." To find out what we are we must not trust to what we
seem to ourselves to be; we must resort to scientific artifice, to
mechanical registration, to tortuous experiment.
And if, as I believe, tekpatlvg is one of the facts within us
which it has been left for artifice and experiment-rather than for
common experience-to establish as truly existent, then assuredly the
harvest is already a rich one.
Digitized by ~81e
260 .A1.£tomatic Writi'nfJ. [Jan. 28,
And here, in conclusion, I may fitly call attention to what seems to
me a preva.lent fa.lla.cy connected with this c1a.ss of observations. It
has been a.ssumed-by some with indi1ference, by others with horror-
that this view of our personality a.s a complex, a shifting thing,_
unity upbuilt from multiplicity,-an empire aggregated from the fusion
of dispa.ra.te na.tionalities,-must bring with it also a presumption
that there is nothing in us beyond this ever-ehanging identity, whose
continua.nce depends but on links of perishable memory, on organic
syntheses which an accident may distort or decompose.
I do not myself think that this analysis of our terrene personality
-pushed even a.s I am pushing it n;)w-does in reality introduce any
additiona.l difficulty whatever into the hypothesis of a transcendental
Self behind the phenomena ;~f what we call a human soul. The
difficulties are now made more glaringly visible; but they existed for
any reasona.ble mind already. No one, surely, supposed that the soul
wa.s coincidmt with the psychical manifestation known to us, Noone
doubted that it .wa.s expressed more fully at some moments than at
others, in manhood rather than in infancy, in waking rather than in
sleep, in sane life rather than in dementia or in delirium t On any
hypothesis the soul is conceived a.s working through the body; and
therefore a.s necessarily finding in the body an instrument of constantly
varying responsiveness and power. All that is offered here is but a
dewlopment of this admitted thesis-a further analysis of the machinery
which must in any ca.se be needed to bring transcendental operations
within the purview of sense. If an immortal soul there be within us,
'" she must be able to dispense with part of the brain's help while the
brain is living, a.s with the whole of its help when it is dead. If the
soul exist, she muat exist (if I may so say) ipsa suY pollens opibus,
nihil indiga 7&08tri,' not needing that our dim consciousness should
place her unbrokenly in evidence, or demonstrate by any terrene
continuity an existence more abiding than that of earth.
The true lesson, as it seems to me, which these new speculations
teach us, is of a more hopeful though of a vaguer kind. It is simply
that we are still groping among the rudiments of a true knowledge of
our psychical being. From whence it follows that at least no great ques-
tion as to our na.ture or our destiny has as yet been even approximately
decided in a sense contrary to the highest hopes of men. So far from
our living, as some would tell us, in an age which has had to relinquish
all hope of deeper knowledge, further light, upon the chief concerns of
man, we are living in an age when fruitful methods of experiment are
just becoming possible; when we have just learnt enough of ea.sier
problems to begin to interpret the faint indications which throw light
on the highest problems of all.
I do not wish to exaggerate the importance of--the speflial class of
Digitized by GOog1
e
1887.] Automatic WritVng. 261
experiment which I am advocating here. Automatic writing is not a
key to all the recesses of our being. But it is a key to lfYTMehing, and
it is a key that will actually turn in the lock. Automatic messages
will come, if persistently tried for; they can be analysed; the result
of the analysis must in any case be instructive, and may point towards
conclusions of even startling magnitude. Again I must appeal for
fresh experiment, for fresh observation. I do not, of course, venture
to demand that experimenters, who may think me a mistaken
interpreter, should send their results to me personally; though I can
promise to study with the utmost care any records that may reach me.
But if there are those who believe that these messages do demonstrably
come from some intelligence exterior to themselves, and especially from
the intelligence of some departed friend, then I would urge them to
give, in some fashion or other, their reason for the faith that is in
them-to set before the 'World, if they can, some further well-attested
instances which point towards so momentous a conclusion. Let them
not spare their utmost pains in such a cause as this. "aAc\" 'Yap .,.c\ lOAo"
leal q~?7I'lr ~. Worthy is that effort and great would be that hope.
Digitized by Coogle
