{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sharron_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sharron T Probable NDE 7451","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sharron T Probable NDE 7451  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sharron T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3800 Sharron T Probable NDE 7451  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					March 10, 2014, I was taken to Good Samaritan Hospital by my husband because I was very sick.  I had somehow been exposed to a bacterial pneumonia, which had dumped its toxins into my bloodstream.  I was put on life support and had nurses at my bedside constantly, because the alarms kept going off due to my oxygen intake being too low.  

I don't remember any of this, but what I do vividly remember is being in a very special place. There was no tunnel or bright light; instead, a very creamy white/yellow light, like very early morning, was everywhere. The colors were so vivid and the layers of everything went much deeper than our typical 3D: it was more like 30x30D. It was so beautiful and calming that I knew I wanted to be here forever.  There were people and animals as far as I could see.  

I could only see the head and shoulders of the people, but there were thousands and thousands of them and I realized I knew every one of them.  On my right, with peripheral vision, I saw my younger brother who had passed in 2001.  Behind me, also to my right, was my husband's father, who had also passed in November 1998.  He touched my shoulders, turned me around, and said, ‘Clay deserves to be happy; you both deserve to be happy. So you have to go back now.’  Then he turned me around and gave me a gentle push. 

I remember the love and compassion. The first thing I remember was the respiratory nurse telling me to cough so he could remove the tube in my throat.  I am still dazzled by what I had experienced. While I am not ready to die, I no longer fear the ending, because I know.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 16, 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was on life support due to bacterial pneumonia dumping toxins into my bloodstream.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Everything was so beautiful: the colors were so much more, the people and animals; my awareness of knowing every person and animal and that we ARE all one.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire visit was so vivid and I still can see it in my memory.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Typical vision 3D

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I wasn't aware of hearing anything until my father-in-law spoke.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Family members, pets that had passed

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It’s hard to describe: people and animals in a beautiful place, creamy white/yellow light everywhere.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, love, compassion

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My belief is knowing family will be there to greet me.  I did not truly mentally grasp that we are all one

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   If it was Jesus, he took the form of my father-in-law

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are all connected spiritually with one another, including animals

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     People & animals were alive, everyone was spiritually connected

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I SAW love, very hard to describe, more than an emotion

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I experience a deeper meaning of life/love that I didn't before this experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I so much more value my loved ones, and tell them I love them.  I realized I had been given a beautiful experience and that each person who has entered my life has blessed ME.  I want them to know how much I love them.  It is the same with friends.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with family, March 17th, and not really aware if they believed me or not.  It was a beautiful experience and I wanted to share it with them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is most noticeable when I lose myself in colors, especially in my flower garden.  The layers of colors become more and more beautiful, and I can watch for hours.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is real. I don't know how to express, other than to tell you to just wait until you go there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Colors are so much more vivid.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It has given me the opportunity to appreciate life, all life.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sharron_t_probable_nde.html