{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shawn_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Shawn C NDE 7719","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shawn C NDE 7719  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shawn C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3971 Shawn C NDE 7719  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This lesson took almost a life time to learn. When I was 12 yrs old, I watched as my father got killed in a horrible accident. He was not quite dead when I got to him. I grabbed his arm and tried to pull him free, but it was futile. As I was holding his arm we made eye contact and his last words were, 'I love you.' My other brothers were not at home at the time, it was just me. This was very traumatic, to say the least. After the initial loss, I became increasingly angry at God, angry as to why he let a 12 year old see such a sight. I can never forget something like that.  I spent the next 38 years of my life doing my own will. I was not a bad person, but I always felt betrayed. One day, I was sitting at a red light when this blinding light came right through the windshield.  A voice started talking to me.  He said, 'I was giving you the chance to say good bye and to say l love you, something your brothers never had the chance to do.' Immediately I felt the anger I had inside disappear and I understood exactly what he was saying. I will never question him again.

I don't know if these two things have a common thread, but I would welcome any input. My NDE happened about six months after the car  incident. 

My NDE

I don't know how long I was lying there, but my wife found me in the backyard.  My skin-tone was gray in color and my lips were purple. She tried to revive me, but was unable to so. She called 911.  After about 10 to 15 minutes they arrived and hooked me up to the monitor.  They only showed flat lines. The hit me about five or six times with electric paddles, but nothing. They told my wife that I did not make it. Just as they were ready to pull the electric leads off of me, there was one beep.  They watched as it went across the screen.  Seconds later, there was one more beep. 

Prior to that time, I had been floating through total darkness with the feeling of indescribable love all around me. I finally came face to face with God.  He looked into my eyes.  I could tell that he knew everything I had ever done, things I was thinking at that moment, and things I would say or do in the future. You can't lie to God. He was very pleasant and said two things to me. He spoke telepathically from his eyes to mine. He said, 'I'm not ready for you yet.  There are things I want you to do first.' Then I came back to consciousness. 

The doctors at the local hospital could not help, so they flew me to Allegheny General in Pittsburgh. I quit breathing in the helicopter on the way to hospital.  I was dead on arrival.  They were able to bring me back again. They told my family that without oxygen for so long, I would probably have severe brain damage.  They also said that I had a stroke. I awoke the next morning feeling good. I was visited by a team of cardiologists.  They showed me a monitor where they were watching my heart.  The bottom third of my heart was shriveled up, blackish in color, and was not functioning at all. They said that they would have to do exploratory open-heart surgery the next morning to see if they could to fix it. I said ok and was completely calm when they told me.  Anyone facing that would be a little bit nervous, but I wasn't. As I slept that night, I felt the presence of God come and reach into my chest. I awoke to see a team of cardiologists staring at the monitor, and they were bewildered.  My heart was beating perfectly and was no longer shriveled up, nor discolored. They went over to a corner and quietly discussed what had happened. They said to me that they had no explanation. Although the word 'Miracle' was not used I'm sure that it had to cross their minds.

What am I going to do with my life? I'm still not sure, but I do know that God is still in touch with me and steering me in a direction of which I am uncertain. He has shown me signs, but they seem a bit cryptic at this point

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6-12-2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt like I was using all of my brain.  It was firing all at once.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the presence of God

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was surreal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing during the event

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was totally black, but warm with love

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Overwhelming love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Select

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Be kind to all others and help people understand

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered God

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God talked to me telepathicly

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     God told me

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Describing the face of God and the love I felt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     When I shake hands with someone, I can see their past.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Meeting God

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family was witness to my NDE.  They were influenced greatly.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The miracle in the hospital

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again, the Miracle in the hospital. The use of my hands to know peoples' past.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shawn_c_nde.html