{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sharon_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sharon W Probable NDE 22048","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sharon W Probable NDE 22048  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sharon W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1923 Sharon W Probable NDE 22048  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience actually began approximately six years ago in the bathroom in my mom's bedroom.  I had caught a cold and experienced a coughing spell. Well, to my horror something in my throat seized up to the point where I couldn't breathe. It was so horrible that I scratched my face in panic. What must have been a few seconds felt like an eternity of pure hell. Now I am sure I know an aspect of hell. My lungs ached as if they were empty but the worst was my mind trying to comprehend no oxygen.  My mom saw me and pleaded with me to not to panic as she called 911.  Her words penetrated my mind and suddenly I was released. 

The paramedics measured the air in my lungs and said that they were returning to normal.  Come to find out, the surgery I had had on my neck that was done through the front of my throat had left scar tissue in my throat. There was this one spot that was very sensitive and would swell so big that it would close my airway.  Well a few more times it happened, but it was never as terrorizing as that first time. Yeah I couldn't breathe, but I didn't have the hell related horror.  And shortly after the last time I felt Jesus speak to my heart with instructions to handle the situation. I was told to hunch my shoulders the next time I choked and so I did. Each time after it was so much easier for me. So that's what I did for a while until that night.

My brother and I were sitting at the kitchen table I was eating some hamburger and gravy and talking to my brother.  Well some residue of the food found the sensitive area in my throat and here we go again, my throat sealed up, no air. My brother knew what was happening but he thought that a piece of hamburger was lodged in my throat.  He saw me try to take breaths twice and could get no air. He started panicking and beating on me.  Well it took me one more attempt at trying to get a breath with no luck to realize that something was drastically different this time.  I was not breathing in the natural sense, yet wondering why my brother was in a panic. By my fourth attempt at breathing with no success, I realized I might not be breathing in the natural way but in my mind I had enough air for everybody and it was wonderful.  It was the complete opposite of the first time; it was like taking a walk through heaven, I had no worries except my brother beating me up in his attempt to save me. Suddenly the choking stopped and I was completely ecstatic, but I could never really explain all that I felt, I really felt Jesus was breathing for me. I was never aware of any discomfort. Maybe this was God's way of putting my mind at ease concerning the murder victims.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 20, 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Allergic reaction    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Could not breathe  I'm not sure if this is in line with what you're asking. What had been on my mind after the first time I couldn't breathe was a case I had seen on TV where a mom and her two teenage daughters were bound by their hands and their mouths and noses were bound so they could not breathe and they were on a boat and thrown overboard.  After knowing what it was like not to breathe, I was terribly haunted by that case and I would periodically cry out to God to please explain to me and comfort me as to the fact that they didn't suffer like I did, for certainly it would have been longer than what I had experienced.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like I could see all this air in my head.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully aware I wasn't able to breathe but did not experience any discomfort from not being able to breathe.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was definitely in two places at the same time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I remember waiting to fight for breaths, then realizing how calm I felt, and then pure freedom.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It made me more acute to the fact that things happen to you but not alone for you. There's always layers of revelations.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I could not get a breath in four separate and very deliberate tries. But I was completely calm as I realized my head was full of pure air. It was like someone was breathing for me, I was on the verge of unspeakable joy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No worst part. The best part the closeness imparted unto me from God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people can't connect with the event, but my niece was the one who said unto me that it sounded like I had an out of body experience and it made sense.  One young lady felt that I was blessed of the Lord when I spoke of my experience along with a few other experiences that were not easily explained.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was a confirmation of all the times the Lord protected me. From the time, I was a newborn baby and someone spoke the words, ‘she did not come here to stay.’  At eight months, the doctors gave up on my life. To that time, I lived alone.  I was awoken by a hand on my shoulder and all I felt was wonder and protection from a God I didn't acknowledge at that time, to the time a man I had never met told me I was full of grace and like that he was gone, to the ball of fire I saw in my belly with my spiritual eyes.  The breathing experience shows me God is telling me He is always my Help.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sharon_w_probable_nde.html