{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sharon_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sharon M NDEs 8247","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sharon M NDEs 8247  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sharon M NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  						4315 Sharon M NDEs 8247  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

A Song in the Wind&nbsp; &nbsp; 						  					  				      Click here for more information. 



                    On December 17,2017 at 8:45 am, I had my 4th Near Death Experience. I had been hospitalized for having had a seizure the day before and was on a 24 hour observation.  On the morning of the 17th, I had had an adverse reaction to some seizure medication and had stopped breathing.   Before anyone had been alerted of my situation, I had fallen asleep in my hospital bed when I felt my spirit rise up out of my body. I went up through the ceiling, past the roof, into the sky and up into the vast dark universe. I was wrapped or cocooned within what felt like a warm, soft, thick black velvet blanket. I could see myself within this cozy wrap as well as outside of myself and I felt so warm ,safe ,protected and deeply loved. There was a presence with me , in me , all around me yet, I couldn’t see with my visual eyes who this presence was. Even though I couldn’t see, I knew that God was with me .  I felt no fear or worry as I was curled in a fetal position within this velvet encasement.  It felt as if I was a baby again in my mother’s womb. As I hung there suspended, not moving up, down or sideways, I could see brilliant stars and planets all around me. There was a slight feeling of curiosity and amusement at the twinkling stars but I realized that I felt more comfortable inside the thick, velvety blanket that surrounded me. I had no sense of time, I was there for what seemed like eternity. As I hung there suspended among the stars, it felt as though I was waiting, but for what, I do not know. It was quiet, calm, peaceful and the black velvet was so soft and warm. Then suddenly, It felt like a vacuum was sucking me down, pulling me down, down, back into my body.   

  Then, I could hear a lot of noise and as I opened my eyes, the lights in the room were so bright that my eyes hurt. There were so many people in my room, calling my name and talking that I thought my ears would explode, the pain was horrendous. I was so confused. I had no idea what had just happened. The doctor stood by my bed, while several nurses milled around the room and then I saw my husband, who looked so terrified, standing over by the door. I had several IVs in my arms and a non breather oxygen mask on my face. The nurses stayed by my side for quite a while to monitor my breathing. It wasn’t until later that I was told how serious it had gotten. I had died from something called Acute Respiratory Acidosis or hypoventilation.  

  Every experience is different and this experience was certainly different from from any of the other experiences I’ve had before. Although I’m still trying to make sense out of all of it and to integrate it into my life, I have come to a few conclusions, I feel in my soul, that because I have had a fear of the void, God was showing me that the void was not a place to be feared. He was that loving presence that was with me, in me , all around me. God was holding me. Also I have been struggling lately with depression because of health issues, family issues and feeling horribly overwhelmed, I feel deeply in my soul that I was put in this loving, holding place to allow my soul to rest. I knew I had a decision to make about whether to stay or go and if God didn’t just hold me for a while, I would have made a hasty decision.                    

It was November 3, 2016. I had spent several hours in the hospital emergency room in excruciating pain and nausea due to a bowel obstruction caused from adhesions strangling the small intestine.  After several tests, the surgeon scheduled emergency surgery to be done immediately. Within the hour, I was in the operating room. 

  				  During the surgery, my soul left my body and floated above the operating table.  I could see the doctors and nurses working over me. This lasted what seemed like only a matter of a minue or two. All of a sudden, I was surrounded by a beautiful rainbow-colored light. I began to feel as though I was moving very rapidly through this light. Then, I found myself standing in Heaven. I recognized Heaven because I saw everything from having been there in a previous NDE.

   				  Only this time, I was standing next to the golden wall that surrounded the glorious city. The wall was extremely high, very solid and made of the purest gold. I felt such a sense of pure love and peace which completely filled every pour in my body.There was a feeling of pure bliss.  I felt a sense of complete awe as I stood there, only feet from the entrance to the city. I could hear what sounded like a celebration or party going on just beyond the city walls.  The air was pure and clean, crisp and sweet. It was  filled with the fragrance of wildflowers that danced in the warm silken breeze that touched my skin. The colors were rich and vibrant. The sky was of the bluest blue and reminded me of a gorgeous spring day. There was a beautiful light that lit up the sky. The light was as brilliant as the sun. Yet, there was no sun in the sky and the Light illuminated everything, giving off a beautiful golden glow. I knew that the light came from the heart of God. As I stood next to the golden wall, I saw a magnificent, lush green meadow filled with wildflowers of every color. The wildflowers were colored in rich vibrant pinks, purples, yellows, reds, violets and blues. They  dotted the field in front of me that stretched from the garden, where I had been in my previous near death experience. This was  toward the city and where I now stood. 

   				  I saw an old fieldstone wall with pink roses growing up and over the wall which stood halfway between the garden and the golden city. As I stood there next to the magnificent golden wall, a tiny brown and white beagle puppy wiggled at my feet demanding my attention. As I leaned down to pet him, he barked and wiggled all over with such joy while allowing me to rub his soft little puppy belly. As I continued to rub his tummy and play with him, I looked up and saw hundreds of people pouring out of the beautiful garden and begin walking through the tall grass and wildflowers of the meadow. Each person that I saw had an angel walking with them. The angels were taller, dressed in light blue and white colored robes and they were much more illuminated than the people. The people walking with their angels were laughing and talking among themselves happily. 

  				  As I stood there, I could clearly hear everyone's conversations.  There were people from all walks of life, men, women, and children of all races and all ages. As the people passed me and began entering the city, two men walked into my view. The younger of the two, I had recognized immediately from pictures that I had seen. These pictures  belonged to his mother who had been a friend of mine. He had died some years before. This younger man was accompanying an older gentleman who I had recognized as his father. As the two men passed by me, I smiled at them and said 'I know you.' They both smiled at me and continued walking toward the entrance to the glorious city.  I have no idea how long this procession took place as time seemed to no longer exist. Standing there, Divine love seemed to fill every pour in my body.   I was given infused knowledge that I had to come back, that it wasn’t my time yet, and I was to let this man’s wife know that he and his son were together and that he was o.k. 

                    I saw a beautiful building made of the finest alabaster with columns and archways. The floor was marble and polished to a glass like shine. There were two huge ornate doors one at the front and one at the rear of the building. An angel stood at each door and each one held keys. No one could enter unless the angels allowed you entry by unlocking the door using these special keys. The angels wore ivory robes with gold sashes going from one shoulder to their waist. I was permitted inside the door and once inside I saw that there was nothing inside this huge room but a large podium and sitting on this grand stand was a huge golden book.  As I walked up to the stand and looked at the book, the book itself was made of the purest gold and seemed to illuminate the entire room with a golden glow. The paper inside was made of a material I had never seen before. It was not ordinary paper but rather, more of a tightly woven cloth.  The book was a living book, it seemed to have life pouring from every fiber of its being. The book was open but to whose page I do not know. The writing was in gold and it was in a language I had never seen before. It looked to be some kind of symbols , some kind of ancient script. The Angel who gave me entrance was with me , still holding his key but did not speak. He just stared ahead keeping watch as I searched for the meaning of the ancient words written down before me. Since there were no answers forthcoming, the only thing I could conclude was the book was not opened to the page of my life therefore I could not read the words.   

  When it was time for me to leave, the Angel escorted me from the holy room and out into the courtyard of the building. He said only a few words " to read from the Book of Life is a gift. "  the angel then took his leave, returning to his post at the entrance door. 

    At the time, I was infused by this divine knowledge that using pendulums, and computer programs and cards is not how you properly read the holy book. You have to read it from the heart.

  				  Upon entering my body, I awoke still hooked to several machines with the nurse standing next to my bedside. Later that day, when I was well enough to be taken to my room, I had received a message from another friend. She told me  that the woman whose son had passed some time ago, had lost her husband that day while I was in surgery. I was not surprised as those were the two men I had seen while standing at the golden wall that day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 3,2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function).   Emergency surgery with a bowel obstruction

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.  Everything was much more heightened

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       once I passed through the rainbow light and stood next to the Golden wall of the City in Heaven

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Everything seemed to happen so fast on one hand and on the other, time slowed down

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were more vibrant, more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There were hundreds of people pouring out of the garden and walking toward the city.  I could hear each person's conversations as well as I could hear various activities taking place within the city walls.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out. Two confirmations came from this NDE, both of which I had no knowledge of   prior to my experience and both were checked out and confirmed.  I wasn't sure about the puppy until I told my daughter about my experience. She began telling me about how they had called the police on a neighbor because he was beating a beagle puppy to death. I was absolutely stunned when she told me this. This was the puppy from my NDE. So if there was ever any question as to whether our pets go to Heaven, they most certainly do! I'm so happy to say. When I told my friend about her son and husband being together she was grateful and thankful. It was helpful in her grieving.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     it seemed to be made of a rainbow colored light

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes.     As the people passed me and began entering the city, two men walked into my view. The younger of the two, I had recognized immediately from pictures that I had seen. These pictures belonged to his mother who had been a friend of mine. He had died some years before. This younger man was accompanying an older gentleman who I had recognized as his father. As the two men passed by me, I smiled at them and said 'I know you.' They both smiled at me and continued walking toward the entrance to the glorious city. I have no idea how long this procession took place as time seemed to no longer exist. Standing there, Divine love seemed to fill every pour in my body. I was given infused knowledge that I had to come back, that it wasn’t my time yet, and I was to let this man’s wife know that he and his son were together and that he was o.k.     Upon entering my body, I awoke still hooked to several machines with the nurse standing next to my bedside. Later that day, when I was well enough to be taken to my room, I had received a message from another friend. She told me that the woman whose son had passed some time ago, had lost her husband that day while I was in surgery. I was not surprised as those were the two men I had seen while standing at the golden wall that day.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was something that resembled the sun but clearly wasn't. The light was coming from the heart of God as everything in Heaven is illuminated by God's light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I was standing at a huge, pure golden wall that surrounded a golden city. There were many buildings inside the city walls with a large building in the center with a golden dome. Outside the city, there was a beautiful garden with gorgeous flowers of rich vibrant colors.  They were in between the garden and the city was a lush green meadow filled with wildflowers

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was in complete and total awe. I felt such Divine love and joy beyond words and incredible peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     once again I was given Infused divine knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I couldn't go beyond the golden wall that surrounded the city of Heaven

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic.   I am Catholic more spiritual than religious

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I saw hundreds of angels walking from the garden toward the golden city

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     we are all connected

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was infused with divine knowledge God does exist

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Divine love seemed to fill every pour in my body.  I was given infused knowledge that I had to come back, that it wasn’t my time yet and I was to let this man’s wife know that he and his son were together and that he was ok.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes     the young man who had passed away some time ago as a young teenager was there to greet his father. He had grown and matured since his passing. He looked to be in his 20's.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes, some of my relationships have changed.  
  
After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes.   It has taken 4 months for me to just to be able to verbalize and begin to integrate what happened that day.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I still have the same gifts that I had previously, they are just more heightened

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   this experience is my third near death experience. No, my knowledge of near death experiences did not affect my experience other than to make it easier to understand what had happened once I returned to my body.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.  At first, I was in shock that it had happened again. I needed time to adjust. I knew that I had died and gone back to Heaven but I couldn't even put the experience into words.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.  It has been a little over 4 months now so I've had some time to adjust to having had another experience

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         </h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sharon_m_probable_nde.html