{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sharon_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Sharon B NDE3670","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sharon B NDE3670  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sharon B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1673 Sharon B NDE 3670  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have died three times, all of them were the most wonderful experiences and all were about the same kind of experiences. I will explain one of them.

I remember seeing beautiful pink and golden clouds with crystal blue sky beneath them it was like the rays of the sun were coming out from them and I was wrapped within them and I felt so safe and so secure and such incredible peace like I have never felt before. Below me, there was a beautiful garden with flowers of every color and a stream running through it. I heard gorgeous music that was so soothing it was like being rocked and cared for like I was a little child again. God was with me, I felt Him so deeply - He was holding me in His arms. I felt this very clearly and His love was within every fiber of my being and every cell of my body. He was in front of me, behind me, beside me, all around me. All I felt was His total acceptance of me with absolutely no judgment at all. He is all love; completely love and He showered that love totally on me and through me. I felt so complete and whole for the first time in my entire existence. I had a life review, which just seemed to happen all on its own. This lasted but a blink of an eye and the lesson in the reviewing process is that we judge ourselves; God does not judge us. Then I heard His voice, which seemed to be infused into me, yet I heard it as well. The messages were very clear - what you put into this universe, you will get back. Be very careful what words, thoughts and actions you put out into the universe because they most definitely will come back to you in some form, at some point in your life. This He told me to bring back and share.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. Direct head injury    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I have head trauma and was also hit by lightning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was conscious and alert the entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious and alert the entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     This all happened within a couple minutes yet I felt like I was there much longer or maybe it's the other way around.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was more vivid, colors much more crisp and more clear. Colors richer - pinks, pinker, reds, redder. I could see farther and the air was much sweeter, music was everywhere and was glorious. Water flowing in a stream sounded like music as it flowed over the rocks.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much more acute.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I only remember pink and golden clouds and beautiful crystal blue sky beneath them the clouds had the sun shining through them.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     God.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was so beautiful and warm - it looked like the sun shining through the pink and golden clouds.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt so peaceful so loved so much incredible Joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The lesson in the reviewing process is that we judge ourselves, God does not judge us.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My belief in God has always been very strong, that has never changed. I am just more grown up in my view of the universe and the views of the Church.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     My belief in God has always been very strong, that has never changed. I am just more grown up in my view of the universe and the views of the Church.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have written a book, many strange things have happened. Yet many people have seen and read the messages that are posted on my blog as well as in my book. These messages keep coming to me and I just write them as they come.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   There are no adequate words to describe the incredible beauty I saw, or the complete and total acceptance, wholeness, Love, peace and joy I felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have blogged and written a book, messages still come to me so I write when they come.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   But I have had two more death experiences since.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real, my feelings have not changed one bit.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had other experiences and no there were no medications or any other substances that would have caused this to happen.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sharon_b_nde.html