{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 8920 9969 7942","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v4_23_april_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V4 April 23 1887","mylang":"de"}
262 [April !3,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
April 23, 188'1.
The twenty-fourth General Meeting was held at the rooms of the
Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall, on April 23,
1887.
TuB PRUIDENT, PRoFB8S0R BALFOUR STEWART, F.R.S., IN THE CHAIR.
The President delivered the following address :-
II.
J..et me begin my few remarks by oongratulating the Society on
the recent publication, under its auspices, of PIw.ntam&B ofthe Li'lJing, in
two goodly volumes. I esteem this to be a great work; and if, in a
sense, it may be regarded as a preliminary discussion, it is not because
the materials are so meagre, but because the subject is so large. For
my own part, I oonceive that the evidence for spontaneous telepathy is
extremely strong-that it forms, perhaps, the strongest class ofevidence
that our Society has yet dealt with. A praiseworthy attempt has been
made in these Tolumes to put part of this evidence into a numerical
form, and to demonstrate the very great improbability of the reoorded
ooincidences being due to chance. In view of the fact, never before
precisely established, that purely subjective hallucinations of sane
persons are by no means extraordinary or extremely rare occurrences,
this calculation was a necessary part of the argument. My belief is,
however, that the strongest evidence is of such a nature that it cannot
easily be clothed in numerical garments. Between a reoorded vision
and the death, let us say, of a distant friend, there are other points of
ooincidence than that of time; frequently, for instance, there are curious
circumstantial similarities, such as have been described in these volumes,
but of which the evidential strength cannot well be expressed in
numbers, although we know that this must be very great.
I may here be allowed, with reference to our Society and its
prospects, shortly to review the present position of those departmenta
of science with which we are most familiar, as well as the attitude
assumed by the various scientific workers. First of all, we see the
youthful acolyte driven to science by the operation of an unoontrollable
instinct that selects for him not only the spot where he shall begin his
mental labours, but the tools and the materials which he shall employ.
Here he works indefatigably, adding with sure but cautious hand stone
upon stone to his oomer of the great temple. of knowledge" Casting
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] 263
his eyes around him, he sees fellow workers not far distant doing the
same thing, each equally busy in his own little corner.
Now each of these workers may have only a very dim conception of
the shape and features which the completed building will ultimately
assume. But yet there is no doubt in the mind of each that these
various little works will so fit in with one another as to form one grand
and harmonious whole. Were we to clothe this belief in Theistic
language it would imply,amid great darkness,a trust nevertheless in the
unity of design of the Great Architect from whom each worker has
received his commission. It would imply, moreover, a trust of each in
his fellow workers, a species of faith without which it would be impos-
sible to rear any great and glorious temple, or indeed, for that matter,
to do anything else worth mentioning in the world.
What I have now described is the state of mind towards his
fellows and towards his work of each individual in a group of builders
engaged in some particular corner of the great work-field. We have
seen that there is belief in his work and belief in his fellow-
workers. But there are many such groups, some of them very remote
from others, and the feelings entertained by the members of one group
for those of a distant group are not always so satisfactory. It may
be that the microscopical'intentneBB with which the man of science
has to regard his near environment tends to disqualify him from
properly appreciating distant objects. Be this as it may, the members
of one group are too apt to disregard the labours of another and
distant group, and to imagine either that they are not building
at all or that they are not building anything that will
last. There is, in fine, a comparative inability to see that the
distant group are engaged equally with themselves in advancing
the same great work.
If I have made myself clear, it would seem that there is a strong
practical faith amongst the neighbouring workmen in each department
of science, and an equally strong aBSurance that their united labours
will ultimately have an issue larger than anyone of them can realise.
There is not, however, the same aBSuraDce that the various groups
of workers are equally trustworthy, and that all are striving with
earnestneBB and success to yield their contributions to the same great
cause. Philosophy has, if I mistake not, her part to play amongst these
workers. I do not, I must confess, think that the union between
philosophy and science has hitherto, as a rule, been sufficiently intimate.
Philosophers have, as I think, too exclusively concerned themselves
with successfully deepening and enriching our conception of the
universe as a whole, and hence have not taken sufficient pains to see
that scientifio workers have been duly permeated with the spirit and
doctrines of a true philosophy. One feels almost tempted to apply to
Digitized by Coogle
Pr68ident'8 .Address. [April 23,
some of them the lines of the poet, who, after describing the huge works
erected by the f&llen angela and the great projeds entertained by
them, proceeds thus to describe the philosophers of the party :-
Othel'll apart sat on a hill retired,
In thought. more elevate, and reason'd high
Of providence, foreknowledge, will, and fate,
Fix'd fate, free will, foreknowledge absolute,
And found no end, in wandering maze. 10it.
But I would not have you suppose that I mean to make a sweeping
charge against all philosophers. There are some who have come down
from those elevated regions on which they have obtained a clear insight
into the great temple of knowledge, to enforce their views upon the
individual scientific workers, amongst whom they have played the part
of generals and directors of labour. Indeed, I believe that our Society
owes its success in a great measure to this action of our first President,
who, while much distinguished as a philosopher, has not only success-
fully enforced the claims of psychical research upon the regard of
men of science, but has likewise taken a person&! part in the scientific
labours of our Society.
You will perceive by these few remarks that while, as I think, there
is not yet a complete unity of purpose or action between the scientific
workers in distant fields, yet the time is rapidly approaching when this
union will be more complete, and when (to use a technical term) the
diminution of intern&l friction will set so much more energy free
towards the completion of the one great and glorious work. To vary
the metaphor, we see before us at present a number of separate rivulets
of knowledge each rushing along impetuously within well defined granite
walls. Let us, however, pursue the course of these rivulets sufficiently
far and we shall find that they will ultimately merge into one great and
mighty river of knowledge, bearing on its bosom the means of inter-
communion between distant regions, with fulness in all its borders.
I anticipate, therefore, at no distant period the full recognition of our
labours by men of science in general; but here I pause to notice a
friendly objection that has been raised to the work of our Society.
It has been urged that we have not succeeded in formulating in
precise language laws which might embrace the various facts that we
have brought to light. This objection was raised before the publica-
tion of Phantasms of the Li",-ing j but I cannot think that it will be
maintained by anyone who has read this work. The shadowy form of
a. great reality is looming through the darkness, and at least two specu-
lators are busy, each from his own point of view, endeavouring to render
the outlines clearer. Can we expect such 110 work to be definitely com-
pleted in a day or a year 7 It ought not to be forgotten that there are
several possible explanatiolls of the facts recorded, and of these some
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] P'l'e8ident'8 .AddreB8. 265
are less likely than others to yield us laws capable of definite expression,
or at least of definite numerical expression. For what is the phenomenon
before us7 Adopting the well-known, and not, I think, unscientific
terms, mind, body, and medium, we find in these volumes that an affec-
tion of the mind and body of A produces an affection of the mind and
body of B by some. unknown means, and often at a great distance.
Now there are at least three conceivable hypotheses by which this
action may be explained :-(1) The mind of A may act directly upon
the mind, and through it upon the body, of B ; or, (2) the mind of A may
act directly upon the body, and through it upon the mind, of B; or, (3)
the body of A may act in a peculiar manner upon the medium, and the
medium may act upon the body, and through it upon the mind, of B.
lf the last hypothesis be correct, we may confidently hope to obtain
something approaching numerical laws ; but if the first hypothesis be
true, it is more difficult to entertain this hope.
At present we should have three simultaneous objects in view. First
of all, we must accumulate evidence; secondly, we must sift it; while
in the third place we should discuss and speculate upon the confirmed
evidence in the freest possible manner. I cannot doubt that the
truth will ultimately emerge from such a discussion, pursued with
sufficient energy and perseverance.
Before concluding, I should wish to say a few words about another
branch of our programme of inquiry which has assumed considerable
prominence in the Jou'f"Tl,Q,l and Proceedings during the past year
--I mean the phenomena of so-called Spiritualism. Those who are
known as Spiritualists maintain two things. They assert in the
first place the existence of certain phenomena, while in the second place
they maintain that the simplest and most natural, if not, indeed, the
only legitimate explanation of these involves the existence of spirits
which are permitted on certain occasions to hold intercourse with man
I need not say that many of us believe in the existence of other
intelligent beings besides man, unseen by us as a rule, and in all proba-
bility superior to us in mental rank. Many, too, believe that the
denizens of the spiritual world are not indifferent to our welfare, and
that we frequently receive aid from them in important crises of our
mortal life, while others are not unwilling to solicit such. aid. But
probably all are agreed that, assuming the existence of spirits, there is,
at least, as great a variety of character amongst the inhabitants of the
unseen world as amongst ourselves, if, indeed, the range of character
be not much greater, extending upwards to heights of goodness which
we cannot reach, and downwards to depths of guilt and ignominy
which we cannot fathom. .
Many will argue that under these circumstances we must so guard
ourselves in our intercOlirse with the spiritual world as to be certain
. Digitized by Coogle
266 prelJid,ent', .Address. [April 23.
that our advances will only be responded to by the good. And
unquestionably a bad man who appeals to evil spirits to help him in
his wickedness deserves the reprobation of humanity, even although his
advances may not meet with any response. The attempts of the
modem Spiritualists to hold communion with the denizens of the
unseen belong to neither of the categories now mentioned. They are
not the appeals of poor humanity for spiritual help from good angels,
and unquestionably they are not the endeavours of the wicked to
procure &SSistance from the powerful and the bad. There is, as a rule,
hardly any moral colouring about them; and the Spiritualists may be
regarded as a society endeavouring to obtain conclusive proof of the
existence of spirits, rather than a confederacy to elicit spiritual aid in
the affairs of life. Now I have tried to show in these remarks that an
indispensable condition of progress in any branchof science is mutual c0-
operation and confidence between the various members of that branch.
A man must trust his fellow-workers, otherwise he will not be able to
advance the department of knowledge to which he has devoted himself.
And if our object be to receive scientific evidence of the existence of
spirits, this &88umes co-operation between ourselves and these intel-
ligences. But here we have no guarantee for character such as we have
a right to demand from our fellow-workers in science. We know very
well that our comrades, in any ordinary branch of science or know-
ledge, are perfectly honest, and that their object is to advance that
branch. But assuming for the sake of argument that we can com-
municate with spirits, what proof have we of their honesty, or how do
we know that their object, as well as ours, is to obtain for us good
evidence of their existence 1 Some of us may be disposed to question
the likelihood of man being permitted in his present state to obtain at
will scientific evidence of the existence of spiritual beings. The spirits
with whom I &88ume, for the sake of argument, that we are brought into
contact, may neither have the power nor the will to prove their
existence as a scientific fact, and yet they may have the power of
leaving the door of evidence partly open. We may in truth be dealing,
not so much with willing coadjutors that will &88ist us in throwing this
door completely open, as with versatile opponents who will equally
oppose all attempts either to throw it completely open or to keep it
definitely shut. In fine, we are not sure that this research will ever be
decisive or that we shall be able to prove either an affirmative or a
negative.
It is not necessary to discuss the question whether one who has
satisfied himself that he is in communion with spirits is acting wisely
in continuing the intercourse. We have not, I imagine, as yet pro-
gressed sufficiently far to entertain this question. The problem at
present before us is, to determine whether certain alleged ,phenomena
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] President'8 Address. 267
do or do not occur, and then, presuming, for the sake of argument,
that this question is decided in the affirmative, to give an opinion
whether it is not the simplest explanation of these to suppose them
due to spiritual agency. Unquestionably, certain members of our
Society are in a good position to afford help in settling these questions.
for they are skilled and well practised in examining evidence, and they
are likewise capable of deciding whether telepathy or some extension of
it may not account for the phenomena without the necessity of resorting
to the hypothesis of spiritual agency j a.nd our friends the Spiritualists
are, I think, perfectly justified in challenging us to undertake this
business of investigation. There are, however, reasons why the Com-
mittee who undertake the task should rather be one requested by the
President to act than 0. formal committee of our Society. Under these
circumstances I have requested the following gentlemen to take part,
with myself, in a Committee of this nature, with the view of investigating
the reality of such alleged Spiritualistic phenomena &8 may be brought
before them :-Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., Professor O. J. Lodge, Professor
Barrett, Mr. Angelo J. Lewis, Mr. E. Gurney, and Mr. F. W. H.
Myers. These have all agreed to serve j and surely the composition of
the Committee is such that they may be trusted to examine in a receptive
and impartial manner any evidence submitted to them, &8 well &8 to
detect any attempt at imposture that may be practised upon them.
Such attempts are greatly to be regretted j but we must perhaps expect
them to cling more closely to 0. subject of this nature than to the
ordinary branches of human knowledge.
Digitized by Coogle
268 Peculiarities of aertain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
ill.
PECULIARITIES OF OERTAIN POST-HYPNOTIC STATES.
By EDMUND GURNBY.
I.
EXECUTION OF HyPNOTIC COMMANDS IN A WAKING AND IN A
TRANCE-WAKING STATB.
To students of hypnotism it is one of the most familiar of truths that
a person on whom a command has been impressed during the
trance will often perform it afterwards, however out of place or
ridiculous it may be. The fact at once suggests two important
questions, one practical and the other psychological. (1) What limits,
if any, can be assigned to the operator's influence in this respect f Could
the awakened .1 subject" be made to do things completely alien to his
natural character---6.g., to commit a crime which would never have
spontaneously occurred to him , (2) In what state is his mind during
the time that the command is being executed 1
This second question, it is plain, has practical bearings of its
own; not only because on the state of the "subject's" mind will
depend the degree of his responsibility for his actions; but because
by the state of his mind we must decide whether or not it is justifiable,
even for experimental purposes, and with no risk of serious external
consequences, to suggest the performance of any action which is morally
objectionable. If his state is as remote from normality as that of
dream, it might reasonably be held that acts performed in it left no
more trace on the character than those dream-scenes in which the most
magnanimous man is often mean, and the bravest man a coward; but
in proportion as the state approximated in its general character to that
of waking life, would the risk increase of mischievous results from an
actua.l though artificial ascendency of lower impulses' I do not purpose
to pursue this ethical question in the present paper: I have brought it
forward merely for the sake of a word of caution, which seems at this
moment to be peculiarly needed. I seriously fear that the continuance,
in the French schools, of experiments of the sham-criminal type may
greatly prejudice the general investigation of hypnotism. A certain
amountof not very reasonable prejudice has already been excited by
the proof that, with exceptionally sensitive" subjects," a hypnotic
order will produce the subsequent commission of a crime. That is to
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] PeC'Uliaritie8 of Oe'l'tain Post-H'!JP'1Wtic States. 269
say, hypnotism, like strychnine and arsenic, is an instrument that may
be abused; and people sometimes fail to see that this is not a reason
for neglecting to study it, any more than for exacting ignorance of the
properties of strychnine and arsenic from medical practitioners. But
a much more valid objection might be raised if the study itself were
misconducted; if the proof, already complete, degenerated into
exhibition ; and if persons with no evil intent, merely by the
inconsiderate repetition of sensational experiments,,- gave ground for
suspecting a possible perversion or weakening of their" subject's" moral.
I believe myself that the danger of producing unconscious injury in
this way is very slight. The" subject's" frequent oblivion of his
action is a strong guarantee that it has not left any appreciable trace
on his character ; and experimentation with healthy "subjects"-which
I hope to see more and more made the specially English branch of the
invastigation-seems to show that they are not likely to act in opposition
to their real character, except in cases when their real character is so
completely off the stage as to run no chance of taint. But as it is
certain that the danger, when once it is rumoured abroad, will cause
exaggerated alarm, and as it is one that can be perfectly easily avoided,
I think the scientific rule should be to avoid it.
To pass now to the purely psychological question-it has generally
been assumed that the mind of the" subject," during the post-h'ypnotic
performance of a hypnotic command, is in its ordinary waking
state, and that the idea of performing the action presents itself
just as scores of ideas whose immediate origin is not obvious
present themselves every day, and is carried out just as any spon-
taneous whim might be carried out. On this view the abnormality
would lie merely in the mode whereby the appropriate state of mind
(including the idea and the impulse to carry it out) is evoked with
certainty at the mom~nt fore-ordained by the operator; not in the state
of mind itself. Another view is that at the moment when the action
is about to be performed, the hypnotic trance again supervenes, and
lasts during its performance. And a third hypothesis has been that
the action is performed in a state distinct both from hypnotic trance
and from nonnal waking, to which the name of ",Bille somnambulique
has been appropriated. Each of these views can claim facts in its
support. But my conteBtion will be that each view in tum has
been maintained in a far too sweeping ·fashion ; that there has
been here, as elsewhere in the hypnotic field, too much haste to
generalise; and that the psychological condition ofthe" subject" during
the post-hypnotic performance of hypnotic commands, and also during
the intermediate period after waking and prior to the performance,
really admits of great variety. This will be clear, I hope, when we
have considered some actual cases.
Digitized by Coogle
270 Peculiaritia of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
To begin with, then, there are some caaes in which no reason what-
ever appears for regarding the state in which the action is performed as
other than normal. The" subject's" account of it afterwards is as of
something which it just occurred to him that he would like to do, and
which he did because he chose. While he does it, he is in his usual rela-
tion to the external world, and can converse naturally and rationally;
and both the performance itself and the surrounding circumstances are
completely remembered afterwards. He is so much himself that, if the
act is an odd one, he is conscious of its oddity, and will make excuses or
apologies for it. Thus, one of my recent" subjects," who was told that
at a certain time after waking he was to poke the fire-which would, of
course, be an odd thing for him to do unasked in my room-when the
time arrived, turned to me and asked politely if I should object to his
poking the fire. Another" subject" was told during his trance that,
when I rose from my seat for the fourth time, he was to blow
out a particular candle close to which my wife was sitting at work.
He was woke, and conversed with me in a perfectly natural manner.
I rose from my seat at intervals, took a few paces through the room or
stood at the fire for a few seconds, and sat down again. On the fourth
occurrence of this, the lad got up, saying," There is too much light here" ;
but instead of at once fulfilling the order, he had sufficient forethought
and courtesy to take another candle from another table, and to place it
where the one that he was to blowout stood ; after which he blew out
the right one. Questioned some minutes afterwards, he perfectly
remembered what he had done. Similarly, Miss S., a "subject" of Mr.
Myers, who had been told that she was to pluck off a large withered
leaf from a plant in the drawing-room, on waking, went up to the
plant, handled it, and asked her hostess's permission to pluck off the
leaf, as she thought it would be au improvement. She had no sense at
all of anything exceptional in her impulse.
As one might expect, caaes where this amount of recollectedness is
maintained shade into others where the reasonable instinct triumphs
over the impulse. For example, Miss S. was told in the trance that
she was to change her dress for dinner, in a house where on ordinary
days this was not the custom. She and her hostess were sitting
together in the drawing-room, the latter writing, when the dinner-
hour approached. MiBB S. suggested that it was time to dress, and
meeting with no response, went up to her room. She afterwards
reported that she had actually begun to take off her gown, but at the
last moment changed her mind. On another occasion, she was told to
bring the spoons out of the dining-room into the drawing-room, which
was properly the parlour-maid's duty. She was left to wake in the
dining-room, and presently followed the rest of the party into the
drawing-room, saying, "I know what you want me t".9..do, bllt I don't
Digitized by l:.oogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 271
mean to do it-it is too absurd...• So here not only was the impulse
truly criticised. but its origin thence inferred.
Cases of this sort are chiefly interesting in their contrast to those
where abnormalities appear-to which therefore we may at once pass.
It was in relation to memory that the first suggestion was found of
some peculiarity in the mental condition which accompanied the action.
There are cases where the action. though performed with every ap-
pearance of naturalness, and without any impairment of the normal
consciousness, proves to be completely forgotten within a few seconds
of its performance. This happens even in cases where the action
has not been of a simple sort. which could be almost mechanically
carried out, but has. involved care and attention. For instance.
one of my "subjects" named P--ll (a sturdy young fellow of 22. a
light porter by trade.) had been told. in the trance. that he was after-
wards to take up a pack of cards and pick out all the diamonds. He did
so. talking rationally the while, but still in the tone of a person who
does not want to be disturbed, and bestowing obvious pains on his task.
When it was completed, he handed me the separate diamond suit, and
replaced the rest of the pack on the mantelpiece. In a few seconds he
spontaneously took up the pack again. and went through it to make sure
that no diamonds remained; and then asked me for the diamonds and
went through them, to make sure that they were all there. Yet within
half-a-minute he was unaware that there was a card in the room; when
I told him to look for some. his eyes roamed about for some little time
before they lit on the pack. which was lying in the same place as
before; a.nd on examining it he expressed surprise at finding that all
the diamonds (which I had replaced at the top) were tOgether.
But the failure of subsequent memory is, after all. only an indirect
symptom of abnormality during the performance of the act. Moreover,
it is not a constant sign: we shall have to notice later, on the one
hand, that there is a condition of far more decided abnormality than
was involved in the instance just given, where yet memory of the
action may survive intact; and, on the other hand, that memory some-
times fails where the condition has shown no abnormality whatever.
Thus one is led at once to the idea of applying some test during the
actual performance of the action. What test will be suitable 1 None,
surely, can be more so than the imposition of a new command. of a sort
that the "subject" would regard as ajoke and would never carry out. if
he received it when in a normal state. but which would be fulfilled as
a matter of course if impressed on him in a state of hypnotic sensibility.
I will describe some experiments in which this test proved completely
satisfactory. The hypnotist in all the cases hereafter described was
Mr. G. A. Smith, to whom I am greatly indebted for his skilful and
patient co-operation. I will call him S.
Digitized by Coogle
2'12 PecUliarities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic State8. [April 23,
On February 26th, W--8 (a healthy and thriving young baker in
Brighton, and an excellent hypnotic" subject ") was told, when hypno-
tised, that when next he came he was to take up some loose string and
wind it up. As soon as he arrived, on February 28th, he took up some
loose string which was lying in view, and began making it into a ball.
There were already some signs of abnormality, as, though USU&lly most
courteous in manner, he resented my interference with him with some
rudeness. While he was busy with the string, S. came in and said to him :
"Before you go, you are to blowout one of the candles at the piano."
W--s took no notice, but went on winding the string, and when he
had finished, handed it to S., saying, "' You can have that." In a
minute or two I asked him what he had been doing since he came in,
He replied, "Only standing here, talking to you." Questioned about
string, he seemed completely puzzled, felt in his pockets, and declared
that he had not got any; nor did the actual sight and touch of the
ball which he had just wound up awaken any memory. Experiments
of a different kind followed; and, just as he was leaving, he looked
once or twioe towards the piano, remarked, "How that wax smells;
I'll put it out," and then crossed the room and blew out one of the
candles, after which he turned to me and said, "You don't mind,
do you, sid"
The same experiment, tried with an intelligent young mechanic
named S-t,who is in some ways a less impressionable"subject,"failed ;
and it is interesting to observe that in his case there was no oblivion of
the action during the performance of which the fresh command was
given; so that to a certain extent we may suppose that the failure of
memory and the responsiveness to commands vary together. S--t's
state of mind during the performance was, however, certainly not
nonnaI. The order, given two days before, was to pull up a particular
window-blind when next he came. On his arrival he showed restlessness
and uneasiness, and in a minute jumped up, stripped off his coat, and
pulled up the blind--explaining, when I expostulated with him, that
someone, he did not know who, had told him to do it, and offering
politely to pull it down again. But the command to blowout the
candle, which he received while pulling, remained unexecuted.
A second way of testing the state in which the command is
executed is by imposing, while the execution is in progress, not the
command of a future action, but the suggestion of a future hallucm.
tion. Here is a case in which something of this kind was done. On
March 1st, W--8 was told that, as soon as he came next day, he was
to take an umbrella from a corner of the room, open it, and walk
about the room with it. He arrives, and at once fulfils the order;
and while he is examining the umbrella, S. tells him that when
he (S.) asks him after his wife, I shall disappE)&l". lqunediately
Digitized by ~008le
1887.] Peculimities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 273
after thi~ a change came over W--s's face, and he ceased fumbling
with the umbrella, and asked in surprise how he came by it. Some
other experiments ensue; and then, while he is talking quite
naturally to me, S. says to him, "How's your wife, Fred 1" He
instantly looks up and around, asks where Mr. Gurney has gone to,
and shows much astonishment. In this state he proves easily
susceptible to yet a further impression-a command, this time, to put
his hat on backwards before leaving, which he punctually fulfils. He at
first doubts if the hat is his own, but then corrects its position, and
explains," It didn't seem quite to fit, but I had it on backwards."
The following case is still more interesting, as in it the two tests of
command and hallucination were combined, and the hallucination was
of a more positive sort. On ~Iarch 2nd, W--s is told, as on a previous
occasion, to wind up some loose string when next he comes. While he
is executing this command on March 3rd, S. tells him that he is to take
the glass shade off the centre ornament on the mantelpiece; and that
when I cough for the fifth time, the room will become dark. As soon
as the string was wound, he looked up suddenly, and asked how he
came by it. He then walked to the mantelpiece, removed the shade,
a.nd gave it to S. Being told to take it back, he absolutely denied
having brought it-said he never would have dared to touch such a
thing, for fear of breaking it; and he remembered no more about the
strtng than that he had fOUlld it in his hands. During the conversa-
tion which followed, he was perfectly himself. I coughed at intervals,
five times, without any result. But either one of the coughs was not
heard, or there was a mistake in counting, which never happened on
any other occasion; for at my sixth cough he instantly began to
behave as if the room were in darkness, called for matches, fell against
the furniture, groped for the candles, and tried to light those which
were already lighted. The abnormal condition was in this case so
advanced that he had to be woke from it by a clap and call. I need
not say that no memory of it remained.
Yet another test was suggested by the fact that things heard in the
hypnotic state, though forgotten on waking, are remembered when the
hypnotic state again supervenes. If the "subject," while post-
hypnotically executing an order, showed remembrance of some quite
different topic which had been suggested to him while entranced, it
would be the strongest proof that the state of trance was to some extent
renewed. On March 22nd, P--ll was told in the trance that when
I looked out of the window, he was to pick out the diamonds from a.
pack of cards; he was also told that there was going to be an exhibition
of some performing fleas in a tent in the New Steine. He was roused,
and at the appointed signal he took up the cards, and began sorting
them; and while so doing, he was questioned as to the fleas, and showed
Digi T
274 Pecu.liaritiu of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
complete remembrance of that topic. The memory both of the cards
and the fleas proved to survive, even after the fulfilment of the order;
but on his being hypnotised for a moment and then suddenly woke,
both ideas had completely vanished, and no reminders could recall
them. As on a former occasion, he had to look for the pack before he
found it, and was surprised that all the diamonds were together.
But the experiment was more interesting and conclusive when the
idea which was thus revivable during the fulfilment of the command
was one that had been suggested on some quite different occasion, and
so could not have been in any way associated with the command. Now
in'previous experiments on the stages of hypnotic memory (see the
paper on the subject later in this Number) a number of different ideas
had been impressed on the" subjects," either in the lighter state of
trance, A, or in the deeper state, B. Of these ideas, three were as
follows-that the head of the Brighton pier had been washed away;
that a balloon had been seen floating over the King's.road; and that
two large dogs had been having a fight in the Western-road. These,
then, supplied the test required. On February 28th W--s was told
that, when next he came, he was to play with an air-ball which was
lying about in the room. Next day, while he is thus engaged, S. says
to him, "Fred, what was that about the pier 1" He replies, "What,
about its being partly washed away 1"-which was one of the things
that he had been told in state A, on February 25th. S. then tells him
that, before he goes, he is to strike some notes on the piano ; and
that in four minutes he will see his wife in the room. Very
soon after this he puts doWB the ball, and talks quite natura.lly.
He is then questioned a.bout the pier, but says that he has not heard
()f any accidents or of anything relating to the pier. He then begins to
look thoughtful, and soon says, "Wasn't I to see someone here
to-night, Mr. S. 1" He could not explain, further than by saying
that he had an idea he was to see someone. I now began patting the
air-ball about, and left it in his hands. He squeezed it with his
thumbs, looked into it, and said, "There is a face in it! Do you see
that face 1" (The surface of the ball was shiny, but not enough so
to reflect his own face, or anything in the room except the fire and
candles.) S. said, "Whose face 1 Do you recognise it 1" He replied,
"No; it's fading away now." It was impossible not to notice the
change which came over his own face as this hallucin&tion presented
itself.1 He has very noticeable eyes, and the sort of filmy, dreamy
expression which is often seen during the process of hypnotisation, just
before the eyes close, was on this occasion quite unmistakeable. It was
1 Of. Delbamf, .. De 1& pretendue Veille Somnambulique," in the RevU$
PhilO8Ophique for February, 1887, p. 127.
izedbyGoogle
188'1.] Peculia-rities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 2'15
remarked by two visitors, who were certainly not on the look-out for it.
W---8 was now immediately asked if he had heard of "that thing
floating over the King's-road." "Oh, yes, that balloon," he at once
replied_nother of the state-A suggestions. He was then told that he
would see his wife in three minutes, and I took the ball from him;
whereupon he rubbed his eyes, looked himself again, and talked as
usual. S. now went on to talk about the balloon; but it awakened no
memory in his mind, and he seemed to think we were poking fun at
him. Then the hazy look again appeared, and he said, "I can see a
lot of faces floating before my eyes to-night"; but again he did
not recognise any of them, and said, "They're going now." He rubbed
his eyes, and S. said, "Can you· see them now 1" " What f " " The
fa.ces "-upon which he gave a look of comical reproof, and said,
"You're trying to make something of me to-night-talking about
faces and balloons." I tossed him the air-ball again, and he began to
pat it up and down. And now a singular thing happened. He failed
to remember the balloon over the King's-road, but he clearly re-
membered something about the dog-fight in the Western-road, which
was an idea connected with the deeper state B. It seems possible
that, owing to our persistence, the stage of trance which supervened
this time was really deeper than that of a few minutes before. It is in
favour of this view that, after rubbing his eyes, and rousing himself a
little, he proved not to have arrived at normal wakefulness, but only at
stage A; for as S. went on talking about the fight, he exclaimed, "A
balloon fight I "-and when asked what he meant, said that S. had been
talking of a balloon over the King's-road. S. said, "I was talking
about dogs"; but he could not now be got to remember the dog·fight ;
and when the balloon was mentioned a few seconds later, he had
forgotten that too, and had come back to normality. The final incident
of thislong experiment took place about half-an-hour later. W--s was
in a hypnotic state, from which S. was just about to awake him, as it
was time for him to go-when he suddenly rose, walked to the piano,
and stumblingly played a tune; thus fulfilling the order about striking
some notes, though in a manner which had not been contemplated.
As regards these experiments with W---8, I may mention that J did
not expect the suggestion of seeing his wife in the room to take effect;
I was surprised, indeed, at its going so far as to produce even dimly the
hallucination of faces. The production, at some future time, of so
definite an hallucination as that of the visible presence of an absent
person is a very extreme result of hypnotic suggestion which-though
I have come near itl_1 have never actually obtained with any of
lOne evening, three of my "subjects," when entranced, were impressed
with the idea that they were to see me euter their respective places of employ-
ment at an early hour next morning. On no single occasion had I evp.~~aUY..
Digitized by ~~QIt:
T_Cl
276 Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic Statu. [April 23,
these "subjects"; and where a result is not produced when the sug-
gestion has been made in an undoubted and completely established
state of trance, one would not expect to produce it by a lIuggestion made
in the less abnormal condition which I have been describing.
And now what name are we to give to that abnormal condition'
There are strong objections to multiplying classes and names of
abnormal states unneceBRarily; and in such a subject as hypnotism, the
habit of doing this may be quite as misleading as the opposite tendency
to generalise the facts too rapidly. Recent French treatises, especially,
have abounded in long lists of states and sub-states, of which a good
many, at any rate, represent no general or radical distinctions, but
merely unimportant and quasi-accidental peculiarities. One writer
makes his classification largely depend on the detail whether the eyes
are open or shut--though the eyes may remain shut during the liveliest
somnambulic convenation, and may remain open during rigid and
speechless trance. Another discovers and describes a peculiar state which
he calls "fascination " ; ignoring the fact that in a well-known work a
state which is practically the same has already been classified under
the head of "charm," and that no real diBtinction has been shown
between either and the leBS picturesquely named state of somnambulism
with open eyes. And so on. The fact is that it is impoBBible to
arrange the phenomena in tabular series, without ignoring a number
of poBBible combinations, exceptions, and cross-divisions; and the fancy-
arrangement. of stages and transitions might easily come to rival in
number and variety those of the German declensions, without leaving
a much clearer impreBSion on the student's mind. More especially
does it need recognition that not only have hypnotic "subjects" their
own little personal ways, bodily habit&, and mental characteristics; but
that every operator, and every hypnotic milieu, is likely to develop
in a particular group of " subjects" habits which in other conditions are
been to ~ee them there at any hour. Two of them told me afterwards that for
soDle time in the morning they had had an odd feeling that I was coming, and
were on the look·ont for me. The third had had no mch experience. On anotber
occuion, I found tbat the impresllion whicb refused to develop itself in sensory
form during waking moments would do so in Bleep. On March ht, W--s was
told, in the trance, that on that nigbt he would have a vivid dream, in wbich an
unusual high tide would wash away the Parade, and would come up almost to
his Bhop. On l\'larch 3rd, he Bpontaneously told DB that, on the night before
last, he had bad a very troubled dream, which woke him suddenly; but he
could not remember what it was about. Asked if there was anything abont
waterin it, hesaid that be believed there was, but bad no precise recollection. He
was then entranced, and tentatively qnestioned, when he said that he bad had a
dream of a higb tide washing the Parade away, and coming up almost to his
shop. Hie memory in the waking state of having had an exceptional dream
makes it reasonable to hder that t.hiB hypnoticmemory was of the actual dream,
and not merely of the hypnotic suggestion that he was toAiJL)t,d'~le
Digitized by GUU(5
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 277
not met with, or not met with in the same developed form; and which
are thus liable to be unduly emphasised by those who have observed them,
and unduly suspected by those who have not. The real interest of these
differences is in the wider general fact to which t.hey point--the delicate
and far-reaching susceptibility of hypnotic .. subjects" to unconscious
education. This is a theme on which J hope to say more on a future
occasion; my immediate object is merely to keep the moral in view, and
to inquire how far it applies to the present case. Is the state in which
the described fulfilment of hypnotically-impressed orders took place
really a distinct state, deserving of a separate name 1 The question has
lately been raised in a somewhat aggressive way by the eminent
Belgian professor, M. Delbaluf, and answered by him decidedly in the
negative.} My own answer-which can be supported by equally high
authority-would be as decidedly in the affirmative. On the one
hand, no one probably will dispute that the various points above passed
in review suffice very clearly to distinguish the condition from that of
normal waking; and, on the other hand, the extent to which the
"subject" retains his natural relation to other people and to the
external world, and the fact that his 1088 of memory is confined to the
single point to which the command or suggestion related, are surely
points of sufficient importance to constitute a specific difference from
the ordinary state of hypnotic sleep. It is to Professor Beaunis, I
believe, that the credit belongs of having first clearly recognised this
double distinotion,2 and its importance for purposes of classification;
though I cannot hold that the name which he has applied to the state
distinguished-mile BOmnambulique-is a very happy one. For
"somnambulism" surely suggests an absence of that very awakeness,
that natural relation to external conditions, which the performers in
these post-hypnotic cases are characterised by retaining. J am not
prepared with a convenient French substitute; but in English I think
that trance-1JJfJ!ring might serve fairly well.
I have referred to the view of M. Delbreuf-which he carries to the
length of considering that "all the states represented as intermediate
between waking and hypnotic sleep are simply hypnotic sleep, and
nothing else." An observer of his calibre would, of course, not make
BO· forcible a. statement without having BOme grounds for it; and
these grounds consist in certain experiments made on his own domestics,
which are of such peculiar interest that I make no apology for
briefly describing a few of them. I conclude from them that M. Delbreuf,
BO far from showing that there is no true intermediate state of
trance-waking, has shown, if anything, that there are two instead of one;
1 &we PhilO8Ophique for February, 1887.
2 Bewe Philolophique for July, 1886.
Digitized by Coogle
278 Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23.
to which conclusion I would venture to add, as a rider, that in 80 new
and complicated a branch of psychology, two maid-servants, of how-
ever eminent a psychologist, hardly afford sufficient material for the
formulation of quite sweeping general laws.
The following specimens will fairly illustrate the performances of
this remarkable pair of sisters. On March 13th, 1886, M. Delbmuf gave
M--, for the first time, an order to execute after waking. The order
was to remove some dirty water, and then to return to the arm-chair
and go to sleep. She executed the first part of the order, and when her
master asked her what she had been doing, she told him. and said that
she had felt she ought to do it, as he had commanded her; but instead
of returning to the arm-chair. she said. "I have woke up, sir." Asked
when she woke. she said, "When 1 emptied the pail." "You were
asleep before that, then 1" "I don't know." "Then why do you say
that you woke at that moment 1" "Because at that moment I felt
that I was doing something unusual."
On March 21st, a friend of M. Delbmufs told J--, who was
hypnotised. that when she brought in the second course at
supper, she was to throw the contents of the dish over one
of the guests, M. MasiuB. M. Delbmuf interfered, and told
her to kiss his wife instead, as less inconvenient. To this
she agreed. When supper began, he repeated his caution, and she
again reassured him. On entering with the second course, J-- went
up to her mistress, asked leave to kiss her, and did so. and then held
the dish for her to help herself. She then stood undecided. There was
not a moment to lose, and M. Delbmuf dart-ed towards her, saying.
" Give me the dish." She resisted. and he had to take it by force, and
handed it to M--. He then blew in J--'s face,-when she shook
herself, and seemed to wake; but as she still had retained a look of
determination, and attempted to take the dish from her sister's hands.
she was prudently kept apart for the remainder of the course. Next
day J-- remembered that she had not been able to help kissing her
mistress, and that she had had an impulse to drop the dish, not on the
door, but over M. Masius or between him and Madame Delbmuf;
but she was not sure whether she would actually have done so.
On April 1st, J-- was told that, when a particular guest put his
glass to his lips, she would see his hair suddenly grow to an inordinate
length, and that she would fetch a comb and comb it till it resumed ita
former length; and then she was to wake. The first part of the order
was carried out precisely. and she answered a number of questions
correctly while the combing was going on; but then, instead of at
once waking, she settled herself in the arm-chair and slept for some
minutes, after which she woke spontaneously. and the sight of the comb
brought back the whole scene. She described the details of the
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiaritie8 of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 279
hallucination and of her own proceedings, and remembered the •
questions that she haQ answered, and the act of waking. The only
point which she did not recall was returning to the arm-chair and
falling asleeep; and this lacuna in her memory puzzled her. But as
M. Delbreuf justly remarks, unconsciousness of the moment of
becoming unconscious is a species of forgetfulness with which we
are all familiar.
The next case is more elaborate. On April 2nd M. Delbreuf said
to M--, who had been entranced while she was knitting, "After I
wake you, you will knit for five minutes, and then you will write to
your father. You will tell him that you are happy at Liege, and that
order is re-established there. And you will tell me what you have done."
M-- is woke, and takes up her work; after eight minutes, her eyes
close. M. Dplbreuf waited five minutes and then woke her. She was
surprised to find that she had been asleep, and disowned any desire to
do anything particular. M. Delbmuf re-hypnotised her, and asked her
what it was that she had been told to do. " 1 ~o not recollect." " 1
told you to write to your father." "It is done." "What do you mean~
What have you written to him 1" " That 1 was happy at Liege," &c.
"You have not written anything; you have been dreaming. Now you
are to write to him, in three minutes." She is woke, and resumes her
knitting. In six minutes, she rises with an air of resolution, and says,
"I have got to write." "Sit down at the table; there are the materials."
" No, 1 shall go downstairs." " Why' " "I don't want to write here ;
I want to write in the kitchen." She goes downstairs, and demands
writing materials in a peremptory tone which surprises her fellow-
servants. M. Delbreuf follows her, and she asks him whether she is
not entranced, and receives an evasive answer. She is supplied, not
with note-paper, but with a piece of an old bill, and shows no surprise
at this, but will not write while her master is present; he therefore
tells her to come u}HItairs and show him her letter, when it is finished.
After a time she appears without the letter, and begins to knit; and
on being questioned, she says that she has hidden the letter, because
her sister wanted to take it from her. M. Delbmuf goes on talking to
her, but she appears discontented and gives short answers. " Are you
asleep, M--1" he asks. " 1 don't think so, sir," she replies. He
blows in her face, and she comes to herself with a start, and smiles. She
then describes every detail of what had passed. On getting possession
of the hidden letter, M. Delbreuf finds that it runs, "My dear father, 1
hasten to inform you that everything is quiet at Liege, and that we are
getting on very happily."
M. Delbreuf draws attention to the two chief points of interest in
this case; the independence and initiative which the"subject" showed in
the details of her conduct, while still never transgressing the \itles of the
Digitized by ~oo8le
280 Peculiarities of Certain P08t-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
order; and the first fulfilment of the orner in a dream, which may be re-
garded as closely analogous to its real fulfilment in the state of trance-
waking. Another more striking instance of this novel sort of dream-ful-
filment was given on a later occasion when an orner was given the actual
fulfilment of which would have involved violent outrage to a long-
established habit. M. Delbreuf told her to straighten a crooked
knitting-needle at a future moment when he foresaw that to do 80
would necessitate drawing the needle out of the stocking, and spoiling
the work. When the moment arrived, she solved the difficulty by going
to sleep, and dreaming that she straightened the needle; and on
waking she was only with difficulty convinced that her fulfilment of
the order had been imaginary.
Another noticeable point which occurred in BOme cases was the
limitation of the "subject's" consciousness to the one idea suggested.
M-- was told that in a quarter of an hour she was to go and console
a statuette of a weeping monk on the mantel-piece, and was then woke.
She rose at the appointed time, with the customary change of
physiognomy, and executed the orner in dramatic fashion; and when
afterwards asked what she experienced she said, "I was not here, I
was transported somewhere else; I saw no one, I was all alone." So
after being told to take off her garter and put it round her mistress's
neck-an order the literal fulfilment of which was accidentally pre-
vented-she said, when asked, that she should have carried it out, even
in M. Delbreufs presence, as she" saw no one but Madame."
Further experiments showed that the" subjects" could afterwards
describe ridiculous scenes which they enacted, in the midst of normal
life, in obedience to previous hypnotic commands-a.s where M-- was
a petroleum lamp, and struck a match to light herself; where M-- was
a pig, which J-- was selling to a customer; where M-- was a wheel-
barrow full of potatoes,which J--was wheeling about; and where each
which she afterwards recovered. The interest of these observations, for
ill tum was taken to a mirror, and persuaded that she had lost her head,
M. Delbreuf, is that the sort of credulity involved-the conscious but
at the same time wholly uncritical acceptance of these absurn r6lu-
was entirely similar to what was displayed by the same "subjects" in
respect of delusions that took effect in their ordinary hypnotic
condition.
The first point to notice in these results of M. Delbreufs is their
very exceptional character as regarns memory. They show that even
Professor Beaunis-one of the most careful as well as one of the ablest
of the authorities-has gone too far in making subsequent oblivion the
crucial test of his wille 8omnambulique. I know of no cases where the
memory of the post-hypnotic performances has proved so clear, while
at the same time the state in which they took place}US so Iobviously
Digitized by ~008 e
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hyp7Wtic States. 281
abnormal. But a no less exceptional point was that these" subjects "
equally remembered what took place during a state of trance induced
by ordinary means-that is to say, during the deepest hypnotic state
to which it was possible to bring them. And furthennore, M. Delbaluf
tells us that, when entranced, they were always in rapport with every
one alike; thus we have seen that the command as to spilling the
contents of the dish was suddenly given to one of them by a stranger.
Now, to begin with, I must maintain that the combined features of
breach of memory and special rapport with the hypnotiser are such
common and such important characteristics of hypnotic trance, that
cases which present them and cases which do not had better not be
confounded under a single general name. M. Delbreuf seems to have
some consciousness of this objection; for he tries to get round it, as
regards memory at any rate, by treating the question as merely one of
education. But in the first place this is certainly far less so than he
SUpposes;l and in the second place, the fact that an abnormality
can be removed by particular ~reatment does not make it insignificant.
To avoid a new term, M. Delbaluf might still think it enough to
say that his "subjects," alike when hypnotised by ordinary means
and when subsequently carrying out hypnotic commands, were
in a lighter 8~e of trance than mine. I prefer the term trance-'llJ(J,king
1 We have seen, for instance, that M-- perfectly remembered the first
post-hypnotic fulfilment that she was ever engaged in. In an interesting
series of experiments (Revue Pkilosopkiqtu for May, 1886), M. Delbreuf found
that if he woke his II subjects" while they were actually occupied in
following out some hypnotic command or hallucination, they recalled what
had passed, as a dream; and here again he at once 8S8umes that he
has established a nniversallaw. I have frequently seen English II subjects ..
woke in the same way, in the midst of a performance or a hallucination,
and I have never found memory to survive, except in the case of simple
imitative actions where no delnsion W80il involveJ, and very dimly in the case
of new" subjects "-that is to say, exactly those who had not had hypnotic
education. On the very day that I first read M. Delbreufs accnunt, I exactly
repeated on two .. subjects" an experiment of his in which the ballucination
communicated was ot something catching fire, and having to be extinguished by
being plunged into (real) water. The II subjects" were suddenl, woke with the
dripping article in their hands; but neither of them had the slightest memory
how it came there, nor of the previous train of ideas. I offered each of them a
sovereign to recall his .. dream "; but it had left not a wrack behind.
Moreover, in many of the cases which M. Delbmuf describes, he had given tke
C01nmana that the things done or experienced were to be afterwards
remembered and described. No one familiar with hypnotism would be
surprised that tki. means should prove effective; and it would be interesting to
know whether such a command was given in the other cases where it is not
expressly mentionetl. I may add that M. Delbmuf seems to press the resem·
blance of even the remembered hypnotic hallucinations to ordinary dreams much
too far; for he prac'ically treats the latter as if they were never remembered
in waking hours unl_ lOme Bpecial sensation or experiellce recalled ~m'oole
Digitized by ~U "
282 Peculiarities of Certain P08t-HYfYMtic State& [April 23,
for this lighter state, simply because it emphaaisea the fact that the
deeper state, into which his "subjects" were apparently incapable of
being brought, is alBO the ordinary, or, aa we may say, the normal
one, in ca.aea where any decided hypnotic peculiarities appear.
But the further point which I want more especially to bring out ia
this-that even his" subjects" exhibited varieties of state during their
performances of commands. Sometimes they spontaneously resumed
normal life at the conclusion of the performance; but even these C&SeB
were not quite parallel to moat of mine; aa these girla' consciousness of
a change--()f "waking," aa they described it-haa never been described
by my "subjects," though with them the frequent breach of memory
might have been expected specially to favour it. But more often the
Belgian sisters required to be woke by external means, which hardly
ever happened in my experiments, and never unleaa BOme delusion
which had been imposed had been encouraged for an unusual time;1
while on occa.aions, aa we have seen, they actually went BO far aa to
compose themselves in an arm-chair, close their eyea, and take a nap,
before emerging into waking life. Further, there are the occa.aiona on
which they wholly lost rapport with the external world--a very marlr"d
feature, and conspicuously absent in my "subjects." In a word, apart
from the memory-teat (which M. Delbreuf himself regards aa inconclu-
sive), the Belgian" subjects" were not in a lighter but in a deeper, a
more abnormal, state than the English ones. So decidedly waa this the
ca.ae that, even if M. Delbreuf refusea to recognise his own variety of the
tJeille .omnambuliqu6, I do not see how, on the symptoms, he could
refuse to recognise mine. It seems, in fact, to be separated by an even
wider gap from the complete trance on the one hand than, on the other,
from the performances carried out without any apparent deviation from
normality (p. 270)-a cla.aa, by the way, of which M. De1breuf seems to
be equally unaware.
II.
AUTOMATIC EXECUTION OF SLIGHT PHYSICAL MOVEIIlBNTS.
We have now considered three clA88811 of ca.aea ;-(1) those where
the ordained action is consciously performed in a normal state, and
remembered; (2) those where it is consciously performed in a trance-
waking state, and forgotten; and (3) those where it is consciously
1 See p. 273 ; and compare the C8II8 which M. Delbmuf witn8lllled in
the Salpetrillre (Revue Philo.ophiqu6 for February, 1887, p. Illi), where a
hallucination, suddenly impoaed on a waking but highly seDBitive .. 8ubject,"
developed a condition from which apparently only the operator could reI_
her. It is not 8urprising that hallucination8, from their absorbing character,
8hould ha'·e an exceptional tendency to induce an advanced form of trance.
Another instance will be found below, p. 299.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Oertain P08t-Hypnotic States. 283
performed in a trance-waking state, and remembered.! It naturally
occurs to one to ask if the list can be extended-if there is any
fourth class of cases when the action is performed in a 'lUJ'l"lnal
state, and forgotten. For, on reflection, it is evident that the
mere fact of an action being at once or almost at once forgotten
is no sufficient proof of its having been performed in an abnormal
state. There is nothing unusual in the immediate oblivion of things
which have been done in a perfectly normal waking condition. A
large number of actions-those which we commonly call automatic-
are performed in such a condition; many of these are performed with-
out consciousness, and afortiori many of them leave no trace in the
memory. It would not, therefore, be at all surprising to find that
certain actions induced by previous hypnotic suggestion were of this
kind-truly automatic, and involving no more consciousness or memory
than things which we often do with our bands while our minds are
engrossed in thought or conversation. Nor would it be surprising if
the scope of such unconscious and unremembered actions proved to be
rather larger when they are the result of previous hypnotic suggestion,
than when they are the result of habit. It may be said, I think, of
many of our simpler and habitual actions, that we attend to
them much more than is necessary for the performing of them;
and the fact of their remaining to BOme extent in our
memory is usually due to one of two things. Either the
object for which we performed them had some interest and
importance for us, and the actions that we went through to attain this
object are remembered through their 8oBsociation with it; thus we
remember opening an envelope five minutes after doing so, because we
had BOme interest in getting at the letter inside, and the greater
memory draws, 80B it were, the lesser one into its wake. Or else quite
unimportant details of custom engage our attention, and BO are after-
wards remembered, merely because the attention is not BOlicited in any
other direction; thus in the course of an ordinary day we may remem-
ber the process of dressing in the morning, though we quite forget it
on BOme exceptional day when we had to go through it after a sudden
awaking, and while listening to BOme agitating news. Now in the
postrhypnotic execution of commands, both these conditions of atten-
tion and memory are often absent. The act is performed without any
I It should be remarked that-apart from the exceptional cases laa~
described where there is an approximation to complete trance-the third class
really shades into the first ; since normality is not separated from trance·
waking by any definable line. Subseqnent memory seems to be the rule in
C888II where abnormality haa only reached the point that the" subject" feels
nnable to refrain from the action, thoughsensibleof iy uRel_ness or absurdity.
and anrpriaed by the strength of his impulse to perform it.
Digitized by Coogle
284 Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
purpose that could give it interest, since the" subject" did not conceive
of it as a means to the fulfilment of any end of his own. If he pokes
the fire because he is beginning to feel cold, he may very naturally
remember doing so; but if he pokes it in blind obedience to a
forgotten suggestion, the act lacks one chief ground for continuance in
memory. And again, the moment for the post-hypnotic performances
often falls, as it has been expressly arranged hy the operator to fall, at
a time when the "subject's" attention is being claimed in some other
direction-for instance, when he is engaged in animated talk; so that
the actions have a fair ch~nce, so to speak, of being performed auto-
matically, if they are performed at all. On these grounds, it would
certainly seem reasonable to expect that simple actions, commanded
during trance, but performed in a conscious waking state and without
any relapse into a state of temporary trance or trance-waking, might
sometimes be purely automatic and unconscious.
Experiment confirms this view up to a certain point. There are
transitional cases where the memory seems to have vanished, but can
with pains be evoked. Thus, W- s was told in the trance that, when I
coughed for the third time, he was to put his hand to his head for a
moment; and was then awoke. He obeyed at the third c:>ugh, and then
folded his arms. In a few seconds I asked him whether he had moved;
he said" No," and looked astonished. I then said that I fancied I had
seen him put his hand to his head, and he then considered and said,
" Oh, yes, I believe I did put it up a moment ago ; I believe I often do
so." He was re-hypnotised, and told that when I coughed for the
second time he was to nod his head at S. He said, "What, to make
game of him'" (i.e., of me)__nd is amused with the notion. He was
woke, and at my second cough, while in the act of conversing with S., he
gave a distinct nod, at the same time giving a sort of knowing wink in
my direction, and joining in S.'slaugh. He apologised" for laughing at
Mr. Gurney's cough;" but the nod itself, which seems by association to
have revived the sense of amusement, proved to be completely
forgotten. In the same way P--ll obeyed a command to nod his
head at my third cough, and on my asking him immediately afterwards
what he had done, looked puzzled and said, "Nothing." I said I
thought he had nodded, but he was certain he had not. Shortly after-
wards, he obeyed the command to put his hand to his head when I
poked the fire for the second time; but on my questioning him and
imitating the gesture, he again denied having made it.
Here, then, we certainly seem to find our fourth class--actions
performed in a normal state, and forgotten or unremembered im-
mediately afterwards. Are we, then, justified in calling these actions
automatic and unconscious' Only in a strictly qualified sense, as further
examination will show.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 285
In the first place, the actions, however easy, transient, and insignifi-
cant, are remembered on re-/,yp'''otiBation. I cannot, of course, assert that
this rule is invariable; but I have never myself observed an exception.
For instance, two days after the incident of the forgotten nod, ahove
recounted, W--s was asked in the trance whether he remembered
"doing anything on Saturday when Mr. Gurney coughed." He
replied in a confidential tone, "When I nodded my head at him'
He didn't see me, did he 1" But even if we had no such
direct proofs of a certain awareness accompanying the perfor-
manee, we can obtain an indirect proof of a peculiarly interesting
kind. We can so arrange that the action, though in itself of the
slightest, shall imply intelligence-shall constitute the intelligent
reply to a question or remark then and there addressed to the
"subject." In a case quoted by Mr. Myers (p. 249) Professor Janet's
"subject" maintained a sort of conversation with him by " automatic"
movements of the hand, while to all appearance fully engaged in an
ordinary conversation with someone else. This occurred during
hypnotic trance; but I have lately obtained some similar results with
" subjects" in a normal waking state. Now if there be a consciousness
-beneath or apart from the" subject's" normal consciousness-which
knows that he is answering and what he is answering, we should
expect the same consciousness to know how he is answering; and
in my cases this expectation was confirmed by subsequent hypnotic
memory of the whole proceeding.
S--t was told, in the trance, that he was to answer my questions by
slightly raising his right-hand for" yes," and his left-hand for" no." He
was then woke, and chatted naturally with 8. for some minutes. At
intervals I addressed some question to him which admitted of a direct
1/66 or no reply, and the true answer to which I knew ;-such as, "Has
it been raining this afternoon 1"-" Have you ever been to London 1"
-40nd 80 on. In every case, about ten times in all, the correct answer was
given in the way prescribed, the conversation with 8. proceeding freely
meanwhile. Two or three minutes afterwards, I offered 8--t a
sovereign to tell me what questions I had asked him, and what he had
been doing with his hands-with the usual impunity to my purse. A
fortnight afterwards, he was asked, in the trance, whether he remem-
bered having ever carried on a conversation with me by means of
signals. At first he did not realise what was referred to; but when
hands were mentioned, the memory recurred; and when asked whether
the signal with the right-hand had not meant No, he replied decidedly,
"No, it meant yes."
On another occasion the same experiment was made with P--l~
who, however, was more distinctly impressed with the idea that he could
not answer me in the usual manner. The result was slightly ditrerent-r
Digitized by l::.OOgle
286 Peculiarities of Certain P08t-Hyprwtic States. [April 23,
the answers were given correctly by the movements of the handa; but
more of what I may call the nonnal attention seemed to be bestowed ~D
me. Thus if I asked a question immediately after S. had made a remark
there would be a moment's pause, and then the signal of response to
my question, before S. received his answer; and if I asked a question
while P--ll was in the act of speaking, his words would become
slightly incoherent, as though a conscious effort were being made to
listen at the same time. I was not surprised, therefore, to find that
he had a normal consciousness of my addressing him. When asked by
S. if he heard me speaking, he said, "Yes, but J cannot answer him."
Asked why, he could not say. The inhibition was now removed, and
he talked to me as usual; but it was curious that when his answers were
of the 'l/6Il or no type, his hands conti""tMJd to move as directed, the one
or the other being slightly raised as the answer was spoken. Noticing
this, I directed him to say "yes, yes, yes," several times over; the
right hand punctually kept pace with the lips, and-what was still
odder-it was impossible to make him aware of the movement.
Though perfectly himself in every other respect, he obstinately asserted
that his hand did not move, and I think it probable that he actually
was under the influence of a special form of "negative hallucination";
80 that here the case recalls those of § I above, when BOme further
abnormality of the ~ng species supervened during the fulfil-
ment of a hypnotic order. On being hypnotised, he remembered all
about moving his hands, though he still declared that he had not HIm
them move.
III.
POST-HYPNOTIC REOKONING 01' TIME AND COUNTING 01' SIGNALS.
So far we have been considering the condition of the "subject" at
the time during which the command is performed. But questions
of even greater interest, and al80, it must be confessed, of greater
difficulty, present themselves when we consider the intervening period,
between the waking which follows the imposition of the command and the
subsequent fulfilment. This period even M. Delbmuf does not venture
to represent as anything but a piece of normal waking life; 1 and
ostensibly of course that is what it is. Yet it is scarcely necessary to look
below the surface to divine that it has peculiarities; and the deeper we
look, the more remarkable will they appear.
If no mention of time is made when the command is given, it will
be executed on waking. If this is not desired, BOme particular time
must be fixed. Thus the command is that the thing is to be done in
half-an-hour, or in 80 many minutes after waking. Here, then, the
1 Rewe PhiloaopMgtltl for February, 1887, ~ 127. I
Digitized by ~008 e
1887.] Peculiaritie8 of Oertain P08t-Hypnotic States. 287
.. subject" has in some way to reckon duration; and he often does so
with remarkable accuracy.
Now in cases of this sort, it does not at first sight seem unreasonable
to conceive that the reckoning is of a simply physiological sort; that
at the time of receiving the command, the "subject," as it were, lets his
organism, as he might set an alarum, for a given time ahead, and that
when the time arrives the action takes place, just as the alarum runs
doWD. This is what is generally assumed to occur in the common case
of determining to wake, and waking, at some unaccustomed hour; and
as long as the hypnotic command extends to only a short time ahead,
that analogy seems plausible enough. M. Delbreuf considers the matter
so plain that he dismisses it in a sentence. The explanation is "des
plus simples," and is this :-Every command given to a "subject" to
perform a certain act at a future time, is at once formulated by him in
these terms, " Yau will fall into a trance at meh and I'UCh a moment,
and then you will perform the act." The" subject's" mind is then
relieved of responsibility, and goes oft' duty; and his bodily machine goes
to sleep, as the sleeper's bodily machine wakes, by its own automatic
machinery. The explanation is certainly simple enough; but it has the
defect of being a pure guess, unsupported by a single fact: no hypnotic
4'subject" has ever confessed to formulating his orders in any suchfashion
as M. Delbreuf represents.
But even if we could accept the assumption of the purely physio-
logical hypothesis for cases of short duration-where the idea of the
period can be distinctly realised and the setter of the alarum sees
exactly what he is about-it would be a far cry to extend it to the well-
known commands t.i longue Echeance, as where the thing is to be done
after 6 months' or a year's interval. I do not think that the peculiarities
of the time-reckoning overlong periods have ever received quitejust treat-
ment; they have either been too much extenuated, or magnified into
something incredibly marvellous.
A distinction must first be made between cases where a date is
named-4l8pecially if the date be a marked one, such as January 1st,
or the anniversary of the day of the command l-and cases where
simply a length oftime is named, not immediately suggestive of a par-
ticular date, as in the direction to do such and such a thing cc on the
69th day from this." In the former case the impression of the date
might be immediately registered in the brain, in association with that
of the order, and the mere arrival of the date might thus suffice to
revive the order. But how is a length of time to be so
1 It is unfortunate that in some of the best known cases of commands
a longue ~cMance. such dates have been selected; but the proof of the
phenomenon does not depend on these cases.
Digitized by Coogle
288 Peculiarities of ·Certain P08t-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
registered t Its further end, till reckoned out by the aid of the
calendar, is perfectly indefinite; and there is nothing in the mere
arrival of the day calculated to revive the terms of the order-
it carries no more aixty-nintlllnu8 about it than any other day.
M. Paul Janet has described such " length of time as in fact
an abstraction-meaning that the mention of it awakens no
distinct image or series of images; and he refuses to believe
that abstract time can be accurately measured, since tIns would
imply some totally unknown faculty. 1 I cannot think that Professor
Beaunis fairly meets this objection by pointing out that "a day"
represents a serieR of conscious impressions and unconscious
organic reactions, and that there are periodic organic changes
which extend over weeks, months, and seasons-that animals
know their feeding-time, and that attacks of fever recur at regular
intervals. His conclusion from these facts is that "the measure-
ment of time is not an abstraction, but has its roots and
conditions in the very life of the orga.nism."2 But, in the first
place, though "a day" may be a sufficiently familiar and definite
unit to present a concrete character, it does not follow that
this is the case with "69 days." And, in the second pla.oe, the
organic conditions which are just what the measurement of established
physiological periods ip80 facto has, are just what the measurement of
periods suddenly and arbitrarily fixed by human volition has not. The
vital processes will no more work out such a measurement as this than
a. school-boy's digestion will work out a proposition of Euclid. How-
ever carried through, it is at least not a function of animal life. It
issues in a perfectly needless act, not in an inevitable bodily state;
and it depends, not on progressive changes in the stomach or the
blood, but on a quite original course of cerebration, proceeding, we
cannot doubt, in the higher tracts of the brain, having been initiated
by an impression-that of the command-winch had a distinct
psychical side. 'Now looking at the brain-side alone, we should
conclude, I think, that the passage of time must be registered, not by
any general gradual change, but by a series of specific changes,
corresponding probably to the days or unitB of measurement.S We
should conclude, that is, tha.t cerebral events of the sort normally
correlated with the ideas" sixty," "sixty-one," "sixty-two," &c., really ,
take place; for how otherwise could the gulf be spanned with I
precision t how would any other sort of change know when to stop, or
1 Revue Politique et LitUraire, for August 16th, 1884.
I Le Somnambliliame Provoqu~, pp. 139·141.
I Cf, the reckoning and registration of units in a later C&Il8 (p. 313). The
uuits there were minutes, Dot days; but I do not see that this much impairs
the force of the analogy.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiaritie8 of Certain Post-HYp1wtic States. 289
associate some point that it had reached with the order given weeks
before t Such a cerebral process alone would wholly differentiate the
case from that of ordinary physiological time-reckoning. But if the
specifie brain-changes take place, does it not seem at least a reasonable
surmise that their mental correlate may exist, though hidden from our
view-that there may further be an actual watching of the course of
time 11 Such a hypothesis would in great part remove M. Paul Janet's
difficulty; for the "unknown faculty" would simply be a known
faculty, working in a normal way, but below the surface of normal
consciousness.
Most of the evidence bearing on this subject will find its appro-
priate place in the next section; but a few facts may be given here.
M. Delbmuf's record contains two cases which are very much
in point. M-- was told, when entranced, that ~ 10 minutes (di:J: was
very likely understood as liz) she was to take Mlle. Delbmufs slipper
from her foot, remove a nail from its heel, and put it back on the
owner's foot. On being woke, she looked at the clock, and kept
glancing at the clock and at Mlle. Delbmuf during six minutes, when
she executed the order. In this case there was doubtless consciousness
(in the ordinary sense) of consulting the clock, and probably a waking
memory of it, as M. Delbmuf seems to say that the memory of the
incident was complete.
In the next example we have probably a similiar consciousness of
watching the time, without the waking memory. A chemist had been
told, when entranced, that five minutes after waking he was to fetch a
bottle of ammonia from a neighbouring shop. He was woke, and
talked naturally to those present; but he looked at the clock
immediately on waking, and kept looking at it at intervals. At the
end of five minutes, he put on his hat and went out, re-appeared with
the ammonia, and took his place again among the bystanders, remarking,
"Why, have I not just been ouU" He was then informed what he
had done, to his great astonishment. This case seems intermediate
between the former one and those where the watching is of a wholly
interior kind, and is not only forgotten afterwards, but is accompanied
by no consciousness of which thA normal l!aking "subject" can render
any accoul1t; but which still, I believe, involves mental action of a sort.
1 It is worth remarking that, if there be such a mental watclaing, then we
have .. freeh argument for the view of .. automatic" actions maintained in the
preceding section. For there would at least be a strong pl"ellumption that the
action up to which the watching leads, and which puts an end to it, however
alight and inl4gnilicant it may be, has itself some sort of mental existence.
I find that the same idea of a con'inued reckoning has occurred to Profeeaor
Pierre Janetand Mr. Myers, Iipropo8 of Bome experiments of the former (p. 239).
The general view, in this and in the following section, as to evidenoe of second-
ary intelligenoe, is I think identical with that of Mr. Myers. . . C· I
Digitized by <lP8 e
290 Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic State8. [April 23,
Here are a couple of instances of this extremer kind. My" subject,"
W---a, was one day told that on the 39th day from then,at 9.30 p.m., he
was to come and call 8n a gentleman resident in the houae where I was
lodging, with whom he had no acquaintance. He of course had no
memory of this direction, when awake. No reference was made to the
command till March 19th, when he was suddenly asked, in the trance,
how many days had elapsed since it was given. He instantly said, 16;
and added that there were 23 more to run, a.nd that the day when he
was due was Easter Monday.! All these statements were correct. But
the odd thing was that, on further questioning, he misdated both the
day of the order and the day of fulfilment, calling the former March 1st,
and the latter April 12th, whereas they were respectively March 3rd
and April 11tho This makes it tolerably clear that he did not originally
arrive at the date of fulfilment by immediate reckoning from the date
of command, and then fix it in his mind simply as a date. (Easter
Monday, when BO near as 23 days, might be arrived at in a moment by
remarking the day of the week.) Moreover if he made March 1st his
termmus II fJ'IMJ, he ought to have Mid 18 instead of 16, and would
probably have had to pause to reckon. The reasonable interpretation
of the result is surely that he was iu BOme way actually counting the
days as they passed.
In the next case, which occurred after the above remarks were
written, I got an actual account of the process, which singularly
confirms them. P--ll was told, on March 26, that on the 123rd day
from then he was to put a blank sheet of paper in an envelope, and
send it to a friend of mine whose name and residence he knew, but
whom he had never seen. The subject was not referred to again till
April 18, when he was hypnotised, and asked if he remembered any-
thing in connection with this gentleman. He at once repeated the
order, and said, "This is the 23rd day; a hundred more."
S. " How do you know' Have you noted each day' "
P--LL. "No; it seemed natural."
S. "Have you thought of it often'"
P--LL. "It generally strikes me in the morning, early.
Something seems to say to me, •You've got to count.'''
S. "Does that happen every day 1"
P--LL. "No, not every day-perhaps more like every other
day. Itgoes from my mind; I never think of it during the day. I
only know it's got to be done."
Questioned further, he made it clear that the interval between
these impressions was never long enough to be doubtful. He" may
1 Unfortunately the accident of the tcMancs on Easter Monday prevented
the execution of the order, &8 W-s went off on • holiday excursion for the
whole ••y.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 291
not think of it for 2 or 3 days; then something seems to tell him." He
was questioned again on April 20, and at once said, .. That's going on
all right; twenty-five days"; and on April 22, when in the trance, he
spontaneously recalled the subject, and added, "Twenty-seven days."
After he was woke on April 18, I asked him if he knew the gentleman
in question, or had been thinking about him. He was clearly surprised
at the question, said he fancied he had once seen him in my room
(which, however, was not the case), and that the idea of him had never
since crossed his mind.
But there is another way in which the moment for the performance
of the action can be fixed. The" subject" can be told to perform it
when some signal is given-as when someone gives a cough, or pokes
the fire. Now here again we might perhaps conceive that the organism
sets itself for the receipt of the signal, just as it has been supposed to
set itself for the expiration of a certain period of time; and that the
signal touches the trigger, so to speak, and lets oft" the associated
action, without any psychical expectancy being involved, and, it
may be, without any consciousness of what is done. But we
can arrange the conditions in such a way as again to involve
reckoning of a certain kind, and of a kind which it is hard to conceive
as having no mentation of any sort associated with it. For instance,
the direction may be to perform the act when someone coughs for the
third time, or pokes the fire for the fourth time. The first cough
comes; it does not release the trigger, but its occurrence is somehow
marked. The second cough in like manner does not release the trigger;
but it is not only marked, but is somehow related to the former one.
And when the third cough comes, the trigger is released not merely by
the sound of it, but by that sound as related to the two previous ones.
I would not venture to assert II priori that all this reckoning cannot be
of a purely physiological kind, though I think that the presumption
would be the other way. But again experiment comes to our aid. If
the" subject" be re-hypnotised before the final cough-say the fourth
-has been given, and questioned as to what has passed, he showl
clearly that he remembers being in the attitude of expectancy for the
coming signal. Sometimes the hidden mental condition during the
time of waiting, has been a very curious one. Thus W--s, who had
been told that at my fifth cough the candles would go out, then woke,
and then hypnotised again before the final cough had been given, dis-
owned all memory of the four coughs which had been actually given, but
knew that the next would be the fifth, " because then the candles would
go out." At other times the signals have been clearly and correctly
counted; and the memory of them on re-hypnotisation is certainly no~
the mere memory of observations made by the normal waking
consciousness; since sounds or movements of which the "~l.Jj~ct't"
Digitized by ~8 e
292 Peculiarities of Certain P08t-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
normal consciousness takes no heed as they occur, and of which his
waking self, when interrogated, can give no account~ equa.lly serve the
purpose of signals, and are shown by the answers given in trance to
have been duly reckoned. Thus when the signal ha.s been one of a
series of usual and unimpressive actions, such as coughs or pokings of
the fire in winter, I have several times, while the series was in progress
but before the critical point was reached, asked the "subject" if he
had noticed that I had a cough, or if he could tell me how often I have
poked the fire, and have been answered in the negative.
It is easy to superpose one series of signals on another. Thus, W--s
was hypnotised, and told to wind up a ball of string when I coughed
for the third time. Another experiment followed, IUld then he was told
that, when I poked the fire, he was to sort a pack of cards, and put all
the diamonds together. Again an experiment of a diiferent kind
followed, after which he was woke. I gave two coughs, and then, com-
pletely forgetting the command relating to the fire, I poked that
element. W- s seized the cards, and in a few moments I perceived how
matters stood. I therefore gave my third cough, when he at once put
down the cards, and asked for some string. I said I had none;
whereupon he got up to look, found the string, and began winding it,
having first repossessed himself of the cards. When the winding was
completed, he took the cards and sorted out the diamonds.1 Another
time, P--ll was given 6 orders, each of which was to be fulfilled
at an &8Bigned point in one of 6 different series of signals. This
however proved rather beyond his capacity; all the things were
done, but only two immediately on the right signal, three othera
following their signals by a considerable interval, and one being done
at S.'s eighth cough instead of at his sixth. It would be interesting
to discover with a well-educated "subject" to what extent parallel
series of signals of this sort could be multiplied, without confusion
ensuing. If it proved to equal or exceed the extent of his normal capacity,
his subsequent hypnotic memory might afford even stronger demonstra-
tion as to the psychical nature of the reckoning; as he might be able to
describe the relations between the series, and his mode of keeping them
distinct.
IV.
VARIOUS EXHIBITIONS OF SECONDARY INTELLIGENCE.
The experiments which follow are of a more novel kind. Though
tame and rudimentary enough, compared with the only hitherto-
1 In this case it proved impossible to recall to his memory, during the
fulfilment of the commands,even quite recent imprellllioDS belonging to the time
of trance: and there was DODO of that change of physiognomy which was I!()
marked in the case where that experiment succeeded (p. 274).
Digi
1387.] Peculiarities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 293
recorded case to which they seem at all akin-the dramatic self-duplica-
tion of Prof. Janet's patient (pp. 237-45)-they present at anyratethia
advantage, that they had no connection with hysterical conditions, but
were conducted with normal healthy" subjects"; and can therefore be
repeated and extended without fear of a disappearance like Adrienne's.
Their results form a yet further stage in the history of the post-hypnotic
development of hypnotic impressions. They present once more the
phenomena of intelligent automatism, like the hand-conversations of
§ II.; and they illustrate the latent rec~oning of time, and observation
of signals, like the cases of § III.; but they exhibit in a more direct
aud conspicuous way than either a secondal·y memory and secondary
play of mind in the post-hypnotic state, and the severance of the
norm," or primary from the latent or secondary consciousness. In
the hand·conversations, we have no reason to suppose this severance
to have been complete. In P--ll's mind my questions and 8.'.
remarks were certain!y present together, on the same plane of
consciousness; and as regards 8--t, though the point needs further
trials, my belief is that, if asked by 8. what I had said immediately
after one of my questions, he also would have been able to reply. In
the cases which follow, the secondary "self" took its own course,
in such complete independence of what passed during its latent period,
while the primary "self" was ostensibly in possession of the field,
that external impressions then received passed unregarded, and there
was no moment at which the doings of the two selves were juxtaposed
or associated in normal consciousness. Again, as regards the hidden
processes of mentation during the period preceding the fulfilment
of a command, our evidence so far has been derived from the state-
ments made by the "subject" when once more in a state of trance.
But we shall now be able to ascertain the workings of this secondary
consciousness in the reckoning of time and signals, without any previous
calling of it to the front by re.hypnotisation; its work is not only done,
but tested, while the normal self remains uninterruptedly in the
ascendent, and shows absolutely no sign of change. And yet again,
we shall now'find manifestations of other sorts of reflection and
calculation, which go considerably beyond mere temporal me&llurements
in the degree of hidden psychical activity which they involve. The-
medium of all these further results is no other than our old friend,
planchette-that delicate little recorder of which it will soon, I believe,
be said, with even more truth and point than of the astrologer'S charts
or the alchemist's crucibles and re-agents, that Time's revenges have
turned the blindly-handled tool of superstition into the indispensable
instrument of science.
I will begin with the simpler cases, which involved memory, but not
independent thought. On March 16th I showed P-.-.ll a v1anch~
Digitized by ~0081e
294 Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23.
-he had ne\"er seen or touched one before~nd got him to write his
name with it. He was then hypnotised, and told that it had been as
dark as night in London on the previous day, and that he would be able
to write what he had heard. He was woke, and as usual was offered
a 80vereign to say what it was that he had been told. He was
then placed with his hand on the planchette, a large screen being held
in front of his face, 80 that it was impos'lible for him to see the paper
or instrument. In lASS thllon a minlltA t.he writing began. The words
were,
It WtJ8 tJ do.r1c day in London yuUrday.
He professed, as did all the "subjects" on every occasion, complete
ignorance as to what he had written; and I believe with perfect
truth. I repeatedly expressed a desire to know, and offered the
80vereign if they would tell me j but their account was always that the
instrument took their hand with it, and that they could not detect
what letters it formed. They showed no curiosity in the matter, and
I did not urge them to try to interpret the movements, which, no
doubt, could be done with practice.
In the next experiment the statement impressed on the "Rubject ..
was, "There were six inches of snow in London this morning" j but
nothing was said to him as to subsequently writing it. The writing,
however, appeared as before, "There was 6 inches of snow." and then
an illegible jumble of lines MUsed by the pencil going over the same
spot again and again, instead of progressing from left to right. I
observed this, but up to this point I did not watch thE! process of
writing~ rule which I observed in nearly all Ca8f'B. P--ll WAS
then re-hypnotiaed, and S. said to him several times, emphatically,
"P--ll, John Jones is coming." He was so deeply entranced that
he showed no sign of even hearing. The planchette reproduced the
whole remark,
P--ll, John Jorw is coming.
The next statement was" Robert Brown has gone." Being roused a
little, P--ll remarked, .. He must go, then; he needn't wait for me."
When completely woke, he was, as usual, offered the sovereign to repeat
what he had been told. The planchet.te at once produced the words.
Then followed a curious example of the reality of hypnotic ra.pport.
In the trance P--ll is sometimes able to hear me, as well as S. j I
therefore made the next statement myself-" There is a high tide to-
night "-to which he replied, "I thought it was a low one," proving
that he hlUl heard and understood. He is now placed before the planchette
as before, but no writing occurs, and he says his hand feels no impulae to
move. The same process is repeated with the same result. Tbinking
that the failure might be due to my having disturbed his condition b1
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculia,ritia of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 295
making passes with a view to waking him, before S. did so, I repeated
the experiment without this ineffectual interference; still no writing.
S. now made the statements, "There will be a very high tide to-night,"
and, " In one minute from now you will wake"--adding that he would be
able to write; and then left the room. In about a minute P--ll
emerged into an odd state in which he would not answer me, or take
any notice of me when I touched him. He got up spontaneously, walked
to the planchette, put his hand on it, and wrote as in a kind of dream,
There kill tJ going 10 be tJ Higk tide.
He returned to the sofa, and sat without moving, with open eyes.
When S. returned, and roused him a little, he deni~ writing, and
seemed unaware of having done anything. Re-hypnotised and ques-
tioned, he remembered writing about a high tide, and said that he did
it to remind himself of it.
S. now told him that I was going to tell him something, and that
he WIlB to wake in a minute and write it; and then left the room. I
told him, " It is a good year for salmon." In about a minllte p--n
woke after a fashion, and sat with open eyes, and his hands on his knees,
using gestures as if trying to recollect something. I recalled
S., who woke him thoroughly, and he laid his hand on the planchette.
I failed at first sight to decipher the writing, and asked that it should
be repeated. But the instrument did not move, and P--ll said that
he felt no tendency towards movement. Here, we may observe, is an
indication that the secondary (writing) self 1 had a purely transient
existence. A" subject" who is in any state in which he can 'lNJ'l"btJUy
tell one something that he has heard in the trance, could always be
made to repeat his words. But here the" subject," whose hand wrote
he knew not what, was completely himself; he had not suffered the
very slightest relapse towards a trance-waking state; and there was no
way of getting. through his ears, at his secondary intelligence, which,
having performed its task, had probably lapsed beyond recall.
Fortunately its aid could be dispensed with, as on examining the
writing again, I had no difficulty in making out,
Write Mr. Gum6'lJ .ometki",,!/-
a crowning instance of the special rtJPPort with the operator, since the
reproduction was of S.'s preliminary direction, and not of the remark
of mine which it was the precise object of that direction to get
reproduced.
1 The word "aelf" is too convenient to be dispensed with, but must not be
misunderstood. In luch C8888 88 these, the "aeeondary aeIf" is a mere rudi·
ment of a personality: it is no more than a short connected train of intelligence
of whoae activities and products the normal self is unaware.
Digitized by Coogle
296 PectWi.aritieB of Certain Post-H'!fJYfItOf,ic State8. [April 23,
Throughout these and subsequent trials, P--ll described the
sensation in his hand and arm, which accompanied the writing, as very
peculiarand disagreeable-as like" pins and needles," and" galvanic
shocks," He certainly suffered considerably, and conceived a strong
aversion to the instrument.
The experiments with W- s began in a very similar way; bot the
first results were more striking, as no direction as to writing was given
him in the trance. He was emphatically told, .. George Robinson is
dead," was woke, offered a sovereign if he could repeat what he had
been told, and then placed with his hand on planchette, the screen
being held as usual between his eyes and the paper. Almost at once the
words George Robinson were written. W-s, like P--ll, described
a curious sensation in the right arm (which, however, in his case WI\S
less distressing), and also the way in which the instrument seemed to
take his hand with it. Re-hypnotised, he was told "Timothy Stokes
has died." He was amused at this, and said that if he had such a
name he would change it.' He was woke, to the usual oblivion; but
the planchette under his hand socn produced the complete sentence.
He was then re.hypnotised, and asked what he had writt6n. He said,
.. W-s." That was a reminiscence of his having been made to write
his name when he came in, to teach him how to hold his hand on the
instrument. He remembered having subsequently had his hand on it,
and that it had moved; but that was all. This result was exceptional;
on re-hypnotisation, the .. subject" could as a rule repeat, either
perfectly or approximately, what he had written.
In other results, which were failures in relation to what was
intended, the reproduction was of just the same type. Thus P--ll,
after being told in the trance to count the number of letters in" A
rolling stone gathers no moss," and then instantly woke, simply
wrote,
.A rolling ,tone 1161761' qatker. no moB••
Told that he was to poke the fire in 6 minutes, and that I should
want to know how the time was going, without any directions as to
writing, he wrote, soon after waking,
P--ll will you poke the fire in 6 minuett..
As a rule, the writing was legible, uninterrupted, and correct,
or contained only such mistakes as the .. subject's" normal writing
might show; and his manner and conversation meanwhile were
wholly free and unconcerned. It is important to observe how
distinct the difference is here from the cases above described of
post-hypnotic fulfilment of commands--even from those when the
deviation from normality was the slightest. Not only does the
" subject" show none of that absorption with h~ work1 or im-
Digitized by ~008 e
1887.] Peculiaritie8 of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 297
patience of interference, which we observed in many of the cases
when ha was fully conscious of his proceedings-e.g., when he was
sorting cards or winding up a ball of string j but he equally lacked the
sense of impulse or desire which prompted and accompanied the
performance of normal-seeming acts (p. 270). When his hand was
actually laid on the planchette, there was a sort of physical impulsion,
which he described as seeming to cODle rather from the instrument than
from himself j but if his hand was removed, there was no desire to
replace it, or to get the writing produced. Each of the "subjects."
P--ll especially, would have gladly been excused the proces~. This
is just what we might expect, on the view of that more complete segrega-
tion of states of which I have spoken. The normal self has here beeu from
the first, so to speak, relieved of all responsibility j no attention and no
volition on its part had to come into play, the secondary consciousness
being wholly adequate to what was required. No doubt a definite
command, impressed on the hypnotic state, to write something with the
planchette at a. given time or signal, might be obeyed in the· same way,
and under the same mental conditions, as the sorting of the cards or the
winding of the string-as in the case above given, in which P--ll
wrote about lfue high tide. But the rule was that the hypnotic
impression should be given in a different way from this. Either no
direction to write was given at all, or the direction was put
hypothetically-as, if I required to know something afterwards, it was
to be written for me. The consequence was that the" subject" never
went to the planchette of his own accord; it had no interest for him.
In the former cases, when he did not see the cards or the string or
whatever he was to manipulate, he would ask for them, or look for
them till he found them. With the planchette, on the contrary, there
was no ma.nifestation of anything in his mind, or of any impulse that
needed a vent, till his hand was actually placed on the instrument at
my desire; after which the secondary consciousness took undivided
charge of the results.
I will give a few more instances where no suggestion of any sort
was made about writing, and where the only difference between
the statement made to the" subject," and any other that might be made
to him during trance, consisted in some amount of repetition of it. On
March 18th, W-s (who is a baker) was told, with considerable insist-
ance, "The baking trade is failing." He was then woke, and departed.
As soon as he arrived next day, he was set down to the planchette.
Several minutes elapsed, and then the instrument slowly produced the
words,
Tl/,6 baking trade is jailing.
There seems to have been some very slight emergence of the idea.
into his normal consciousness; as, while the writing was proceed-
Digi
298 Peculiaritiu of Oertain Post-H'Y'J!1Wtic States. [April 23,
ing, he said that someone seemed to be " holloaing" in his ear
something-be could not make out wha~bout tbe baking trade.
But he was quite unaware of what his hand had produced, and
even when re-hypnotised, he could not at first be sure whether he
had written the words, or whether S. had "holloaed" them at.
him. After a time, however, he remembered, and described the
writing, whicb had been very irregular as to the arrangement of lines,1
exactly as if he had it before him. He said, "Yes, I see tIM .. but it
ain't like my writing, it looks like a little youngster's. Look wbere's he
got to." (This was accompanied by appropriate movements of his
finger on the table at his side.) "The baking t in a line, then r a de"
(pointing far to the left on a lower level). .. And what's that acribbly
thing t Then he jumps from here right up to the top--U failing "
(pointing above the level which he had indicated as that of the first line).
As he had not had the slightest glimpse of the actual ~ting, this
seemed a good instance of tbat remarkable delicacy of muacular
perception which is so characteristic of hypnotic "subjectstt and
somnambulists. Clairooyancs was out of the question, as I proved by
testing him in other cases where he professed (as hypnotised persona 80
often do) to Bee things which were out of the range of his normal
vision.
Once more, in the course of an experiment on the stages of memory
(see my subsequent paper) P--ll had got a confusion into his head
about a whale in a green tank at the Aquarium, and a swimming
entertainment given by Miss Webb on the pier. Another experiment
intervened, and he was then put down to the planchette. I did not
expect him to write anything, and had no idea what memory, if any,
would be in the ascendant. In a few moments the words appeared,
P--ll did you ,ee that whale and MiB, Webb AiB a-going to
give entertainment on the pier and that gr66n tank.
On the same day he wrote, equally unexpectedly,
P--ll did you hear of that dog fight along tIM King'H"Oad UuJ
other day it WaB a alful Bight I can tell you.
This last writing, it is true, was produced while he was in the
hypnotic state; but it still deserves attention. For since my " subjects "
had throughout conformed to the usual rule in never volunteering -tJOllen
remarks relating to anything that had previously been impressed on
them, the planchette seemed here once more to open up to us more
withdrawn mental processes than any which other means could
1 This was due to the fact that the sheet of paper used wu inconveniently
arnall, and had to be shifted several times to prevent the pencil from getting
08' i~
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculia1ities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 299
reveal,l This appears still more clearly in the next case, which is of
special interest.
I was expeJimenting with W--s on the abnormality of state pro-
duced during the fulfilment of a previous hypnotic command (pp. 273-4).
At the right signal, he seized a pack of cards and began his task, which
was to arrange them in suits. I found that he could now remember a
Dumber of things of which he was ignorant in his normal state; and
I therefore thought it a good opportunity to try whether a hallucination
could be suddenly imposed on him. At my request, S. tells him that
S--t bas entered the room. He looks up aDd says, .. Ah, S--t, sit
down," and addresses S-t several times, while continuing to sort the
cards. He is now taken to the planchette. He calls the imaginary
S--t to come and sit beside him, places a chair for him, patronises
him, and says he will write his name. He then writes, very rapidly,
Cards are all so'reed.
He was repeatedly asked what he had written, as at first I could
not make it out, and he answered repeatedly, "Sort W." The
word .. sorted" on the last piece of paper used closely resembled
this. Still questioned, he said he had written S-t's name, and
pointing to the word "Cards," he spelt out S-_t.1 He was now
roused into normality, and at once hypnotised again. Asked what he
had written, he instantly replied, co Cards are all sorted." Here, then,
we have the spontaneous action of the secondary consciousness, giving
information as to the execution of the order, while the self which was
connected with the superimposed hallucination had a quite separate idea.
Without the aid of the planchette, we should never have been able to
get a glimpse beyond the hallucinated state, which had itself carried the
deviation from normality to the point of completely developed trance.
Throughout this section I have been speaking of the secondary
processes as intelligtmt-as involving mentation. Let us now examine
for a moment how far this view of them is justified. How far might
the results be attributed to a purely physiological or unconscious
1 On two subsequent occasions, however, P-ll did spontaneously speak
of somo of these previous lIypnotic impresaions-earrying his confusion further,
and remarking on the oddity of a green whale. The connection of She dog-
fight with the King's Road (the locality which properly belonged to the balloon
incident) was an instance of the fusion of the two stages of memory aftf!r a
conaiderable time.
S There is nothing very extraordinary in this; compare the case described
by MM. Binet and FtSre (LII Magnitimu Animal, p. 178), where the hallucina-
tion of a portrait was imposed on what WD.II really a photograph of a view in the
Pyrenees, and where it was impossiblo to make the " subject" perceive that the
contours were really those of mountain scenery; for her, there was simply the
portrait and nothing else. The only difference in W-S'& case was that the
speciaJ hallucination of the writing had not been suggested to him by someone
else, but was his own development of the suggested hallucination. G I
Digitized by oog e
300 Peculiarities of Vertain POIJt-Hypnotic 8taia. [April 23.
memory t In the cases where the idea of a future writing was conveyed
to the" subject" at the same time that the statement was made, one
might recur to the old hypothesis of a "setting of the organism," and
&\n exclusively automatic performance. The hypothesis presents more
difficulty, perhaps, in respect of the cases where no mention of writing
had been made, and where consequently there could haye been no regis-
tration in the " subject's" organism of the idea of future manifestation
in connection with the special idea impressed on him. The impression. for
instance, of the whale and Mias Webb was made without a hint as to
the future-without the slightest suggestion that it either must or
could or would work out any ostensible result to the end of time. Yet
a manifest result emerges, in the midst of quite irrelevant surround-
ings and experiences, as soon as the opportunity of "automatic"
representation is given. Here the organism cannot have been specially
set for the effect. If the action was completely automatic, we should at
any rate have to attribute to hypnotic inlpressions a very singular
peculia.rity-that of storing up energy in the brain which will
mechanically work outwards along the motor nerves, as soon as the
means are presented whereby the act of writing is made sufficiently
easy for the muscles. But the really strong argument for mentation
of a sort is the old fact, the memory on re-hypnotisation. The
.. subjllct" then remembers what he has written, and remembers
the writing of those particular words-not merely the general act of
writing, and not meJ'\jly the impressed formula. This is surely a strong
indication that the writing WM accompanied by intelligent apprehen-
siol1 of the words.
Now at this point the question cannot but occur, what light do
such results throw on the nature of "intelligent automatism" in
general! In the well-known cases where planchette-writers have
produced words and sentences which were at first a puzzle to themselves,
but which, when deciphered, proved to have a meaning,l it has never
ueeu possible to ascertain how far the process was purely physiological
and unconscious, and how far it might have a truly psychical character.
Now the above experiments at any rate afford strong support to
the view that a great deal of planchette-writiug, and of other
forms of intelligent automatism, however much severed from normal
consciousness, is nevertheless accompanied hy true psychosis. It
would be extremely interesting, if the opportunity ever offered, to
try the effect of hypnotisation on some "automatic" writer before he
had deciphered or realised what his hand had produced; and we might
be quite prepared to find that in the trance he would be able to inform
us what the writing was.
There is, no doubt, a difference between such an experiment and
J See, e.g., the caaes cited by Mr. Myers, Procudina8rVnJrl)Jf.ePP, 26,37.
Dlgltlzed!'iy uOV(S1
1887.] Peculiaritiea of Certain P08t-Hypnotic Statea. 301
the post-hypnotic cases above described, which prevents us from
predicting with certainty that the results would be similar. For the
memory of the post-hypnotic writing may have been stimulated and
aided by the memory, which would naturally recur on re-hypnotisation,
of the previous hypnotic impression; and, moreover, it may quite
well be that hypnotisation, though it brings to the front the memory
belonging to a train of secondary intelligence which was it&elf Bet
going in hypnotic trance, might not have the same effect in other
cases. But the general fact remains that it is possible for writing
to be discerned and understood, in spite of the normal self's
complete unawareness of it; and there seems no ground whatever
for confining this possibility to cases where the content of the
writing has first entered the mind during the hypnotic trance.
The hypnotic remembrance supplies the subsequent test, but the
writing is not produced in the hypnotic state; and the probability
therefore is that the conditions of the writinl( are general, and have no
special peculiarities connected with hypnotisol. So far as discernment
of the writing is concerned, we are justified in surmising that post-
hypnotic and ordinary "automatic" scripts are on a par.
But there is a further point. There are cases where the words and
sentences produced by planchette-writers have proved to be revivals of
latent or forgotten knowledge, connected perhaps with some far-distant
period of life; that is to say, the result distinctly implies me'TTW't"'!I.1
1 The record8 of 8ucb CMe8 are tolerably numerous; but the subject has
probably not yet got beyond the stage when every piece uf authentic evidence
hAIl a certain value. I venture, therefore, to record the following experience,
which made a very deep impression on me, being in fact my introductiun to
.. psychical research." In 1870, I watched and took part in a good deal of
planchette,writing, but not with r8IIults or under conditions that afforded
proof of any separate intelligence. However, I was sufficiently struck by what
occurred to broach the "ubject to a hard·headed mathematical friend, who
expressed complete incredulity as to the possibility of obtaining rational
writing, except through the conscious operation of IOOme person in contact with
the instrument. After a long argument, he at last agreed to make a trial. I
had not really the faintest hope of succesa, and he was committed to the
position that success was impOllllible. We sat for some minutes with a hand
of each on the planchette, and- asked that it should write some line of
Shakespeare. It began by see·sawing and producing a great deal of formless
scribble; but then there seemed to be more method in the movements, and a
line of hieroglyphics appeared. It took U8 some time to make it out, the
writing being illegible to just that degree .which at. first baffles the reader, but
which afterwards leaves no more doubt as to its having been correctly
deciphered than if it were print. And there the line indubitably atood-A little
more than kin and Ius than kind. Now, as neither of us bad been thinking of
this line, or of any lille (for we had been wholly occupied with the IItraggling
movements of the instrument,) the result, though not demonstrative, is at any
rate strongly suggestive of a true underground psychosis. For it would be hard
to believe that we got what we asked for through mere cerebral ~iationpf
Digitized by ~008le
302 Peculiarities of Certain Post-HYlfflotic States. [April 23,
Now, what is the nature of this memory! It might be of a purely
physiological and unconscious kind, even though the content of the
writing W&8 shown by subsequent remembrance in trance to have been
intelligently discerned j for the intelligent discernment of the content
does not in itself imply more than what occurs when we look over some
one else's shoulder, and follow the words that he is writing j that is to
say, the words might be intelligently read, though wholly mechanically
"nUm.l What one wanta to know is whether something beyond this
is involved-whether the idea which the writing conveys presented
itself to the secondary self as a mental experience, prior to and apart
from the writing, just as memories, often long-buried memories, are
liable to present themselves on the ordinary mental stage. Do our
post-hypnotic results suggest any answer to this question f The
majority of those so far recounted must be allowed, I think, to be
compatible with the hypothesis of a purely organic or non-psychical
memory. P--ll's reproductions of statements in the exact form in
which they had been made to him, commencing with his own name in
the vocative, have every appearance of mere unintelligent echoes; and
it is difficult to see how any scripts which simply reproduced statements
previously heard, could be decisive as to anything beyond this. One
or two of my C&Ses do, however, indicate something beyond. Thus
P--ll W&8 told, in the trance, to count the number of letters in
the lines, "When the day is over, And the night is drawing nigh,"
and was then immediately woke. The planchette produced, under his
hand, not the number of the letters, but the line
When II eM day over.
This was a failure, then, as regards the result sought, and at first sight
ideas. The 8IIIIOciation of this verse with the idea of Shakespeare is com-
paratively a loose one--decidedly looser, for instance, than its association with
the idea of Hamlet, though closer than its &II8OCiation with the idea of English
literature. That is to say, a search and a selection were made, in conformity
with an intelligent requirement. H anyone would confidently asaign such
operations to the domain of .. unconscions cerebration," it would be interesting
to know where he would draw the line. II there any intelligent result of which
be would regard psychosis as a condition? It is worth adding that, if the
psychical character of .. intelligent automatism " is ever made clear, there will
be ground for suspecting a psychical side to all the supposed feats of
.. unconscious cerebration "-e.g., where the correct solution of a problem baa
seemed suddenly to occur in dream.
1 It is worth noting, however, that in a case where I had guided W__'s
hand to write some words with the planchette, with thescreen as usual betweeD
his eyea and the paper, be said, when afterwards hypnotised, that I had written
aomething which he coula1Wt read, though he had Been it (p. 298). That is, the
muscular sight did not involve comprehension when the writing was indis·
putably meclll~nical.
I The only clear points in this word are the wand the tall stroke of the A.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Oertain P08t-H'!fP'1Wtic Statu. 303
looked like a merely mechanical reproduction; but it was observable
that, when re-hypnotised and asked what he had been doing, he did not
simply quote the words he had written, but said, "Trying to make a
little hymn--a little verse," which looks like memory of a real psychical
operation. Again, the case of Garda are all 80rted strongly
suggests intelligent memory, if it does not actually prove it; for
no such phrase had been used in the "subject's" hearing, nor had
any suggestion of writing been made in connection with the cards-
the experiment having been undertaken for another purpose. It may
be hoped that repeated trials may yield further instances of these self-
originated remarks. There would be some advantage in their ex-
clusively referring-as I think would prove to be the rule-to things
connected with previous times of hypnotic trance. For it is just the
unlimited range of topics open to the ordinary non-hypnotic "auto-
matist" which often make his scripts uninstructive as to the degree
of reminiscence and representation that may be going on in those
mental strata which, it seems, we must unlearn the habit of calling
unconscious. His secondary intelligence is prone,as Mr. Myers has said,
to be a "sermonising entity"; and we want not sermons, but autobio-
graphy. Now the post-hypnotic intelligence evoked during hypnotic
trance, if akin to that exhibited in the trance itself, will rarely have
spontaneity enough to sermonise; where it takes its own line, its
tendency will be to run in old grooves; and this fact, combined with
the fact that the grooves of previous hypnotic experiences are com-
paratively few and narrow, might, as time went on, afford exceptional
opportunities for testing the coherence of secondary memory during
normal life.
Meanwhile I have some further results, superior in interest to any
of the preceding, as tending to show that the a.ctivities of these hidden
stra~ may include higher psychical functions than mere random spurts
of memory-processes of deliberate reckoning andre1lection which it is
almost impossible to conceive as having only a physiological existence.
Advantage was taken of the fact that the hypnotised" subject" could
be woke in an instant, by a clap on the shoulders and a loud call. Thus
questions could be put a.nd problems suggested to him, while in trance,
antI all of a sudden there he was in his normal waking state, without a
second's interval having been allowed for his hypnotic consciousness to
work out the answer. The questions and problems varied in difficulty.
One of the simplest was, "What puts out fire 1" This was addressed
by S. to W-s, who was then instantly woke. Set to the planchette,
his hand at once wrote, Water. We may, perhaps, suppose that so
obvious and direct an answer as this might have formed itself in his
mind even in the fraction of a second; so tliat the writing might be
explained as the mere letting off of the spring that had been '¥QUIld up
Digitized by ~008Ie
304 Peculia7"ii'i~ of Certain Post-Hypnot·ic States. [April 23,
before his condition was changed. The same could hardly be said of
the results which follow.
W- s was told in the trance to add together all the digits from 1 to
9, and was immediately woke. Set to planchette, his hand after some
seconds produced the number 32. This is of course quite wt:ong, and
implies no calculation; but the guess is not a worse one than I find
many people give, if requested to give their impression-after a few
seconds of reflection-of what the sum amounts to. The experiment
was now repeated, the direction to sum the digits being given,
and the "subject" awakened on the instant. He was set to the
planchette, which at once began to move. As usual, I was careful
not to attempt to read while the writing was going on; but I became
aware that it was proceeding downwards on the paper, instead of
from left to right; and thinking that the result of this would be
an illegible scribble, I requested W- s to keep the movement, if he
could, in a left-to-right line. A certain difficulty seemed to ensue,
and on looking at the paper, I found that it contained the digits
arranged thus ;-
1
2
3
4
5 6
the position of the 5 and 6 being due to W--s's conscious interference
with the downward tendency of his hand. There had been the custom-
ary screen between his eyes and the paper, and he had no idea. what
had occurred. I now placed the instrument, with his hand upon it, on
a fresh sheet of paper of more convenient shape, expecting the sum to
be recommenced; but the writing continued, .
7
8
9
44
The actual sum of the nine digits is 45; but a person would not be
likely to arrive at so close an approximation who had not, in part at
any rate, gone through the calculation. This was one of the few cases
where the "subject," on re-hypnotisation, had no recollection of what
he had written, or even of having written at all ; 80 that that important
test of psychical, as distinct from purely automatic, activity was here
lacking. I regret that it did not occur to me to act on my
knowledge of the different stages of hypnotic memory, and to try
whether the memory did not recur in the deeper stage (see my subse-
quent paper). But it must be observed that the memory-test has
izedbyGoogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 305
positive, but not negative validity; its SUCceBB may amount to a
proof that psychical activity was present, but its failure is no sufficient
proof of the contrary.
W-s was now told to multiply 324 by 12, and at once
awakened. The planchette produced the sum as follows :-
324
12
4008
This result, though incorrect, would be correct if the firstnumber was
3S4. Anyone is liable to such a mistake as this; so th"t here again there
is reason to suppose a genuine proceaa of reckoning; but unfortunately
time failed us to apply the memory-test after this experiment. Another
day, W__ was told to add together 5, 6, 8, 9, and had just had time to
say 5, as though he were going to repeat the figures, when he was woke
in the fraction of a second with the word on his lips. The planchette
immediately produced 28 (right). He was told to add together I, 2, 5,
7,8, and instantly awakened. The planchette wrote 23 (right).
The experiment in the summation of the nine digits being repeated
with P--ll, the first result was 39; the second 45 (right). Re-hyp-
notiaed and asked by S. what he had been writing, he said, "You told
me to add the figures 1-9,-45." "Did you write it 1" "Yes, I wrote
it down." "When did you add them'" " When you told me. I think
that's right." He added the figures up again, half audibly, and ended
by saying, "45; right." This addition occupied many more seconds than
the interval between the original order and the waking previous to
writing. He was told to add together 3, 4, 6, 7, and was woke with-
out a. second's pause. The writing that appeared was 20 (right). Re-
hypnotised and questioned, he said he had written 20.
Similar experiments with S-t succeeded equally. The first
result obtained was exceptional. He was told to add together
3, 4, 7, 8, 9, and was instantly roused with a clap and call. The
correct answer, 31, was apoke1&, immediately after the rousing, and
within three seconds of the conclusion of the order; but he clearly had
not been brought to a normal waking state. In the subsequent triala
complete waking, the instant after the order, was ensured by more
vigorous means. He was told to add together 4, 7, 8, 11, 12, and was
woke on the instant; the written result was 42 (right). He was told
to add together 2, 7, 9, 12, 13, and was woke on the instaut; the wri.ten
result was 43 (right). He was told to multiply 683 by 7, and was
woke on the instant. He was kept talking, while his hand wrote 468l.
On re-hypnotisation, he remembered writing this, but said he believed it
was wrong-the 6 should be 7. He was told to multiply 534 by 3, and was
woke on the instant; the result, written with extraordinary ranid~A~nde
Digitized by'\J~61€ ..
306 Pecul:ia1-ities 01 Certain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23.
concluded within three seconds ofthe conclusion of the order, was 1602
(right). Theae results are the more noticeable in that S-t is not by
any means a ready reckoner. I found, for instance, that in the norma.!
state it took him about ten seconds to do each of the two last
addition sums. On S-t, alone ofthe "subjects," the writing hAd some-
times the effect of re-inducing a trance condition; and in one of the SUBl-
eases the mere sense of having the sum to do seemed to have the same
effect. He was told to multiply 358 by 9, and was instantly woke and
made to read aloud, whieh he did excellently for some time ; but on my
taking the book away, he fell into trance and in that state wrote 3222
(right).
The following trials were of a somewhat similar type. P--ll was
told to write the alphabet, beginning at the 16th letter. Awakenedon
the instant, he wrote STU V W X Y Z. Here was a failure; but
the interest of the experiment appeared on re-hypnotiaation of the
"subject," when he seemed clearly to remember the mental effor' to
discover the right letter, and excused his mistake by saying that" that
image was there again" (see p. 319). He was told to add up the letters
in the two lines, "How doth the little busy bee Improve each shining
hour," and was woke in about five seconds. The writing produced was
43, which is approximately correct, the real total being 45. Another
day, S-t was asked how many times the letter e occurs in the same
two lines, and was woke on the instant. The figure 6 (right) was
produced; and on re-hypnotiaation he remembered having written it.
Most people, I think, would require as many &8 10 seconds to arrive
at the correct answer; so that it seems almost certain that the
calculation was performed after the waking.
Another form of trial was the writing of the letters of words and
phrases in reverse order--a. process which, for an unpr&etised person.
undoubtedly requires some amount of conscious reflection. W--s
having been told to write "elephant" backwards, and instantly woke,
the planchette produced Tneplie. This is a nearer approximation than
at first sight appears, since his hypnotic idea of the real spelling of the
word proved to be " eliphent "; 80 that the planchette's only mistakes
were the I and i unreversed, and the h omitted. He was told to write
backwards "I bake good fancy bread," and was instantly woke. The
planchette moved to the right of the paper, and wrote
I bake god Janky 1 bred
from right to left, beginning with the last letter. Told to write
"Brighton" backwards, and instantly woke, he produced nothgirB
(right). P--ll was told to write "millinery" backwards, and was
1 The letter y is uncertain. G I
Digitized by oog e
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain P08t-Hypnotic States. 307
instantly woke: the result was gnirellim. Re-hypnotised and asked
what he had written, he said cc millering," but added, cc gni is wrong
-ing is wrong." He was told to write cc To-morrow is Sunday" back-
wards, and was instantly woke; the result was the phrase correctly
written from right to lef~ beginning with the last letter. Similar
trials were made with S--~ with the word "Brighton," and the
sentence" It has just been raining." Each was correctly produced
by the planchette, from left to righ~ and beginning with the last
letter.
Such trials might be indefinitely extended with "subjeots" who, in
the normal state, were more capable than mine of complex mental
operations. I found myself limited to very simple tests, and could not,
for instance, ask any questions relating to matters of historical or
scientific information. I did, however, make some attempts to obtain
answers to questions of a more general kind, admitting of a choice, with
results which as far as they went were completely successful. Thus,
P--ll was told to write the names of three places beginning with r...,
and was instantly woke; the planchette wrote
L6W68, Lamcalion, LewiBhann,
the second name being interpreted as Lancaster when he was re-
hypnotised. A similar trial with the letter H produced HMti'Tl{!8,
Hamsted, HQ/fU)'I}6f'; trial with the letter T, TO'I'fJ'I'B, TOf"I"ington, Totting-
ham C(Y1't. During the first of these experiments he was engrossed,
during the writing, with the hallucination of a wild ca~l which, on
re-hypnotisation, he said he " hadn't liked the looks of - it looked half-
starved." While writing the T names, he was roaring with laughter
the whole time at the hallucinatory spectacle of a pantomime, and
describing the doings of the clown. On April 18th, a wider field of
choice was given him, in the direction to write down anything that had
happened in Brighton during the past year, after which he was instantly
woke. St't to the planchette, he read aloud a description of a play from
a newspaper; and meanwhile his hand wrote
.A H(Y1'8e Rum away last EMter Monday along the Ki'Tl{! Road.
This was a fac~ and had caused considerable excitement. Again,
he was told to write down the earliest thing he could remember, and
'was instantly woke. He was made to count backwards from a hundred,
which he did slowly and with stumbles; meanwhile his hand wrote,
One day when I whaa goi'Tl{! to achool I whaa goi'Tl{! up the 8treet I
pick up a 8hilli'Tl{! and I gave it to mother and 8he was please with it.
1 With these" subjects," a hallucination canalways be imposed for a short
period after waking,though otherwise they are to all appearance in a completely
normal state. Digitized by ~Or81e
308 Peculiaritie8 of Certain P08t-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
It turned out that this was a real event which had happened when he
was about five years old. Still earlier memories were similarly evoked.
When I had tM Bcarlet jtlVer Borne woman brought me in Borne bulh-
eyu on a piece of paper.
One day wMn I whaa rocking tM cradle with my little brotMr
Charley I turn tM cradle over.
This last occurrence took place when he was about three; he over-
turned the cradle in a passion at the baby's peevishness. Such experi-
ments cannot be too often repeated, with a view to obtaining the record
of sOmething unremembered in the normal state---as in the case of
Adrienne (p. 241).
The direction to "draw what he liked" produced rough sketches
which, on re-hypnotisation, he interpreted as a rifleman, a box, an
egg-cup, a rifle, another rifleman, a pigeon-and which were quite
recognisable; his left hand meanwhile was slowly sorting a pack of
cards into suits. The direction to "write what he liked " elicited a
common-place note to his sweetheart.
Having regard to the subsequent hypnotic memory, I think that
even the above simple and often imperfect writings afford an extremely
strong presumption of an intelligent and not merely mechanical origin.
But the next set of results are perhaps still more conclusive, as they
definitely exclude the hypothesis of a cerebral registration of the correct
answer, arrived at by a preternaturally quick calculation or reminis-
cence in the instant between the comprehension of the order and the
awakening to normal consciousness. The experiments, like some of
those in § IlL, involved the reckoning of time; but their point lay
in the fact that the reckoning was shown, not merely, as before, by the
execution of an order at approximately the right moment, but by
writing produced during the period of waiting, at Borne IJ'IUidenly-selected
moment, which the" subject" could not foresee when the process began
-so that there could be no question of the "setting of the organism"
for a certain time ahead. And a further novel point was the proof
afforded, in some cases, that the order itself was remembered and
realised by the secondary consciousness during the period throughout
which the dominant primary consciousness was wholly without know-
ledge of it.
W- s was hypnotised, and told that in 6 minutes he was to blow
a candle out, and that he would be required, at some time before then,
to write the number of minutes that had passed, and the number that
had still to elapse. He was woke, laughed and talked as usual, and of
course knew nothing of the order. In about 31 minutes, h.
was set down to the planchette, which wrote
41-1 more.
Digi
1887.] Peculiarities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. 309
About a minute passed, and then I requested s. to re-hypnotise him;
butjust as his eyes were beginning to close, he raised himself, and blew
out the candle, saying, "It's beginning to smell." Hypnotised and
questioned, he remembered all that he had done; and when it was
pointed out to him that 4i and 1 do not make 6, he explained the
discrepancy by saying, "It took half a minute for you to tell me; I
reckoned from the end of your telling me." This, of course, does not
expll\in his reckoning the time before he wrote as a minute longer than
it was; but that is not a larger error than anyone of us might commit
in computing such a period.
On March 19th, he was told in the trance that, when he came
next, he was to poke the fire 6 minutes after his arrival, and that
when he wrote he was to record the number of minutes that had run,
and that remained to run. On March 21st he arrived at 6-57i, and I
set him down to the planchette in about a minute. The writing, which
it took about a minute to produce, was
2-3i more.
At 7.3 he said he wanted to poke the fire, and got up and did BO, in
spite of my dissuasion. In the course of re-hypnotisation, he was
asked what he had been doing, and replied, "I had my hand on that
thing," but he could not say what had been written. From former
experience I knew that he was not yet completely entranced, as he was
able to hear and answer me, as well as S. After a few more passes,
when he was deaf to my voice, the question was repeated, and he at
once replied, " Two-three and a-half more." " What did that meant "
.. Two minutes-three and a-half more, poke the fire."
On March 21st, he was told that on the morrow, a quarter of
an hour after his arrival, he was to pull up the blind and look out of the
window. He arrived next evening at 7.10, and was BOon set to the
planchette; but as the instrument did not move he was hypnotised,
told that I wanted to know how the time was going, and immediately
awakened. The writing
7 minutes and 8 more
was now produced. The process began at just 7.17, so that at that
moment the reckoning was exactly right; but, owing to a wheel coming
oft' the instrument and having to be replaced, the writing itself was
spread over four minutes.
The same I.subject" was told on March 23rd that, a quarter of
an hour after his next arrival, he was to open and shut the door
of the room, and to note the course of time, as usual. The next evening
he arrived at7.61. He was set to the planchette at 7.19. The writing,
produced at once, was 13 min. and 2 more. At 7.22 he rose, walked
Digitized by Coogle
310 Peculiarities of Oertain Post-HY'JYMtic Statu. [April 23,
across the room, opened and shut the door, and returned to his seat.
Here the reckoning was not more than half a minute out.
On March 25th, the order was to put his hat on and take it oft'
again 20 mintU88 after his next arrival, and to write as usual. Next
day hearrived at 7.13. After some experiments of a different sort, he
was set to the pla.nchette, and as it did not move, he was hypnotised,
told rapidly to "write as be had been directed," and instantly awakened,
with the words" What last night'" on his lips. This was at 7.31.
The instrument at once wrote,
18 mmutu gons Ii more.
At 7.35, he walked to where his hat lay, put it on, and took it oft' again.
Re-hypnotiaed, and reminded that 18 and Ii do not make 20, he said
that he had allowed half a minute for the writing. It had occupied,
I think, leas than a minute; so that the reckoning was remarkably
correct.
Another time, W--s was told at 7.49 p.m., that he was to put on
his hat in 10 minutes, and that I might want to know, meanwhile,
how the time was paaaing. He was then woke, and was set to the
planchette at 7.50. The writing produced was,
1 min--7* more.
The proceaa was exceptionally slow and difficult, and occupied 2* minutes.
Had it been produced rather more quickly, the second part of this
statement, as well as the first, might have been exactly right; and on
several occasions it was observabll\ that the" subject .. did not seem
properly to realise the length of the time occupied in the actual writing.
At 8 o'clock W--s was obliged to go; but before leaving the room,
he took up his hat, looked at it a little oddly, put it on, and then
quickly took it oft' again, saying, " Needn't put that on up here, need I '/"
There was a point in this case which has a special bearing on that
segregation of conacioUBneaa which all the experiments illustrate; namely,
the difficulty' which the "subject" found, when re-hypnotiaed, in
describing what he had written (cJ. p.298). In no case was the writing
shown to him, but he always spoke as if he actually saw it; and in
this instance, on being asked what it was, he said at first that he could
not make it out. Urged to try, he went on, with breaks and just as a
puzzled person would, "One min- don't understand what the next
letter is. Oh, seven I Why two has got on the other line-Seven
and a-half more." No words could have agreed better with the true
aspect of the script. Now this leads one to observe how the
perception of the actual writing, the ground which in a way is common
to both lIel1J68-as for brevity they may be called-is meted out between
the two. Each seems to regard exactly what the other does not. The
nonnal self perceives that his hand is moving up and down, and hears
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiaritia of Oertain Post-Hyp1Wtic States. 311
the pencil's course over the paper, but would see the straggling marks,
if the screen were not interposed, without any real recognition of his
own handiwork. This self is alive simply to the mechanical part of
the writing.process, and is conscious of distinct and sometimes very
disagreeable physical sensations accompanying it. The secondary self,
on the other hand, never showed that the procus of writing as such,
had had for it any interest, or roused in it any special sensations; and,
as I have said, it seemed unaware of the time that the process occupied.
Its whole interest was in the content-the sense of what was written
and in the appearance of the writing (conjured up by it with such
singular distinctness) so far as that affected legibility. In other
words, the relation of the primary self to the writing was that of a
child whose hand a teacher guides painfully over pot-hooks and
hangers; that of the secondary self was that of an author who some-
times has to regret his own clumsy penmanship.
The next experiment, though partially unsuccessful, is not devoid
of interest. P--ll was told that in 10 minutes he was to draw aside
the blind and look out of the window, and that he was to record how
the time was going, as usual; and was then woke. He was set to the
planchette in about 3 minutes, but nothing followed; he remarked,
" My right hand feels just like my left." (It will be remembered that
this" subject" suffered greatly in the hand and arm during the process
of writing.) He was re-hypnotiaed, and S. said, "Why did you not
write just now1"
P--LL. "Somebody disturbed me. They looked over my shoulder
and made me angry. I don't want everybody to know what I write."
(This may very probably have been a reminiscence of an imaginary
terror on a previous occasion; see p. 319.)
S. "What were you going to write 1"
P--LL. II I was going to write 3 minutes had passed since you
told me to look out of the window, and I was going to write '7 minutes'
afterwards."
The time-reckoning, it will be seen, was correct. But the principal
point to note is the sense of disturbance, with the complete unawareness
of it of the normal self. We may regard such immunity as the converse
of those painful sensations which used not only to accompany but to
precede the writing on other occasions when the secondary self appears
to have worked with comfort and freedom.
The value of P--ll for these experiments was diminished by the
fact that he is by nature a bad reckoner of time. For instance, one
day when he had arrived about five minutes before I entered the room,
be said he thought he had been waiting a quarter of an hour. Still,
considering how much scope there was for going wrong if the secondary
intelligence were merely guessing without reckoning, I think that the
Digitized by Coogle
312 Pecruliaritie8 0/ Certain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
following instances are significant. On April 20th he was told that
half....n-hour after his next arrival he was to wind up a ball of string,
and to let me know how the time was going. He arrived next evening
at 8.30, and was set to the planchette at 8.43. He wrote,
13 mineU has paB8ed and 17 more minett8 to paB8.
Some more experiments followed, and it so happened that at 9, the
exact time ",hen the fulfilment was due, he was in the trance. He
suddenly said, "Oh !" as if recollecting something, but did not move;1
he was then woke, and at 9.2 he walked across the room to where some
string was lying, and wound it up. On April 18th an exact.ly similar
order was given, except that the thing to be done was to take off his
coat. He arrived at 9.10 on April 20th, and was set to the planchette
at 9.U, and while reading a newspaper aloud with intelligence and
complete comprehension, he wrotl',
5 mineU has pall88d 25 minuett 11488 got, paBW and then I sha8 e~
of my coat.
The order, however, was fulfilled at 9.21, almost immediately after
the conclusion of the writing. Again, he was told at 9.81 p.m., to poke
the fire in 10 minutes. He was woke, and at 9.12 was set to the
planchette. The writing began at once, and ran,
Three minuetta has paB8ed and notCI [7] there " 7 more minuett8 has
got, to passed and eTum I ,hall poke ehe fire.
The writing was unusually slow, occupying five minutes, so that
though it began by being nearly correct, it became le88 so as it went on.
He was then re-hypnotised, and other experiments were made.
When woke he went to his former seat, and after looking uncom-
fortably at the fire for some time, said to me, " You don't mind
my poking the fire, do you, sir 7"-and poked it. This was some time
after the expiration of the 10 minutes; but possibly the intermediate
hypnotisation had had a confusing effect. On March 21st the same
" subject" was told, in the trance, that he was to put on his hat a
quarter of an hour after his next arrival. He was set to the planchette
about 7 minutes after his arri...al next day, but the writing did not
begin till he had been hypnotised, and the idea of writing suggested to
him. The instrument then beginning to move, he was at once woke,
and the writing continued steadily. It ran,
5 minueeta has pas,ed and 10 minuett8 has as got, to pa8aed and then
I ,hall put on my Hat.
This computation was certainly as much as 3 minutes out, perhaps
I It looks 18 if the idea of fulfilling an order for which sight is necessa.ry
were not enough to wake a .. subject n who is in the trance-condition with
closed eyes.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 313
a little more; and again the fulfilment of the order followed consider-
ably too soon. The act (as usual with P--ll) was completely
forgotten within two minutes of its performance.
The following result, obtained with my third" subject," S-t.
afforded a remarkably clear proof of the continuity of the reckoning.
He was told, in the trance, that he was to look out of the window
7 minutes after waking; and that he was to write how the time was
going. He was then woke. This was at 7.34l p.m. I set him to the
planchette, and the writing began at 7.361. I did not watch the
process; but where I stood, holding the screen in front of his eyes, I
was so close to his arm and hand that I could not help becoming aware
that writing was being produced at distinct intervals. I remarked
aloud that he was going by fits and starts, and seemed to have to pause
to get up steam. Immediately on the conclusion of the writing, which
was at 7.40, he got up, drew a.aide the blind, and looked out. Examining
the paper, I found
25 34 43 62 61 7.
Clearly he had aimed at recording,at each minute from the time when
he began, the number that had passed and the number that remained.
His first estimate was only 10 seconds wrong; but he somewhat
abbreviated his subsequent minutes, so that the 5 were condensed
into 31. .
.Again, he was told on March 27th that he was to do a particular
thing half-an-hour after his next a.rri~al, and to let me know as to the
time. He came next on April ith, at 8.45, and before long was put to
the instrument; but as no writing occurred, he was hypnotised and
asked if there was not something he was to do. He at once repeated
the order-wrongly as regards the act commanded; but on being
woke, at 8.59, his hand at once produced 14-16, which was an exact
statement of the number of minutes elapsed and still to elapse.
Another day he was told at 5.401 p.m. to poke the fire in 20
minutes, and to let me know how the time was going, and was then
woke. He was set to the planchette at 5.59. Unfortunately I cannot
quote the writing in this instance, as the paper on which it was pro-
duced is missing; but I have my note that the experiment WII.S success-
ful, and my remembrance is that the reckoning was correct to at any
rate within a minute. At 6.2 he got up and poked the fire.l
I In connection with these time·reckonings, it is worth noting that the
II8COndary intelligence retains knowledge of the pusage of both hypnotic and
Don·hypnotic time-as we might have expected from the fact that a hypnotised
person is colJIICioua of she lapse of both hypnotic and non·hypnotic time, though
in his nonnal 8tate hypnotic time is a blank to him. Here is an instance in
point. W-8 arrived one day at a few minutes before 7, and was hypnotised
after about 6 minutes. VariOU8 experiments were made, and in about 20
minutes he was told that he would BOOn have to let me know how th~time wp.a
Digitized by ~008le
314 Peculiarities of Gertain Post-Hypnotic States. [April !3,
v.
To WHAT EXTBNT CAN THB SBGRBGATION O. THB SBCONDARY .aoJl
THB PRIMARY INTBLLIGBNCB DB CABRIBD'
Finally, I must invite the reader's attention for a few pages to
some more complicated cases, which will require us to examine the
idea of " segregation of states" a little more in detail. How far have
the above experiments carried us , We have noted in them the
division of interest, and of the broader currents of attention, and
how the normal self was throughout unaware of the written exhi-
bitions of secondary intelligence. But we have had no proof that the
secondary intelligence was to the same extent excluded from normal
perception-in other words, that it would have been unable to exhibit
knowledge of something that struck the" subject's" senses, or occupied
his mind, while the writing was going on. The contrary, I think, is
what we should expect: we should expect to find that the topics which
the writing self could write about coalesced in part with the topics
which the talking self could talk about. I have elsewhere suggested,
a propos of the now well-known Newnham case, that segregated con-
scious states, when BimultaneotU, may be strictly comparable to the
lJUCC688ive states in cases of so-called "double-consciousness." 1 And since
in double consciousness the abnormal self remembers what the nonnal self
has known and felt, but not 'Dice versd " and since in hypnotism, which
reaHy exhibits "double consciousness" on a amaH scale, the hypnotised
" subject" remembers normal life, but on waking forgets hypnoti.. life ;
80 in these post-hypnotic trials it would not seem surprising if the
secondary self had access to normal experiences-in the sense that
intelligent perception of these was evinced behind the back, so to speak,
of the normal self-though the normal self has no access to the special
going. After two n:ore minutes he was woke; and the planchette then pro·
duced, .
Twentll-fiw minutu pall sewn.
It was really two or three minutes later. This approximation formed a
striking contrast to tht" normal blankness; for on waking he never had
the slightest idea how long his trance had lasted, and at the end of aD
hour's experiments was always surprised at being told that it was time for
him to go-often remarking that he seemed to have been only two or three
minutes in the room. I may add that he had no watch, and that there was
no clock in the room, or within hearing; but this is unimportant, as he
showed the usual ignorance both of what had been said to him and of what
he had written. Similarly P-ll, though not to be relied on, would some-
times prove to have reckoned with nearly complete correctness periods of half
an hour or three.quarters of an hour, which had been cut into bits by
interludes of trance.
1 PlIanta&m8 01 the Living, VoL I., p.69, 70; and see Mr. Myers' remarb
above, p. 256·7.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] PecuJ,iaritieB of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 315
secondary experiences. And that such is indeed the case there is
experimental evidence to show.1
The simplest cases are those where the reckoning of auditory signals
is recorded by the planchette. Thus P--ll was told, in the trance,
that, when I coughed for the third time, it would begin to rain. He was
woke, his hand was placed on the planchette, and I gave three coughs at
intervals. There was no movement till the third cough, when the words
When Jir. G'WN'l6'!I cough jOlf" third tim
were at once produced. At this point the writing seemed to labour,
and then ceased. I found that the" subject's" arm had become quite
rigid, and that he could not raise it-an e1l'ect which soon passed 011'.
This concluded his first day's experience of tile planchette, which greatly
impressed him. He Said earnestly, "That is a wonderful thing! Why,
it takes my hand along without my being able to stop it! What will
they get up next 1"
Another day the same "subject" was told that when I coughed for
the sixth time he WNi to look out of the window. He was wok.e, and I
gave at intervals I) coughs--onfl of which, however, was a failure, owing
to its obvious artificiality. He was set to the planchette, and the
words produced were,
W1&en Mr. Gwmey cough 6 times I am to look out.
At this point I read the writing, and stopped it. I asked if he had
noticed my coughing,. and he said, "No, sir;" but this, of course
showed no more than he had heard without attending. He was now
hypnotised, told that I wanted to know how often I had coughed, and
A.t once woke. The writing recommenced,
4 times he 1148 cough and 2 times mOIf"ll he 1148 to cough.
I coughed twice more, and he went to the window, drew aside the
blind, and looked out. Two minutes afterwards I asked him what sort
of a night it was. He said, "Fine when I came in." I said I thought
I had seen him looking out just now, but he absolutely denied it.
A precisely similarexperiment followed, the order being to poke the
fire when I rose from my seat the sixth time. The writing, produced
on my third rising, was
1 I need hardly point out that the proof could not be found in the mere
memory, on re-hypnotisation, of BOme marked event which had occurred in the
course of the writing-as when W-B, on one occasion, in describing what he
had written, B&id that a leg had come off the instrument during the process.
The hypnotised" subject" naturally remembers a recent event of waking life;
but the fact that the probably transient existence of the secondary intelligence
had its origin during the hypnot.ic trance affords no ground whatever for identi-
fying its scope with that of hypnotic memory.
Digitized by Coogle
316 Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic Statu. [April 23,
3 timu Mr. Gu'f"fIIJY got up from hu chair, and tlwe6 monJ cifflU
M has got to get up from hu chair.
The fulfilment of the order was punctual, and the oblivion of it
complete, till re-hypnotisation, when the memory recurred.
Later, P--ll was told that when 'I spoke the 30th word, he
was to walk to the door and come back again j and was then woke. I
made natural remarks at intervals, taking care to count the worda I
used. The 30th produced no result. 1 added one, and then told
him to come and write. The writing was,
Mr. Gurney spoke 30 words Mr. Smith I think I am right don't
you think 80 'I
He then returned to his former seat, and sat down for a second; then
got up, walked to the door, looked at it, and came back again. Re-
hypnotised, and questioned as to the words 1 had used, he remembered
most of them but not all. As he is not a ready counter or reckoner 1
gave him a simpler task, but again he was one out. He was told to
poke the fire at my lOth word, and woke. 1 spoke eight words, and
then set him to planchette. The writing was,
Mr. Gurney spoke 9 word and wMn M speak eM lOth fIJO'I'd
I am to poke eM fire.
1 made one more remark, and the order was at once obeyed. I offered.
him the usual BOvereign to tell me anything that he had written
-with the usual result.
Again, he was told to add together 1 and 2, 2 and 3, &c., up to 8
and 9, and also to write down anything startling that happened in the
room. He was woke, set to the planchette, and read a newspaper
aloud. Soon after his hand began to write, I knocked the poker down
in the fender. The writing was,
3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 tM Poker FeU do"", in Fmdw.
He was told to write down the alphabet, omitting every other
letter, and also anything startling that occurred. He was at once
woke, and was impressed with the hallucination of a drunken soldier,
which much excited and alarmed him, and he made gestures as though
preparing to fight. The writing none the less continued, and mean-
whlle 1 blew the candle out. The script r&D,
ace g I K Mr. Gurney blew tM candle out I 166 him.
The same openness to external impressions was shown by the
writing of answers to questions put to the "subject" after he had
been woke, the general direction to answer them having been given
to him during trance. Thus, while P--ll's hand was on the
planchette, and he was counting aloud the number of times 1 clapped
my hands, S. asked him successively: "What day of the week is it t"
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiatrities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 317
" How many sisters have you'" "~ow many brothers have you'"
" When did you beginwork this morning'" The writing produced was,
Thwrsday 3 5 7 o'clock.
Asked immediately afterwards, he said he did not thiBk that S. had
been speaking, unless perhaps he had BpIiIken to me (see p. 320).
Similarly, having been told to write the numbers from 100 backwards,
with omission of every other number, then woke, and impressed with
the hallucination of the soldier, he was asked, " What day is to-morrow '"
" What is the opposite of black'" " What is" large pistol called 1"
"What does he put in his pistol to make it go off' "-and wrote,
100 98 6 4 Friday White Rifle Powder.
More interesting, though much rarer of attainment, are the
eases where the percept which enters into the secondary self's
reckonings and writings is not one that has been in any way fore-
ordained for that purpose. For example, S-t was told, .in the trance,
to add together 3,5,8, 13, 14, and was instantaneously woke, and his
hand laid on the planchette. I then at once told him to add together
2, 7, 9, 10, 13. After a little reflection, he .t&id 41, which was right;
and his hand wrote 45, which was wrong, the right answer to the first
sum being 43. He was re-hypnotised, and asked what he had written;
he said 45. Asked what that meant, he said it was the sum of f,
7, 9, 13, 14. This sum is correct; and it is difficult to avoid the con-
clusion that the three first digits which I mentioned to him after his
awaking got incorporated into his calculation, displacing the first three
of the previous list. The next experiment contained a fainter indication
to the same effect. He was told, in the trance, to add together 4, 7, 11,
12, 13,and was instantly woke. His hand wrote 49-again 2 out. But
when re-hypnotised, and asked what numbers he had added, he said f,
9, 11, 13, 14-which would make his result correct; again introducing
the 2, 9, which he had never heard except in the normal state.
Again, a hallucination which was occupying the " subject's"
attention occasionally forced its way quite irrelevantly into the writing.
P--ll was told to write the numbers backwards from 100, was woke,
and was once more impressed with the idea of the soldier, who was
about to fire at him. He was extremely agitated, and wrote with great
speed and fury; and while he was doing so, 1 at intervals let down a
Venetian blind with a clatter, knocked the poker down, and blew the
candle out. The writing ran,
100 99 Mr. G'IIII"1I.61/ let the Blind/all down I will let the Soldier have
it when I can get at him give the Fender fell down did you heM it the
ctmdk blew out.1
1 Here W88 an instance, on a small scale. of hypnotic education. No
direction bad been given 88 to writing down startling event,.,; but in thia case
the fonner direction to that effect clearly retained it,., force. ... Gooole
Digitized by "
318 Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
He was told to write the names of three places beginning with S,
was instantly woke, and was impressed with the delusion that his
master was standing there, and wanted to know what he had been
doing in the afternoon. He wrote,
Sir I am 'IJfJ'fT1I 8tJ'f'f1I Sutton I wha8 out SoutAampton I could not
Aelp being SalBbury fJut I hops by the na I go to Suton SoutIIampton
SaliBbury Southampton SaliBbury ,Sutton.
The repetition of the names was due to S., at my desire, repeating
the words, " We want those places," alternately with "Your master
wanta that letter." On re·hypnotisation, P--ll perfectly realised the
muddled nature of the document, and said that his master " would stand
on his head when he got it."
These cases leave no doubt that the secondary intelli~nce can show
an apprehension of things which are at that moment engaging the
primary consciousness. The question then occurs, is it possible
to go further than we have yet gone, and to obtain evidence
of an absolutely complete or mutually exclusive segregation of two
simultaneous states or streams of consciousness in the same
individual 1 Can we ever 80 far shut off the intelligence whose work-
ings are unknown to the primary self that it is impossible for it to
obtain or betray knowledge of what is impressing or occupying
that self 7 It seems possible that this may be done (though
it could never, perhaps, be completely proved to have been done) by
adjusting the things proposed for simultaneous performance to the total
amount of attention which the particular" subject" can bring to bear.
A couple of cases which, though in a way failures, were, I believe, true
examples of the mutual exclusion in question, will make my meaning
clear.
S--t was told to multiply 697 by 8, was instantly woke, and in
another momont was given a book to read aloud. The pallll&ge was
the chapter about Humpty-Dumpty in TIvrO'l.l1lh the Looking-glau, of
which he read several pages with great spirit and enjoyment. But the
planchette on which his hand was lying remained motionless. He was
re·hypnotised, and S. said, "Why did you not do that sum 1"
S--T. " You didn't give me time to. I lost it all at once-could
make nothing of it afterwards."
S. " What elae have you been doing 7"
S-T. "What else' "
S. " Yes-what else1"
S-T. "I don't know-leave that in yonr hands."
S. " Have you been reading 1"
S--T. "No."
S. "Nothing about Humpty Dumpty1".. G I
Digitized by oog e
1887.] Pecu/,iaritieB of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 319
S-T. "Humpty who 1"
S. "Humpty Dumpty."
S--T. " I read about him when I was a kid."
S. "Hasn't Mr., Gurney been holding a book for you to read 1"
S-T. "No."
S. " What have you been doing' "
S-T. " Been sleepy or something."
Now this oblivion, on hypnotisation, of what has just before
been occupying attention in the waking state, is extremely excep-
tional. It would alone strongly suggest that the mind had been in
some degree engaged with something else, and that there had been a
sort of struggle between the two; and this is exactly what we can
readily suppose that the presence of the unsolved problem in the
secondary consciousness may have caused. But it is also a strong in.
dication that the forgotten things remained outside the scope of the
secondary intelligence. For the oblivion which the segregation of the
two streams of consciousness partially explains, would seem wholly un·
accountable if the forgotten things had had a place in both streams.
The next case is still more significant in this sense. P--ll was
told several times, " It has left oft' snowing"; and then, when woke
and set to the planchette, he was made to read aloud. The writing
which appeared was,
It has lfift m-
and while this was proceeding, the reading was bad and stumbling.
When the writing stopped, the reading became appreciably more correct
and fluent. Re-hypnotisation aft'orded a glimpse of the condition in
which the secondary intelligence had found itself. Asked what he had
been doing, the" subject" replied, "Trying to write 'It has left oft'
snowing.''' Asked if he had been reading, he said, "Reading ! No,
I haven't been reading," and added, "Something seemed to disturb
me." " How was that 1" "Something seemed to keep moving about
in front of me, so I got back into bed again." "Didn't Mr. Gurney
hold a book and make you read aloud1" " No, somebody kept moving
about. I didn't like the looks of them. Kept wandering to and fro.
Horrible, awful I I thought to myself, ' I'll get into bed.' It looked so
savage--quite unnerved me," &c., &c. The experiment was repeated.
The "subject" was told, "It has begun snowing again." The writing
was now an almost illegible scrawl of
It begun IJ'1I.OW'i.ng.
Meanwhile he was reading about Humpty.Dumpty, slowly and with
omission of words, but with clear comprehension and decided amuse-
ment. On being re-hypnotised, he was again completely unaware
of the reading, and gave the same description as .. before J)f- ~
Digitized by ~U001\:'
320 Peculiarities of Certain POBt-Hypnotic State8. [April 23,
way that he was disturbed in writing; as to which I can
only suppose that the sense of strain, involved in the ineffectual
attempt to concentrate attention on the writing, developed into
a sort of hallucination, just as in sleep discomfort of various sorts
develops into dream. Here, then, was a remarkable result. Not only
was the normal self, as usual, quite alert, and ita interest in
Humpty Dumpty quite unalloyed by the dark fancies of its hidden
fellow; and not only on re-hypnotisation was there no memory of
the manner in which the normal self had been employed; but there was
a distinct memory of something else. An experience which must have
belonged to the secondary self (since the primary had no knowledge of
it) is shown to have had a very substantive reality, and actually
prevails over a decidedly vivid piece of normal life on the plane of su~
quent memory. The result seems a pretty clear proof that the states
were mutuallyexclusive in this instance; and renders it probable that they
may be so in any instance where the available stock of attention (which
there is no reason to believe to be increased by the segregation of
states) is completely used, and where the subjects which engage the
two lines of attention are themselves sufficiently distinguished. Thia
was clearly not the case in the previous examples where the secondary
consciousness was set to mark certain sounds which were to meet the
normal ear, and where an effort was made to get two similar bits of
arithmetic done at the same time. As it happens, in the case just
described the available stock of attention fell short; the double drain
WBB too much, and neither the primary nor the secondary intelligence
was able to perform its task perfectly when the other was in activity;
while the strain and disturbance introduced a new and confusing
element. In other cases, the one or the other more or less broke down ;
apart from actual mistakes in writing or in reading,} we have seen the
secondary self producing incoherent phrases; and on several occasions
when it was well to the fore, and gave the correct answers to spoken
questions in correct form, the primary self, interrogated immediately
afterwards, appeared not to have heard these questions, even as
sound, and certainly had not understood them. But if my surmise be
1 It was curious to observe how the act of writing sometimes seemed to
affect P-U's power of articulation; the difficulty seemed to be of a
distinctly physical sort, and he himself several times remarked that it seemed
to .. draw" the right side of his mouth, without affecting his comprehension of
what he read. It seems just posllible that this may be connected with the
proximity of the cerebral centres of speech and of movement of the right arm
(see Le MagmtiBme Animal, by MM. Binet and FtSrtS, p. 250). At. the same time
the difficulty undoubtedly seemed to be less when the acta accomplished were
of a semi·mechanico.l kind; as when he had to write the numbers from 100
backwards, and simultaneously count the numbers from 1 forwards, and
1Ike _..:I.
Digitized by Coogle
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 321
right, we might expect, by varying the trials, to hit at last on cases
where two mental tasks, both of them requiring IOm8 but neither of
them very muck attention, were simultaneously carried out, without
either of them interfering with the performance of the other, and
leaving memories which should be mutually exclusive, and ascertainable
only in the normal and the hypnotic states respectively.1
The following seem to be examples of the kind. P--ll was told
to count the number of times the letter 0 occurs in the lines, .. Jenny,
my own true loved one, Wait till the clouds roll by," and was instantly
woke. His hand being laid on the planchette, he was made to read
a. newspaper aloud, which he did excellently. Meanwhile 5 0 was
written. On re-hypnotisation, he said that he had written the answer
to what he had been asked, but he totally denied having been reading,
could not recall anything about a newspaper, and did not even
remember that anything had been held in front of him, though
admitting that he was unable to see what he was writing. Similarly
io the case described above (p. 307), where he wrote about the horse
running away on Easter Monday, he was reading with tolerable
fluency from a newspaper during the whole time of the writing, and
stood examination on the passage; but on re-hypnotisation he did not
remember to have been reading, though he did recall "that his mouth
went to and fro as if he was eating." It is worth adding that on
occasions where no hypnotic suggestion had been made about giving
written answers to S.'s remarks, and where the appointed task,whatever
it was, was not performed by the writing self, S.'s spoken appeals--as,
"Now what does that come to' "or "Now we want you to tell us-
you know what"-never produced any effect; which looked as if the
secondary intelligence was unaware of them.
There is one other experiment, of special interest as I think, to which
I must again refer in this connection-the one with W- 8 (p. 299),
1 I must again point out that the mutual exclusiveness of memory, though
highly demonstrative, when it occurs, of the mutual exclusiveness of the
remembered states, would not be neceeaarily involved therein; for we have no
right to expect the subsequent hypnotic memory to confineitee1f to .. secondary"
experienC88. At the same time the cases which follow in the text do seem to
reveal a CI086r connection of the subsequent hypnotic memory with the
secondary than with the primary experiences. It is worth noting here that the
failure on re-hypnotisation to remember the primary experieaces was never
observed in eases where the secondary task had been easy, involving no reckon-
ing or reftection. Thus in the case (p. 312) where P-ll wrote about the time,
5 millett has ]HI886d, &c., he was reading aloud from a newspaper about a.
shipwreck, and on re-hypnotisation remembered both tIte act of reading, and the
contents of the pasaage. In the case of the note to his sweetheart, he was alao
readiJlg aloud, and perfectly remembered the passage when re-hypnotised. This
would accord with the rule, if we were cynical enough to suppose that ~e com-
l
position of such missives had become to some extent mechanicaligitized by l::.oog e
322 Peculiarities of Oertain Post-Hypnotic States. [April 23,
where the words CMa.. are all BOrled were produced by the planchette.
The conditions of attention were here exceptional; for the primary or
ostensible self, instead of being normal as in most of the planchette
experiments, was here under the influence of hyprwW: hallucination.
Now, a hypnotic hallucination is peculiar in combining two character-
istics-it is extremely absorbing, in the sense that it carries the
" subject's" mind along a very distinct and narrow channel; while at
the same time it involves no reflection nor reckoning, and so does not
demand any large amount of mental activity. It seems, then, exactly
adapted to allow scope for a parallel but wholly dissociated piece of
mentation, ifmutually exclusive mental states be a possibility in nature ;
and such a piece of mentation I concluded that it was which produced
the spontaneous written statement about the cards. But it will be
remembered that the "subject's" expressed intention was to write
&lWMtking else, and he believed afterwards-even while the actual
word CMd& was before his eyes-that he had written something else.
It surely, then, seems a reasonable conclusion that, had the writing
intelligence embraced the experience of this impulse to produce a
different script, tlUll. is what it would have produced, instead of
originating an unsolicited remark of its own. The following case with
P--ll points in the same direction. He was told to write down the
names of three places beginning with H, and then was instantly woke,
and told that he was to write a letter to me, and that the messenger
was standing there, waiting for it and bothering him. The hallucina-
tion took complete effect, and he talked to the messenger all the time
he was writing; but the words produced were not a letter, but simply
Ha&ting& Hamsteti Hanover.1
With these results it is instructive to compare the somewhat similar
case of Madame B. (p. 249). That experiment also took place during
hypnotic trance; but a leBa extreme m6ana than hallucination being
employed to engross the prima.ry intelligence, and keep it, so to speak,
out of view of the secondary, the segregation sooms to have been less
complete. For in the subsequent hypnotic condition, the "subject,"
recalling her secondary experiences, remembered that" the other one
was talking"; and one can hardly help regarding this as a true
" secondary" memory: the memory of the "primary" experience-of
1 In other cases, however, as wo have Been, P-U'a writing did show
knowledge of a hallucinatory idea impreaaed after his waking. I think it
poaaible that the difference between these caBell and W--8'a was due to the
greater time apent over the latter; the idea of the carda had engroaaed W-a
during several minutes, and thiB may have given it a more separate and
independent place in hiB mind. But it iB also likely enough that "subjects"
di.er as to the degree of absorption and aeparateneBB that the secondary
intelligence can attain. . .. Gooole
Digitized by "
1887.] Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States. 323
the actual conversation-would neither have included such a sense
of dividedness and duality, nor have spoken in the name of the secondary
self. I suspect, therefore, that if appealed to in the course of the
experiment, Madame B. would have been able "automatically" to
show knowledge of what her conversing self was doing.
The hint in W-s's case is, at any rate, one that is worth following
up. We have for some time been familiar with hypnotism, in general, as
a means of loosening the connections of the mental machinery, and giving
independent play to this and that part of it. On that ground what we
examine is the hypnotic state itself; we study its phenomena directly
for what they are and what they teach. Hypnotism assumes a wholly
new significance when it leads (as in this paper and the preceding
one by Mr. Myers we have seen it do) to results beyrmd itseif-
when it appears as the ready means for establishing a secondary
train of consciousness, to which when established (as was pointed out
above) there is no ground for attributing any special hypnotic
character. And it would be a yet further development if in a
particular hypnotic phenomenon, such as induced hallucination, we
found the means for straining such secondary consciousness free from
a.ny association with the ostensible "self," and assuring to it a
perfectly independent dow. It would be a short-sighted yiew which
should see in such refinements as this the mere curiosities of psychical
chemistry. In the new psychology, the line between the normal and
abnormal has become so shadowy that not the smallest or rarest
abnormal phenomenon can be safely neglected, by those who aim at the
fullest possible realisation of human nature and development. But
our last experiment may further contain some consolation for those
who view the accumlllating proofs of the instability and divisibility of
consciousness with perplexity and alam. For here, at any rate, the
secondary intelligence was the sane, or, as we may, the normal self.
If we find it humiliating to our sense of human dignity to see a fellow-
creature the helpless puppet of suggested del~sions, it is at least some-
thing to discover that reason still reigns in a part of his being-that
he is still capable of evolving sense and truth, even though from a
consciousness so "inner" that special appliances are needed to bring
it to the surface.
Digitized by Coogle
v 9.
324 E:cperi,ments in Thought-Transference.
IV.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By ANTON SCHMOLL.
(Tmmlated from the original Genna».)
These experiments were made in the evening, in a. lighted room in
my house, 111, Avenue de Villiers, Paris, with the assistance of ~L
Etienne Mabire [of 65, Rue Blanche, Paris], retired marine officer, ~Ille.
Louise M., and my wife. A young officer, M. D., assisted at No.1.
We worked in the dining-room, the positions being shown in the
a.ccompanying plan.
Tahk.
o£ t
.,
-J:
•
..
,I' 1 '
A. A
, l'I. IfII4.r
We experimented in the following manner. The person appointed
to reproduce the objects (drawings or real things) sat with his back to
the others, in the corner of the room P, his eyes being covered. I call
this person the percipient because his part ~g~RM!\.~~ passive
Experime'1llt8 in ThO'UfJht-Tramference. 325
reception of psychical impressions; while the business of the other
persons, the agents, consists in producing the impression through
conrentration of their attention and through energetic volition. In
the above plan, P represents the percipient, A the agents (only in the
:first 10 experiments the two outside agents sat at a), 0 is the spot
where the object to be guessed was laid or placed. The light, L, came
from a hanging lamp. The arrows show the direction of the eyes.
After the percipient was comfortably settled in the corner P,
about three metres distant from the object, and had been blindfolded, a
figure in thick lines was drawn on a sheet of white paper by one of
the agents, and the drawing was laid down flat upon the table at O.
This procedure seeming to be unfa.'\'"ourable to the success of the
experiment in six trials, we set the drawing upright. In the later
trials, as already mentioned, the agents, whose line of vision had at first
almost crossed each other at right angles, sat in a line, side by side, in
order to avoid the slightest divergence in the direction of their looks.
In binding the eyes, the bandage should not be drawn too tight, as
the pressure them causes a continuous flickering of the eyelids, which
interferes with good results. All that is required is to cover the eyes,
80 that all direct vision is impossible, and for this end great pressure
is not necessary. The percipient is recommended to close the eyes
lightly, and thus to avoid all muscular exertion.
In the seven last trials we chose a real object, which we laid down
or set up at O. It has appeared advisable that, with the exception
of the object to be guessed, there should be nothing to be seen on the
table which could influence or distract the thoughts of the agents. (See
trial 22.) During the experiments, complete quiet was maintained.
The agents gazed uninterruptedly at the object, and concentrated their
whole will on the desire to make a mental impression on the percipient.
- The latter was recommended to give himself up to a completely passive
condition, and carefully to avoid I!training his mind in search of the
idea..
The object was of course always hidden before the handkerchief
was taken from the eyes of the percipient, except in cases where the
attempt had failed, and when there WIloS no question of transference.
The object was placed quite quietly on the table, which was covered
with a thick tabllHlover, so that the percipient could not hear the
slightest noise on its being laid down. Precise notes were at once
taken of the results and details of each trial.
As to the experimenters, the following may be said :-Mlle. Louise
M., aged 25, is lively and cheerful; my wife, aged 39, of a calm
temperament; M. Mabire, aged 59, earnest, thoughtful, and of
sober judgments. As to myself, I am 45 years, exceptionally sensitive,
otherwise very well in health.
Digitized by Coogle
326 Experiments in TluYught-Transference.
}'rom the" beginning it was arranged amongst us that we should
moat carefully guard against self-deception, and especially against
exaggeration of the impreaaions that we received. We simply wanted
to find out what there was in the matter, and it would have little
profited us to embellish the results.
Whether any of us is hypnotically or somnambulistically disposed
is not yet ascertained. Several sittings which we lately held for the
purpose of obtaining "raps" were completely without result. If any
mediumistic power exists among us, it has certainly not as yet been
developed.
We were none of us sceptical with respect to psychical events in
general; but if we did not feel ourselves justified in denying apriori
things which competent authorities assert to have been established, still
we were more or leas inclined to the view that the majority of these
phenomena were of a subjective nature.
According to our experience, the following are the mental processes
that took place before the closed eyes of the percipient. For many
minutes, sometimes quite a quarter of an hour, he sees nothing. Soon,
however, it appears as though a white shimmer of a certain form was
periodically moving in the field of vision. Little by little this vague,
inconstant picture appears in & manner to condense itself, and to make
its appearance at shorter intervals. He begins to seize certain outlines,
which become clearer from minute to minute, till he at last says, "Now
I believe I see what it is."
If an attempt appeared about to fail, the percipient, still blind-
folded, approached us, and gave his hands to two of the agents, whilethe
third closed the chain. But it does not appear that this proceeding,
with us, at any rate, has any special efficacy. The intensity of the
mental pictures was not essentially increased by it, and if previously
there had been no picture, none usually appeared after we had formed
the chain. With us there can be no question of muscl~reading.
Lastly, be it remarked that among those who took part in the trials
there existed no real difference in the faculty for thought-reading.
Neither did this faculty make any progreaa during the course of the
experiments.
1.-JuZy 20th, 1886.
..4.genu.-M. Habire, M. Lieutenant D., Frau Schmoll.
Percipient.-A. Schmoll.
Object.-A pair of gold lpectacles were laid on the table.
BuuZt.-Followed after 8-10 minutes: "I see something like showering
lparka, or the abort flaahel of lightning."
lUma,.k.-The agenta were unanimoUily of opinion that thia vWon WIllI
to be ucribed to the reflection of light from the lpectaclel, which, in
consequence of the oblique lighting up, really fell on their eyea.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-Transference.
2.-July 3bt, 1886.
.Agenta.-M. Mabire, Mlle. Louise, Frau Schmoll•
.Pereipiet..t.-A. Schmoll.
Object (drawn).I-
327
Ruult.-After 10 minutes: .. I see something round, a circle, the Cuo
-
cumference of which seems to contract on the inner side." (Pause.)
" The contraction ceases. It is a round or elliptical form."
Rema,..k.-M. Mabire had in the first place drawn the outline of the
figure, and then thickened it inwards with firm IItrokes of the pen.
3.-The lame evening.
Agents.-Mlle. Louise, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient. -M. Mabire.
Object.-A penknife was laid on the table.
Ruult.-Failed. After the lapse of a quarter of an hour, M. Mabire took
the bandage oft', and after he had seen the object explained that he
certainly had Been nothing, but still involuntarily had thought of a pen-
knife. He regretll not having said this before taking oft'the bandage.
4.-The same evt1~ing.
Agenta.-MlIe. Louise, M. Mabire, Frau Schmoll.
Percipient.-Schmoll.
Object (drawn).-
•
•
RuuZt.-Failed. Nothing at alllleen.
Agent.. }A' N 4
P, ;"';_1 Sill O••
e"'l.t'~.~.
Object (drawn).-
5.-The same evening.
1 The drawings and reproductions are reproduced from the MS. of Herr
Schmoll's record. He writes, "Je n'si malheure1l88ment pas conserv~ lea
originaux dea ex~rieDcea. Quand je les eu fideIement copief, en lea reduisant,
je crus que cea feuillcs volantes n'avaient plua d'inUret, et je lea jew; je
m'en repenll aujourd'hui."
Digi
328 Experiments in Thought-Tranaference.
Buult.-After 15 minutea: "It almoBt looka like a Chineae bamboo fan; or
alao like a heart, with ita point stretched downwarda in the form of
a Btalk." Then I drew (without having seen the original) :-
Bemark.-I clearly saw the object doubled symmetrically.
6.-The same e-mg.
~genta.-M. Hahire, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-Mlle. Louise.
Object (drawn).-
x
ButlZt.-After 22 minutea: "I am not clear about thiB figure ; now I see a
laIlder, now it looks like a flight of steps, now like a foot-stoul. It iB
quite vague, but it must be BOmething of the sort."
.Remark.-A certain approximation ia unmiatakable.1
7.-~U.gU8t 4th, 188G.
~genta.-Mlle. Louise, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-M. Habire.
Object (drawn).-
ButlZt.-M. Habire &ees "a row of right anglea, diapoaed one within
another," and drew, after the picture had been hidden:-
~::::~t. }
As in No.7.
8.-- The same etJening.
Object (drawn).-
1 Thia may perhaps be queationed.-ED.
Digitized by Coogle
E~mt>tnts in Thought-Transference. 329
Buult.-" I Bee very clearly a figure of parabolic form, something like the
track of a comet. At the perihelion of this track I see two little lines
like rays standing out from one other." Then M. Mabire drew :-
Rematrk. -If one divides the original in two by a vertical cut, md places one
of them upright, the figure approximates to what was perceived.
D.-The same mmit'!1.
Agents.-Mlle. Louise, M. Mabire, Schmoll.
Percipient.-Frau Schmoll.
Ubject (drawn).-
A
RutcZt.-After 5 minutes: "It appears to be a flower-pot; but it is very
indistinct. What projects above does not look like flowers. I cannot
say what it is."
10.-Augwt 4th, 1886.
Agents.-Mlle. Louise, M. Mabire, Frau Schmoll.
Percipient.'-·Schmoll.
Object (drawn).-
s
RutcZt.-" I see four ckcIes touching each other." (pause.) "No, it is
two 8's, which cross at right angles." (After another pause of some
minute.' duration, the chain closed.) " Now I only l8e the half of the
figure that I saw last." Then I drew both the perceived figures :-
Digitized by Coogle
330 Ea:perinnentB in Th01.£fJht-TTansf6'1'8'llA)6.
11.- Atcgu.t 12th, 1886.
Agentl.-Mlle. Lowe, M. Mabire, Frau Schmoll.
Percipient.-Schmoll.
ObjllCt (drawn).-
T
RuuZt.-Unsatisfactory: .. I see confused, misty figures, out of which the
following alone atand out clearly" :-
111.-The aame ewning.
Agenfl.-Mlle. Louiae, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
P~t.-M. Mabire.
ObjllCt (drawn).-
.Ra1at.-" What I see reminds me somewhat of a spiral nebula; I canno~
well describe it, but will try to draw it." Then M. Mabire drew :-
13.-AuguBt 20th, 1886.
Agent".-M. Mabire, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Penipient.-Mlle. Louiae.
ObjllCt (drawn).-
x Digitized by Coogle
EXper1/11umts in Thought-Transference. 331
Ruult.-" I see two Itraight lines, which form an angle, now tumed down-
wards like an A; now upwards like a V." (pause for lOme minute•.)
.. Strange! now I see both figures united by the point." Then Mlle.
Louise quickly took the bandage off and drew :-
x
14.-The aame el1ening.
Agentl.-Mlle. Louise, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-M. Habire.
Object (drawn).-
, BuuU.-" It is Botvery clear, and di1licult to describe. I see a row of obtuae
angles, gradually diminishing in size, and preBBed one within another; the
figure reminds me of a mountain chain, as luch are drawn on geographi-
cal mapa." M. Mabire then drew the following:-
A
15.-The aame eveni'lg.
Agent&-Mlle. Louise, M. Habire, Frau Schmoll.
Percipient.-Schmoll.
Object (drawn).-
K
RuuZt.-After a quarter of an-hour: "I lee two divergent bright lines, quite
like thoee which one aeea to the east of the double crater, MeBBier, in the
moon." (Three minutes' paUle.) ,, Now there are two points, one within
the other, but almost right angles." I then drew both perceived figurea:-
<: <
Bemcwk.-The vertical line of the original, therefore, wu not eeelh I
Digitized by ~008 e
332 Experiments in Thought-TM1I.8/eTenCe.
l6.-The lelme ewnitl9.
Agenu.-Mlle. Louise, M. Mabire, Schmoll.
Percipient.-Frau Schmoll.
Obj,ct (drawn by M. Mabire).-
Ruult.-"I 188 an egg-shaped object, very 1IIIlIill, with a point in the
middle." (Mlle. Louise and I proteated, laughing aloud; M. Mabire
remained serious.) Frau Schmoll corrected herself at once, and said.
"You may be right; for now I see very clearly something quite
di1rerent, namely, two right angles, one within the other." Then abe
took the bandage off and drew bGth the figures suen as follow :-
«{
&mark.-Now for the first time M. Mabire explained that h. had been
much astonished by the fint perception: his fint intention had been.
not to draw a zigzag figure, but the rudimentary form of an eye.
It will be seen that in No.2 the angles are right anglee. as in the
original-side by aide instead of one within another. The number and
form of the angles are the aruue.
l7.-Augu,e 21.t, 1886. (Ocmtributed.)
Agents.-Mme. Renet, Mlle. Paine, M. Renet.
Percipieflt.-M. Mabire.
Object (drawn).-
rn
RutcU.-" I see a great number of right mglee one within another."
(Pause.) "Now I l8e two curves in contact with each other with their
convexities upwards, rather like 8 figure 3 placed horizontally and witJa
its terminal points downwards. But the two end. are prolonged down-
warda in straight vertical lines... M. Mabire drew :-
Ret'l'lMk.-Among I8veral trials made by the above-mentioned penona, ~
was the only o~e which gave a aatilfactory reeult. Gooole
Digitized by "
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 333
18.-A1.IffU8t 24th, 1886.
Agenu.-Mlle. Louise, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-M. Mabire.
Object (drawn).-
Buult.-M. Mabire saw " a BOrt of sE'micircle like the ta.il. of a comet, but
of spiral construction, likA BOme of the nebullll." What he saw he
reproduced in the following manner ;-
19.-The same evenin.g.
Agent8.-Mlle. Louise, M. Mabire, Frau S~hmoll.
Percipient.-Schmoll.
Object (drawn).-
4
Ruult.-"I S.88 two double lines, that crou each other at about right angles."
(pause.) "The two double lines now appear single, but like rays of light,
and in the form of an X." (Another pause.) "Now I see the upper part
of the X separated from the lower by a vertical line. " I draw ;-
x 2O.-TlIe 8ame evenin.g.
Agcnu.-Mlle. Louise, M. Mabiro, Schmoll.
Percipien.t.-Frau Schmoll.
Ob-ject.-A braBB weight of 500grms. was placed on the table.
x
izedbyGoogle
3340 Experiments in Thought-Tramference.
Ruult.-" What I Bee 1000 like a abort piece of candle, without a candle-
stick. It must be burning, for at the upper part I Bee it glitter."
&mark.-At the upper part of the object indicated by the arrow, bright
reftectiona, caused by the oblique lighting, were seen by all the agen....
(the weight was rubbed bright). The form Been decidedly reaemblea the
original, especially the outline.
21.-7'he lame e_iflg.
Agmu.-M. Mabire, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-Mlle. Louise.
Object. -My gold watch (without the chain) was noiseleaaly placed before 08,
the back turned towards; on the face are Roman numbers.
Ruult.-After five minutes: "I see a round object, but I cannot describe it
more particularly." {During the pause thatfollowed, without cauaingtbe
slightest noise, I turned the watch round, so that we saw the face.} Soon
Mlle. Louise called out: .. You are certainly looking at the clock over the
piano, for now I quite clearly see a clock face with Roman numben."
&mark.·- Of all the results so far obtained, this is decidedly the moat note-
worthy. The ticking of the watch could not have served as an indication.
Owing to the conatant noise of carriages in the street, it was impossible
for the agents who were sitting near to hear the ticking, and Mlle. Louiae
who sat three metres away from it, was stillleaa likely to hear it.
22.-&ptember 10th, 1886.
Agmu.-Mlle. Louise, M. Mabire, Frau Schmoll.
Percipient.-Schmoll.
Object.-A pamphlet (in 8vo.) was slantingly placed on the table.
Ruult.-Completely failed. I saw nothing whatever.
&mark.-At the beginning of our trials to-day.we had neglecttld to clear the
table. The book was surrounded by other objects, and also badly
lighted.
23.-7'he lame e'lJeJling.
Agmu.-Mlle. Louise, M. Mabire, Schmoll.
Percipient.-Frau Schmoll.
Object. ·-A piece of candle, 20 centimetre. long, was placed on the
table.
Ruult.-After eight minutes: .. I see it well, but not clearly enough to say
what it is. It is a thin, long object."
" How long 7" asked M. Mabire.
Frau Schmoll tried by leparating her ha.nd. to give a measurement, but
could not do it with certainty, and said, "A full hand's length, about
20 centimetres." Begged for a further description, abe said, .. I see
nothing like a walking-stick, but at one end there must be gold, for
something ahines there." (The candle was not buming.)
24.-Tht lame e'lJening.
Agmu.-M. Mabire, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-Mlle. Louise.
Digitized by Coogle
E:cperimtmts in Thought-Transference. 335
Object.-A Faience tea-pot was placed on the table :-
Ruult.-After five minutes: "It is not a drawing, but a real object. I see
very clearly a little vase, a little pot or pan."
25.-The lame mining•
.Agenu.-Mlle. Louise, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-H. Mabire.
Object.-The stamp of the firm was placed on the table :-
Ruult.-After 20 minutes: "The picture appears to be rather confused.
But I believe that I see the lower partof a drinking glass." (Pause.)
" Now it baa gone again." (A pause of five minutes.) ,•Now I see
another fonn, like two symmetrical S shaped double curves, placed
side by side." Then H. Mabire drew:-
Remark.-Apparently the lower part was seen first, and then the upper.
2ft-The lame evening.
Agmta.-H. Mabire, Frau Schmoll, Schmoll.
Percipient.-Mlle. Louise.
Object.-The double eye-glaases (pince-nez) belonging to H. Mabire were
laid on the table.
db
Ruult.-After five minutes: .. I see two curves. open above, that do not
touch each other." Then Mlle. Louise drew:-
Uu Digitized by Coogle
336 . Experi'T1ll1lJ,8 in Tltov,ght-Tram/ertmce.
./ The results of the preceding trials clearly leave much to be desired ;
nevertheless, it is not to be denied that in many cases the reproduction
possessea the fundamental chAracter of the original, and, indeed, in
many (as, for example, Nos. 2,8, 12, 13, 18, 21, 24,25) very strongly
approaches precision. In no single case, strictly speaking. did there
appear absolute discrepancy between the form of the reproduction
.and that of the original. We han therefore been able to convince
ourselves that the agents, concentrating their looks on the given object,
projected on the mental eye of the percipient a picture more or less
resembling it, and we take it as incontrovertible that the above results
,could not have been achieved by conscious or unconscious guessing.
We shall continue these psychical experiments, and should be glad to see
similar ones instituted in other family circles; for before science can
advance to the synthesis of these mental phenomena, 80 little known
and yet 80 important, as large a supply as possible of empirical data
must be obtained. No doubt there may be a difficulty in finding people
in one's neighbourhood who are competent to aid in the development of
such experiments, and who would bring to them the necessary earnest-
ness and patience. But one should not let oneself be discouraged by a
little trouble, when there is a chance of throwing light on events which.
correctly apprehended, may lead us to the psychological proof of our
transcendental, imperishable Ego.
NOTE BY F. W. H. MYBBB.
The greater part of the above series of figures were given in Sphinx
for February. 1887. On seeing them, I wrote to Herr Schmoll, who
kindly oft'ered to allow me to join his group in the Avenue de Villiers.
This I accordingly did on April 2, 5, and 8. I thus made the acquain-
tance of Herr and Frau Schmoll, of M. Mabire, of Mlle. Louise, and of
some newer members of the group; and I saw experiments conducted,
with good faith and care, precisely in the manner above described.
The only point which struck me as needing further attention was the
need of complete abstinence from exclamations until the percipient has
finished drawing the figure. (See Exp. 21.) I suggested also that the
percipient had better be called into the room, already blindfolded, when
the pictures had been drawn and concealed from view. I do not,
however, think that any indication can have been gathered from the
sound of the drawing; as this was done with the end of a lucifer-
match, dipped in ink, and daubed noiselessly on the paper. There is a
slight inaccuracy in the account of Exp. 21, which we have
thought it better to leave as it stands. The watch was not, in fact,
Digitized by Coogle
ExpeTiments in TluYught-TmnsfeTence. 337
going at the time-a point overlooked by Herr Schmoll, but noticed
a.nd proved by Frau Schmoll afterwards. I will add that Mlle. Louise
was the only percipient who attained real success when I was present;
and I suspect that she will be found the most gifted of the group. I
saw her only on April 8.
Between March 4th and 25th, Herr Schmoll continued the series of
drawings, &c., Nos. 27-47, with mingled success and failure. Nos. 48-55
were tried in my presence, but were on the whole unsuccessful. Nos.
56-65, performed without me, included several successes. Nos. 66-69
were again performed in my presence, under excellent conditions, and
of these, 66 and 69, where the percipient was Mlle. Louise, are among
the most interesting of the series. We hope to give a reproduction of
some of these on a future occasion. Herr Schmoll has since, at my
suggestion, tried the transmission of nwmber8, taste•• and paim, but as
yet without success.
We hope before long again to take some personal part in this inter-
esting series; and we trust that other groups may be encouraged by
Herr Schmoll's success to undertake similar experiments with patience
and care.
Digi
338 Accou-nts of some So-called" Spiritualistic" Sea'M68.
v.
ACCOUNTS OF SOME SO-CALLED "SPIRITUALISTIC"
SEANCES.
By PROFESSOR H. CUVILL LEWIS, M.A., F.G.S., AND OrHERS.
Some editorial explanation is perhaps needed, for those who are not
familiar with Spiritualistic literature, of the prominence given in the
following pages to a single medium. Eglinton is undoubtedly considered
by Spiritualists in England, and throughout a great part of Europe, to be
the most powerful professional" psychic' at present giving seances, and
the one through whom conclusive evidence of the spiritual origin of the
phenomena can best be obtained. He even carries the palm over the
once famous D.D. Home, in the opinion of some who have known both.
His phenomena may therefore be fairly taken as typical, BO far as
professional mediumship is concerned, of the evidence on which the
Spiritualistic belief rests; and an examination of his claims is
therefore an important step in the investigation of the subject.
Eglinton has now been acting as a medium for BOme 12 years or so,
and his ~ances are of various kinds. There are the dark seances at
which lights appear, and objects are moved about while the medium's
hands are supposed to be held; materialisation seances-alao held in
darkness or semi-darkness-at which living beings purporting to be
" materialised .. spirits, are seen, felt, and talked with by the sitters;
and ~ces for slate-writing or "psychography," at which writing
appears on slates under circumstances which, in the opinion of most of
the sitters, render it impossible for Eglinton to have produced it him-
self.
It"is with this last class of phenomena that we are here concerned.
Slate-writing is supposed to be a phenomenon specially easy to investi-
gate satisfactorily, and specially adapted to convince the sceptic.
Reports on the subject had been sent from time to time to the head-
quarters of the Society; and in accordance with a rather generally
expressed wish, the whole body of them* were printed in the Society's
Jowmal for June and October, 1886. But since many readers of the
Proceedings do not see the Jowmal (which is issued for private
circulation among our own members), it may be well to gi.e here
one or two fresh specimens of the class of cases on which Spiritualists
• One report, Bent by the Rev. A. J. Rogers, was accidentally omitted; it
afterwards appeared in Light for October 16, 1886.
Digitized by Coogle
Accounts of 80me So-coIled" Spirittutl.istic" Seances. 339
have relied. We will take examples which have been represented by
leading Spiritualists as test-ca.ses--as conclusive evidence, for any
unprejudiced mind, that the results were due to some occult agency.
In the footnotes appended, which have been supplied by Mrs.
Sidgwick. an endeavour is made to show, with the aid of the narratives
that follow in this paper and in Mr. Davey'S, the reasons why we
regard these accounts as inconclusive.
The following case was contributed by "M.A. (Oxon.),,--a nom
de plume well known to Spiritualists as that of a leading repre-
sentative of English Spiritualism, to Light for November 13, 1886.
On November 3rd I had a sitting with Mr. Eglinton at his house, 6,
Nottingham-place. The obseners present, beside myself, were Dr.
Stanhope Speer (13, Alexandra-road, N.W.), and Mr. W. G. Johnson (68,
High-street, Bedford). We met at 3.30 p.m. in a room which was amply
lighted, at first by natural light and afterwards by gas, for every purpose of
exact observation. The room is that inaccurately described by Professor
Hoffmann as "a ground-floor back shut in by adjacent buildings." Mr.
Eglinton's room is not shut in by anything that impedes the free entry of
light. At no time during the sitting was there any question as to the
p088ibility of seeing what was being done, nor, I may add, of keeping the
slates .. under continuous observation."
I took with me two ordinary school-slates, purchased by myself. In
order to guard against the possibility of these slates being changed or the
surfaces being reversed, I had marked one of the two slates on the frame
of one of its sides with a blue cross, and on the other with a blue circle.
The other slate was similarly marked with green. It thus became a matter
of very simple observation to see that the writing was not produced by trick
on the under surface of the slate when held beneath the table, a change in
the slate being (as has been suggested) effected while the attention of the
observers was purposely distracted. There was no possibility of any such
trick throughout the sitting.!
1 It is unnecessary to suppose any change of slates in order to explain the
events of this seance, and it is most probable that they were not changed. The
precautions, as described, however, wonld not afford complete security against
such change, since, so far as appears from the description, the marks might
have been imitated.
As to turning over, there is not enough precision in the accounts to enable
us to judge whether, on the hypothesis of conjuring, we must suppose the slates
to have been either turned over, or turned in their own plane. But I do not see
that any mark would prevent this which was not (a) visible all the time the
slate was under the table !Lnd (b) observed during all that time. From what is
said, I should infer that condition (a) and therefore necessarily condition (b)
was absent; for it is Mr. Eglinton's thumb, and not the frame ofthe slate, or any
mark on it, that is mentioned as continuously villible. (Compare Professor
CarviIl Lewis's description of the position at the beginning of his first seance,
p. 353.) Under these circumstances, the utmost the marks could do was to
make it easier for the sitters to see whether the side which was uppermost just
Digi z 2
340 Accou.nts 0/ some So-called "Spiritualutic" Sla'ltCe8.
Mr. Eglinton sat at one side of a square table, which was not covered by any
cloth. At hill right hand, dOle to the Ilate when held in position, at the
comer of the table, sat Mr. Johnson, keenly scrutinilling every movement of
Mr. Eglinton. Oppoaite to the medium was Dr. Speer with bill eyea fixed
on the alate without, as I can teatiIy 8IIuredly,1 any lack of "continuous
obBervation." (In a letter to me Dr. Speer remarka after reading my Il&IT&-
tive, "I have no alteration whatever to luggeat. I may _rt, however,
that upon each occasion that the alate was placed under the table I ne\"'er
once lost Bight of Eglinton'B thumb until the alate was again placed on
the table.")* Next to Mr. Eglinton I sat, using, to the beat of my ability,
luch powera of obaervation BB I am endowed with. I will be 10 bold as to
say that it would not be eBBy to find three peraonl who, by long experience
of paychical phenomena and careful thought about them in two of 111, and in
the third CIIC by trained habits of accurate scientific obBervation and thought,
were more competent to expreu an opinion BB to what occurred. I will say
further that any l&Ile man, with eyes in hiB head and the power of uaing
them, would be fully competent to teatify to that which we obaerved. The
only alates uled during the Bitting were my two school.a1atea: and the folding
alate with lock. familiar to the public BB being in regular UIIC at Mr. Eglin-
ton'l littinga: nor were there any other alatea on or near the table at which
we sat.
Mr. JohnBOn, as an inveatigator new to Mr. Eglinton, was requeated to
commence the firat experiment by writing a queation on one of my a1atea.
I luggeat.ed that the queatkn ahould be one not involving special knowledge.
but one that could be readily answered. While Mr. Johnaon wrote his
queation we all turned away from the table. It iB certain that nonA of ua
could _ or know what was written.s The alate was held by Mr. Eglinton
under the comer of the t.,,,ble, between him and Mr. Johnaon. The thumb
of the hand which BUpported the slate was continuoualy visible above the
surface of the table. The query was, What iB the sum of 50 x 60 7 The
&nawer was written after considerable waiting: 3,000. The figures were
Itraggling and ill·made.'
before the alate WBB put under the table, WBB also uppermost just after it W88
drawn out.
I If "M. A. (Oxon)" can BBluredly testify to the continuous observation
of Dr. Speer, he must have b!len continuouBly oblerving him; in which caae he
cannot have been also efficiently oblerving Mr. Eglinton.
I No re8BOn is given f(>r certainty that Mr. Eglinton could not see or know
what 11'88 written. Probably he did not know, however, Bnd hence, perhaps,
the neceuity for the subsequent" considerable waiting" while he aacertained.
4 Thil first experiment consisted of two parts; the reading of a question
8IIumed to be unknown to the medium and presumably written on one or other
side of the slate which he held under the table; and the writing of an answer on
the slate under the table. Compare ProfC880r Carvill Lewill's experienCCl!.
pp. 354,3M. For accounts of writing by an avowed conjurer on a slate held under
the comer of the table, with the thumb of the hand continually visible, see Mr.
Davey's paper, Sitting II, Reports 1 and 2 [a] pp. 426, 429. For questions in·
acceaBible to a conjurer, read and answered by him, see Mr. Davey'S Sitting
VI [a] p. 448, and elsewhere.
• These bracketed sentences appeared 88 a foot-note in the original.
Digitized by Coogle
AccO'Unts of some So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances. 341
The next experiment W88 this. I took out of my pocket-book five blank
cheques. These cheques had been placed by me in my pocket-book at the
end of last July. I had not looked at the numbe1'8 as I tore them from my
cheque-book, nor when I put them into my pocket-book, nor had I ever
removed them or any of them since they were so placed. They were folded
into four parts, and the selected cheque W88 not unfolded before being placed
in the slate. I requested Mr. Johnson to select one of them. He did so,
and without looking at its number, I took it from him and placed it within
the folding-slate which Mr. Eglinton uses. Mr. Johnson locked the slate,
and placed the key on the table before him. We fi1'8t endeavoured to get a
message on one of my slates as to the possibility of getting the number of
the cheque written on the locked slate. The experiment was difficult, and
we did not wish to waste time. The answer came, ., We will try." The
locked slate, which had been all the time in full view, and which no amount
of spare keys would have made it possible for Mr. Eglinton to unlock, was
then taken by Mr. Eglinton and held under the comer of the table next to
Mr. Johnson. At (nice, without appreciable interval, there came the per-
fectly audible sound of writing. The slate on being withdrawn and unlocked
by Mr. Johnson was found to have upon it
C 16046
I
That was the number of my cheque as ¥erified by all of us at once. It was
wholly impOBBible for Mr. Eglinton to have seen my cheque, or to write on
the slate, for the reason that the locked slate was held in position under the
comer of the table in Buch a way that the thumb of the hand holding it was
continuously mible.6
At this point in our experiments I suggested that the two docto1'8 should
test Mr. Eglinton's pulse. I had noticed that he was very considerably con-
vulsed before our eal'B attested that writing was being done. I myself was
I I think it probable that a lapse of memory-a complete omission-has
occurred in respect to this experiment, and that, though the fact has been forgot-
te~, the locked slate was held under the table for a short time directly after the
cheque was enclosed. It was then,'I suspect, that Mr. Eglinton read the cheque,
and wrote the number, after wbich it was probably he who led up to the sug-
gestion that, as they did not seem to be succeeding, they should try to get a
message on another slate as to the possibility of obtaining the phenomenon they
desired. This proceeding would natnrally make any previous dealing with the
locked slate seem unimportant, and make it likely to fade quickly from the
memory. I am confirmed in this view by Professor Carvill Lewis's experience
in the course of a similar experiment, see pp. 31;6, 357. If no such previous
process be supposed, there seems to be a certain inconsequence in tbe behaviour
of the sitters; for why, if there was «priori reason to think the experiment likely
to waste time, did they go through the process of selecting and locking up the
cheque before inqubing of the spirits on the subject! Complete forgetfulness of
really important incidents undoubtedly occurs; see for example the Appendix to
Mr. Davey's article, Notes 1 and 17 to Sitting II pp. 488,489, and Notes 1
and 6 to Sitting III p. 490.
For reading questions and writing answers in locked slates by a conjurer,
see Mr. Davey's article, Sittinb
'8 VI [a] p. 448, XI [a] p. 469, XII [6] p. 471,
and XIII [b] p. 472.
Digitized by Coogle
./
342 Accounts of some So-called "Spirituali8tic" StamC4
limilarly aft'ected, and I felt able to tell by my own seDIILtiona when the
writing W81 about to be executed. My own seDIILtionl were of a convulaive
character, with oocaaionallJl8llmodic jerb when (81 I conceive) paychic force
wu being thrown oft'. Mr. Eglinton'l pulll8, on being tried by the two
medical men, W81 found to be calm, lteady, healthy, and normal, but rather
feeble for a perlOn of hiB excellent phYlique. My own pulll8 wu not teated ;
but I fancy it would have been found, on trial, to be accelerated in lpeed.
Dr. Speer now wilhed to 81k a verbal question. The AaU hawing buR
placed in poaition, he inquired whether any relation of biB were prell8nt. The
llate (my own) W81 held by Mr. EgIinton u before, and the writing came at
_-I .y, and I mean, immediately-" There are sel"erai prell8nt, but we
have no power to tell of them." I
I then BIked, not audibly, but writing my question on one of my own
llatel, "Do you 1188 any friend of mine 1 Give one name." Nine minutes
elapaed before the writing came. On withdrawing the IIlate we found in
quite diltinct writing from that obtained before,
+ Imperator.
The writing wu very clear and decided ; the letten carefully and prettily
formed j and it wu limilar to that which characterilea biBlignature in my
boob of automatic writing. The name wu quite unexpected by me, and
came 81 a IUrprill8, for I had recently inquired for him without IUCC8118.'
It W8I then luggested by Mr. Egl!nton that we Mould endeavour to
obtain writing under an inverted tumbler placed on one of my lIatea and
prelll8d against the under lurface of the table. I, on the Ipur of the moment,
uked Mr. Johnson to select a number under ten. He picked fil"e. Dr. Speer,
Iimilarly 81ked, selected nine. I chOll8 four. The combined numben made
594. I uked that that combination of numben should be written under the
inverted tumbler. Itwu done at OtICe j with no appreciable interval of writing
after the Ilate W81 in polition ; the sound of writing W&8 quite audible; the
figures were bold and decided-l"ery different from those that were made in
the first experiment.8 Then" Good-bya," and the litting 11"&8 anded.
Now it seems to me that only the mOlt perver118 ingenuity can diBtort
evidence of thiB quality into a mere record of conjuring tricb; or luggeat
I FOT an answer to a verbal question coming immediately on the sitter's
own slate under the table, see Mr. lJavay's article, Sitting I, Repor~ 1 [c) p. 421.
7 The remarks in note 'apply here. I need only add that we cannot
&B8ume the signature of II Imperntor" to have been unknown to Mr.
Eglinton. The superiority of the writing to that in the first experiment may
probably have been due to an accidentally better opportunity for executing it.
I suspectthat litters are often more watchful during the tirst experiment than
during later ones. Compare, fOT handwriting varying in excellence with
opportunity, Profe880r Carvill Lewis's experience, pp. 365, 366.
• Compare Professor Carvill Lewis's account of a similar phenomenon and
its mode of perfonnance, p. 362. I suspect, however, that in the present case
Mr. Eglinton found the opportunity of writing the figures before the slate waa
in position. He may have written each number &8 it was chosen. For a per-
formance by an avowed coujurer resembliug this, so far u the tumbler is
concerned, but perhaps more striking, see Mr. Davey's article, Sitting II,
Report 1 [e) p. 428, and Sitting XVI [Il] p. 482.
Digitized by Coogle
Accownts 0/ WIne &-called "SpiTitu,alistic" Seances. 343
that the experimenta were vitiated by lack of "continuous observation" ; or
that we, the obaerven. were not competent to obBerve and record what
occurred under the most careful scrutinyby our three pain of watchful eyes.e
For my part it Be8ma neceaaary only to mention such criticism in order to
brand it as the outcome of ineradicable prejudice. It is mere waste of time
to argue with it. It is, I fear, hopeleaa to expect that it would be modified or
revened by any amount of testimony even of the highest quality and value.
I will not, therefore, take up space by showing how ludicrously inapplicable
is the conjuring explanation to what we witn88118d.
It is, I think, greatly to be desired that the attention of phyaiologiata
mould be drawn to the state of the psychic during the time when these
phenomena are in proce88. For example, before writing is heard on the
slate, Mr. Eglinton is nervous, anxious, and his body is usually much
contorted. His face sometimes wears an expreBBion of pained anxiety and
almost of nervous apprehension. When the slate is withdrawn this gives
way to an expre88ion of relief. His fingen are cold, as though from the
withdrawalof energy. Sometimes he shivers as though chilled. The presence
of a qualified surgeon, who might be able to make a Beries of careful
observationS at sittings for psychography, and eapecially for materialiaation,
is greatly to be desired. I may add, by way of fixing attention on the qualitJ
of this evidence ;-
1. That moat of the writing occurred on my own slates ; and that there
were no other slates on the table or within Mr. Eglinton's reach, so
that suggestions of change are excluded.,lO
2. That no one in the room had ever Been the number of my cheque, so
that suggestions of thought-transference are excluded.
3. That in two cases the writing was immediate on the request being
made. It was done on my slate, and therefore the suggestions of
previous preparations and of writing under the table by the medium
are excluded.l1
4. That the fragment of pencil or chalk placed on the alate, and pre-
vioualy marked for identification, was found in all cases to have ita
facet slightly worn away by use, and that it rested on the spot
where the writing terminated.lJ
• We have no means of knowing that the witneaaes on this OCCUlon were
better observers or more careful than the recorders of similar marvels at Mr.
Davey's seances, and the lack of precise statement about the position of the
slates under the table, the position of the writing-both questions and
answers-and about the watching of the marks made for identification on the
slates, suggests a lack of careful observation; while there are other indica·
tions-to some of which I havecalled attention--that the recorder of this .eance
was unaware of the difficulties of observation.
10 As before stated there is no reason to suppose any change of slates, but
the sitters cannot have known that Mr. Eglinton had none concealed, e.g.
about his person, or his chair.
1J See nolie8 8 and 8; and for a case, with a conjurer, of a long meaaage
on the sitters' own slates on the table beginning" almost instantaneously,"
which of course is more than was· obtained at the seance under consideration,
see Mr. Davey's article, Sitting I, Reports 1 and 2 [g] pp. 421, 424.
12 Compare Mr. Davey's article, Sitting I, ReP,9rt I., Inhd~
Digitized DY \SOU<3Ie'
34.4. .Accounts oj some So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances.
o. That the thumb of the hand that IUpported the alate wu continu01llly
visible to all the observers; aud that they severally noticed that it
wu 1O.1S
6. That Mr. Eglinton voluntarily presented his right hand to Mr.
Johnson in order that he might _ that he had no trick·thimble or
conjuring apparatOl concealed in his Ileeve.1t Norwould the presence
there of any apparatOl whatever have enabled him to do by trick.
what, in our opinion, proved concluaively the presence &Illong 01 of
an intelligence external to our own, acting on tnatter in a way that
no hypothesis of conjuring will explain. .. M.A. (OXON.)'''
Thill account hM been lubmitted to 01. We agree that the phenomena,
witneaaed by 01, are accuntely deacribed in it, without exaggeration, and
without omiuion of any important detail. W. G. JOHNSON.
STANBOPB T. SPUR.
The next case was printed in Light for January 15, 1887, as "from
a correspondent who has had large and long experience in the
observation of abnormal phenomena," and who also is a graduate of
the University of Oxford.
SIB,-I venture to Bend you an accoWlt of a aMnC8 which I had with Mr.
Eglinton on Monday, December 13th, 1886, M it seeml to me to present
lOme points of lpecial interest which deserve to be placed on record. The
seance WM held at 6, Nottingham-place, and I WM accompanied by my wife
and her lilter, Mill PhilIipPI. We met at 12.30 p.m. in a Imall room at the
back of the house, which WM well lighted by one large window. Mr.
Eglinton At on one side of a square table, which WM not covered by any
cloth, and WM carefully examined by all of 01. At his right hand, clOl8 to
the alate when it WM held in position at the comer of the table, At my wife.
who baa unulually good eyesight, and keenly watched all his movements.
I WM opposite to the medium, and next to me At Mill Phillippe at the
comer of the table opposite to my wife. Mr. Eglinton placed on the table
his folding-alate with a lock, 10 often deacribed in your columna, and two
Ichool-Ilatel, which were under our observation throughout the seance, and
could not by any pollibility have been changed. At the commencement of
the proceedings the two ladiOl each wrote a question on Mr. Eglinton'.
achool-llates, which we had carefully cleaned, holding them 10 that no one
but themselvel could see what WM written. Mr. Eglinton tint took the
llate my wife had used, and placed it ill position under the comer of the
table. We then joined handa: Mill Phillipps laid both her ha.nda on my
right hand: my left WM in my wife'l right hand: and Mr. Eglinton'.
observation 5, p. 420. Sitting VII, Report 2, pMtscript, p. 457. Sitting IX,
Reports 1 and 2 [I] pp. 4-62,464. Sitting XI [e] p. 4-69. Sitting XIII [6] p.
472. Compare 0.180 Professor Ca.rvill Lewis'8 remarks, pp. 355, 356, 367, 368.
IS Compare Mr. Davey's article, Sitting I, Report I, preliminary observa-
tion 3, p. 420, and Sitting II, Reports 1 and 2 [a] pp. 426,429. Also Professor
Carvill Lewis's experience, pp. 360, 361, 365.
I' Probably most of us have seen conjurers turn up their sleeves to prove
that there is no deception.
Digitized by Coogle
AcCO'UniB of 801M So-called "BpirittwliBtic" Seances. 345
left hand was placed on her left: while his right hand supported the slate
when it was placed in position between him and my wife. His thumb was
continuously visible above the surface of the table whenever he held a slate
under it.IIi Nearly an hour p_d without manifestations, and at length Mr.
Eglinton suggested that the slates should be changed.11 He then placed in
poaition the slate on which Miss Phillipps had written her question, and laid
on the table near my wife the slate which he had first taken, keeping the
writing downwards, BO that it could not poB8ibly be seen. Very soon after
this change had been made, writing was heard by all of us ; when it ceased, .
tlie slate was withdrawn, and an answer was found to my wife's question.
consisting of two words, and the initials (If the friend to whom the question
had been addreB8ed.17 On examining the piece of pencil placed on the slate,
and previously marked for identification, we found that on this, as on
several subsequent occaaions, the facet had been worn by use.18 My wife then
wrote another question underneath the same slate, and requested that the
answer might be written with a piece of blue chalk which was laid upon the
top of it. The slate was plaoed in position. and in less than three minutes an
answer was written in six words with blue chalk.IU It was then suggested by
Mr. Eglinton that each of us should name a number and the colour of the
chalk in which we wished it written. MiB8 Phillipps asked for 8 in red, I
chose 49 in blue, and my wife 72 in green. Taking one of the school-slates,
Mr. Eglinton placed it in position with three pieces of coloured chalk upon
it, and almost inlmedistely the numbers were written in the colours
asked for.:III
I had brought with me a small box carefully closed, the contelAts of
which were unknown to all of us, and MiBB Phillipps a sealed envelope, in
which she had placed a bank-note. This note had been sent to her by post,
and she had not looked at its number. The box and envelope were then
laid on a slate which Mr. Eglinton held as usual, and we requested that the
contents of the box and the number of the note might be given. Writing
was heard at once, and the slate on being withdrawn was found to have the
following sentence upon it : "A key is in the box: if you put the bank-note
in the locked slate we will write the number." MiB8 Phillipps accordingly
opened the envelope, and took out the bank-note, which was folded with the
number inside, and, without unfolding it or allowing anyone present to see
111 See references in note 13.
l' It is not unlikely that this change gave him the BOught for opportunity
of reading the question.
17 See Prof8Sll0r Carvin Lewis's account, pp. 355, 365. And for an answer
to a known question written by a conjurer on a slate under the tablt', see Mr.
Davey's article, Sitting I, Report 1 [c] and [lmn] pp. 421,423. Sitting V [b]
p. 446, XIII [a] p. 472.
18 See references in note 12.
1U The comparative rapidity with which this answer seems to have been
given suggests, if the account be correct, that Mr. Eglinton may have seen the
question before putUng the slate under the table.
20 I conjecture that Mr. Eglinton wrote these numbers as they were
selected, and before placing the slate under the table; but there is no
insuperable difficulty in supposing that he did it afterwards under the table.
Compare Professor Carvill Lewia's experience, p. 362.
Digitized by Coogle
346 Acc0un&t8 oj BOm8 So-calkd .. Spi,ritualiBtic" Seance&.
it, she put it in Mr. Eglinton's folding·slate after marking it with red chalk.
She then locked the slate, and keeping the key on the table near her, and in
full view the whole time, she handed it to Mr. Eglinton. He and my wife
then laid their left handa upon it, while with his right he placed a school-
slate in position. Writing 11'&1 heard at once, and on looking at it we found
that the number given 11'&1 9'1606. lIIiu Phillipps then unlocked the folding-
slate, and looked at the bank-note: the number 11'&1 given quite correctly,
and the mark in red chalk 11'&1 on the note.1l
At this point the gu 11'&1 lighted, .. the day 11'&1 gloomy, and it was
kept alight during the remainder of the Mance. Beaides the box above
mentioned I had brought with me a folding-slate carefully f&ltened by
gummed paper on the aide opposite to the hinges: the frame of the alate
fitted very clOll8I" and the hinges were perfectly secure. I had placed in it
a marked florin, and i. small piece of .late pencil, and it had been lying 00
the tahle in full view during the whole of the Mance. Placing hi. left hand
on this slate Mr. Eglinton put a IChool-slate in position, and we BIked that
the number (i.e., date) of the florin might be written in the folding-slate.
The following sentence 11'&1 then written on the IChool-s1ate :-
"We regret that, though our power is strong to-day, we have not the
ability to write in the clOlied slate. We do not see the number of the florin
clearly because there are no numerals, but we think it is 1876."II
Now the florin bore the date mdccclxxiii., and wu IOmewhat worn, 10
that the number "iii " might eaIiIy be confounded with that of .. vi." We
then ..ked that the florin might be taken out or the folding-slate, which
Mr. Eglinton now placed in poeitioo under the table: he lOOn became very
much convulsed, his wrist, which 11'&1 in full view, ahowing the strain put
upon him by the veins and ainews standing out in bold relief: his breath
came spasmodically, and we all felt a atrong inftuencc, when auddenly the
florin 11'&1 thrown out with oonsiderable force and struck the wall three yanlB
distant, rebounding from it and falling on the ground about two yards from
the medium'a chair. My wife 1&11' the florin &I it pused under ~Ir. Eglinton's
left arm, and she made an exclamation &I it fluhed under the gaslight: owing
to the poeition in which she I&t she 11'&1 able to see it before myaeU and Mias
Phillipps. The 1I0rin had been marked with a P in ink, and a P ICratched on
the metal, and these marks ware distinctly visible. On examining the slate,
we could not detect the smallest aperture, and the gummed paper wu intact.
Before this manifestation occurred, the table 11'&1 violently agitated, and 11'&1
entirely railed from the ground six or eight inches.a I then requested that a
21 See references in Dote 0.
21 Mr. Eglinton was doubtless aware that florins are dated in Roman
numerals, and hazarded a guess at the date.
D We are not told whether the folding-slate in question was varnished or
not, nor its size, nor the size and mode of application of the gummed paper,
and therefore cannot judge of the security of the f&ltening. Gummed paper
generally adheres very insecurely to varnished or polished wooden surfaceR,
and can easily be removed and replaced without injury. After reading this
account I enclosed a half-crown piece in a hinged slate of my own, and fastenfld
it along the middle of the side opposite the hinges with a piece of gummed
paper two or three inches long. I then with !'Ome little .tro)tblenfnt out the
Digitized by ~uu(5.e
.Accownts of senne So-called "Spiritual1
,stic" Seances. 347
number which I gave, namely, 5420, mi~ht he wri~ten in my folding-slate.
Mr. Eglinron placed it on the table with his left hand upon it, and held a
achool-slate in position. We were not aware a~ the time whether my request
had been complied with, but a long communication was received from the
medium's guide, Ernest, which was written very rapidly, and quite filled
one side of the school-slate." Whilst this was being written, my wife, at Mr.
Eglinron's request, placed her hand under the slate, supporting it, 8.1! he
generally does;16 and she informed us that she distinctly felt the vibration
caused by the movement of the pencil. The last communication was, .. We
cannot do more. Good-bye." On our return home, we opened my folding-
alate, and found clearly written within it the four figures 6420 which I had
aaked for.- There was no key in the box, but a small metal knife and two or
three other things. The sMnce was in many respects of unusual interest,
and there are several points on which comment might be made; but I
must not trespass further on your space. I will only add that Mr. Eglinron
never left the table, that he was perfectly willing to try any experiment which
we suggested, and that, 80 far as the sitters were concerned, there was no
lack of " continuous observation."
36, Bryanston-street, W. F. W. PERCIVAL.
P.S.-I have omitted to state that before placing the closed slate in
position, Mr. Eglinron shook it, and toe all heard a solid object mcnnng within
it, which made a BOUnd such as w01dd halJfl been made by my marked florin.-
F. W.P.
After reading the above account we are of opinion that the phenomena
witnessed by us are accurately described in it, and that no important detail
baa been omitted. L. M. PHILLIPPS.
ISA.BELLA PERCIVAL.
The Editor of Light adds:-
There are in this careful and precise record some points which receive
an added interest and importance from recent discussions.
Mr. Percival carried with him a folding-slate secured by gummed paper.
We have had opportunity of seeing how that slate was secured, and we have
no hesitation in asserting that it was beyond the reach of human ingenuity
half-crown. In doing so I somewhat disturbed one end of thc gummed paper,
but was able to replace it without any difficulty, so as to give it the appearance
of being intact. Perhaps I could have avoided disturbing the paper hod it
adhered better.
~ Probably a previously-writtsn communication. A convenient oppor-
tunity for placing the slate containing it on the table may have occurred while
the florin was being picked up and discussed. For a similar phenomenon
compare Mr. Davey's article, Sitting XI lb] p. 469.
Z Thus possibly setting free Mr. Eglinton's right hand, so that he could
manipulate the closed slate. It would, however, be quite in accordance with
the experience of other sitters to suppose that Mr. Percival had named his
number earlier than is stated, in which case it may have been written under
the table at the time of the removal of the florin. Compare Mr. Davey's
article, Appendix, Note 8 ro Sitting I, p. 487. And for a similar trans-
position of an important act, Notes 1 and 3 to Sitting XV, p. 494-
,. Compare Mr. Davey's article, Sitting XIII [cJ p. 4i2. ized by Google
348 Acc01.lInts of 8C>'1M So-called "SpirituaJ,istic" Seance&.
to get at its inner surfacea without disturbing the fastening in a way that
must at once have been obvious. Yet from that folding-slate a marked florin
was unquestionably removed, and the gummed paper, carefully inspected by
three witnellBell, was found to be intact.
Moreover, within this alate, so BeCUred, a dictated number, 5420, was
written j and this fact was not verified until the slate was opened in Mr.
Percival'a own hoUle. We have then theae clear facts in evidence:-
1. That a slate containing a markod florin and a fragment of alate-pencil
was so aecurely fastened by Mr. Percival before lea,-jug home that
it was physically impOBBible for anyone by ordinary means to get at
its inner aurfaces.17
2. That Mr. Percival himaelf carried that slate to Mr. Eglinton'a house.
placed it on the table, and kept it under continuoUB observation
throughout the whole time that he was there.-
3. That during the seance his marked florin was violently thrown from
under tho table, was picked up from the floor. examined on the apot,
and idelltifiod : the fBllteniugs of the alate remaining quite intact.
4. That a particular number. conaiating of four figures, was, in obedience
to Mr. Percival's request, written within this folding-alate, as verified
by himaelf on his return home.
5. That the faatenings of the slate were intact when it was taken by Mr.
Percival from Mr. Eglinton's hoUle, and that thOle fastenings were
not broken in his presence.
There has been much demand of late for "continuoua observation" to
be exerciaed by obaervera of thl'ae payohical phenomena; and there has been
also much talk of the powera of conjuren to aimulate these phenomena. We
auggest that the narrative of Mr. Percival supplies material eminenUy
deserving of the careful attentioll of thOle who think that professed
mediumship is a variety of conjuring. Will the Society for Psychical
Research offer a sufficient inducemont to any conjurer who will undertake to
duplicate some half-dozen of the phenomena that have been recorded in our
columor;211 who will further demonstrate that he has no abnormal PIIychics
gifts to aid him; and, lastly, who will clearly ahow in every case the
methoda employed by him 7
There are illany interesting and suggestive points in Mr. Percival's narra-
tive. It would seem that the agent, in IIpite of the presence of abundant
'11 I have explained above (note 21) my reasons for doubting this.
III This statement, 80 far as it relates to Mr. Percival's continuous (\bserva·
tion of the hinged slate, would, if IItrictly tme, seem inconsistent with his
account of this slate heing held under the table. Moreover it wouM scarcely be
consistent with careful observation of the earlier events of the seance, some of
which must in that case apparently have been described by Mr. Percival from
the observation of the other sitten-e.g. the exanrining of the fragments of
pencil.
211 What is, in effect, an answer by Mr. Hodgson to this and similarsugges-
tions, will be found in the next article, pp. 389, 390. I ought, however, to remind
the reader that the Society, as a body, is not committed to the views expreeeed
by Mr. Hodgson and myself, or by any other contributor to its Proceeding. or
Journal.
Digitized by Coogle
Accou.nts of 80me So-caUed "Spiritualistic" Seances. 349
" power," had difficulty in perceiling, with any exactitude, objects that
were not enclosed in Mr. Eglinton's slate. This is in accordance with our
own experience, and is reasonable and intelligible. The contents of the
cloeed box, not known (be it observed) to any person present, were wrongly
given, but in Buch a way aB to suggest that the real object had been imper-
fectly Been.30 The date of the florin WaB written in a way that BUggests the
same conclusion. The number of the bank-note could not be seen at all
until it WaB transferred to the closed slate always used by the medium, when
its number was at once- correctly given, though the note wall folded with the
number inside, and WaB placed in the slate without being unfolded, and WaB
marked for purpose of identification.
We confess we see no room for the exercise of the conjuror's art under
circUlUBtanceS such aB those detailed by Mr. Percival. It will he for those
who rely on that explanation to show that these phenomena can be repro-
duced by conjurers who demonstrably have not abnormal psychic powers to
aid them.
These are favourable specimens of the results which have given
Eglinton his exceptional position in the Spiritualistic world, and on
the strength of which he was selected to read a paper as an
accredited exponent of Spiritualistic doctrine, at a recent meeting of
the London Spiritualist Alliance. And probably most persons
who approach the phenomena of modem Spiritualism in a serious
spirit would think that such evidence as has been quoted consti-
tutes a certain pri'T11d. facie case for the conclusion which
Spiritualists draw from it. It seems scarcely leas rash to deny
than to affirm, as a mere matter of general impression and "common-
sense," that the conditions of observation were adequate. The question
is one that needs most careful examination by special methods. The
results of such an examination will be found in Mr. Davey's paper a.
little further on; but it may assist the reader if he comes to that paper
with a realisation of BOme preliminary facta.
In the first place, then, even those who regard the conditions of
observation which obtained in the above cases as adequate, must
admit that they are broadly the same in kind as those which obtain in
conjuring performances, where the opportunity for the trick is
found in a. temporary distraction or skilful misdirection of the
observer's attention. There may be a difference of de[rree j that
is to say, the points to be observed may have been easier to
observe, inasmuch as they were obvious beforehand; and the
attention may have been proportionately harder to distract. But
however much allowance be made for this, it is impOBBible to regard the
conditions in question as equally perfect with others involving no
10 If the word "heard" were 8ubstituted for the word "seen" iB this
eentence, the true explanation would perhaps be SUlI'geated. .. G I
Digitized by oog e
350 Accounts of some So-caJl,ed" Spiritualistic" Siances.
strain of attention, and no opportunity for distraction. Such conditions
would be supplied, for instance, by a hermetically-cl08ed vessel, whose
weight and volume had been accurately determined before the seance
began. If writing appeared on a slip of paper enclosed in such a vessel,
it would probably be admitted, by even the most convinced Spiritualist,
that security had been made doubly secure. Humanum eat errare ; snd
the fact that nothing at all had depended on the exercise of the experi-
menter's human and therefore fallible faculties during the critical time
when the mysterious occurrence took place must, 80 far, be an improve-
ment of the evidence. It is at least noteworthy, then, that no such feat
as this has ever been recorded. So far as I know, there is no good
evidence that results claimed for mediumship have ever been
unmists.keably produced in a space shut off, wholly without aper-
tures, from the external world; or in any circumstances whatever
where there would have been a difficulty in producing them by obvious
natural means, apart from the question whether or not the medium was
under adequa.te observation at the time. This is a general fact, which
clearly makes the determination of the question as to adequacyofobser-
vation all-important.
In the second place, it must be remembered that the presumption, in
Eglinton's case, is in favour of fraud, since he has been undoubtedly
detected in the production of fraudulent phenomena. Some evidence of
this has been given in the JO'III1"'TI4l of the Society. In one case, which
occurred in 1876, the muslin and beard worn by the so-called
materialised·spirit, and from which pieces were cut, were subsequently
found in Eglinton's portmanteau. The details are given in the
Journa,l for June and November, 1886, as gathered from the Medium
and Df1I!Jbreak for November 1 and 15, 1878, and the Spiritualist for
February 14 and March 21, 1879. In a.nother case, in 1882,
Eglinton co-operated with the notorious Madame BlavII.tsky in pro-
ducing the appearance of the occult transmission of a letter from the
ship Vega in mid ocean to Calcutta. The details will be found in
Hints on Esoteric Theosophy, and in the Report on PkenoTM1Ia
connected with T1UJosophy in the Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. III.,
pp. 264-256; and an abstract of the case appeared in the Journal
for June, 1886, pp. 283-287. In 1880, Mr. Eglinton was again
detected-as the evidence ~ be found in PllJlchiscke Studien for June
and July, 1880, seems clearly to show-in himself producing the
movements of objects, &c., at a dark seance at Munich; though
Spiritualists allege certain special reasons, which will be found in the
numbers of PllJlchiBcke Studien referred to, for doubting the validity
of this "exposure."
The above facts seem conclusive as to Eglinton's character during a
considerable period of his career; but they have been objected to as
Digitized by Coogle
Accownts of 80me So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances. 351
irrelevant to the more recent phenomena of slate-writing, on the ground
that in respect of these no accounts of detected fraud have hitherto
been published. It might be replied that people who detect fraud of
the kind are not, as a rule, disposed instantly to rush into print. They
gain nothing by doing so; while they are likely to encounter a certain
amount of ridicule for having even given the a.lleged phenomena a trial,
to say nothing of the risk of an action for libel. It is within our
knowledge that more tha.n one case has occurred of the same kind as
that of which the following account has been placed in our hands by
a la.dy who prefers that her name should not appear.
"February 5th, 1887.
" I will give, as far as I can remember, an account of our seance
with Mr. Eglinton. My friend, Mr. Godfrey Webb, made an
appointment with him, giving his name, but not my name. When we
arrived at Mr. Eglinton's house he made us sit round a table, which
had no cover, and was close to a looking-glass, which reflected every-
thing that was done. He placed me between himself and Mr. Webb,
a.nd we held each other's hands while he placed a slate under the table
with his left hand. After a little while we heard a scratching from the
slate, and when he produced it there were one or two words written on
it. This process was repeated several times, but we all thought it very
unsatisfactory. Mr. Eglinton remarked the spirit was not very
willing, and that we had better talk, as it would help it to manifest
itself. I must add that while he was holding the slate under the
table, and we heard the scratching, he seemed suffering from a kind of
convulsion. His face was livid a.nd contorted, and the perspiration
was running down it; his breathing was also hard. He asked me to
think of somebody from whom I should wish to get a message, which I
did; and then a few words were a.gain scratched on the slate, but with
no partiCUlar meaning-which I told him. He then said, 'This is not
at all satisfactory; let 'us change places.' I moved to where Mr. Webb
was, and he took my place. At the same time Mr. Eglinton said, ' We
must also change the slates'; Bnd while he was doing so I distinctly saw
him run his hand over a slate; his hand was clenched. I asked him to
let me see the writing on the slate, to which he said, 'Oh, there is
nothing.' I said, 'Yes, there is; please let me see it.' He showed it
to me, and I saw the beginning of a sentence. He then said, 'I was
only scribbling.' But as he had no pencil in his hand, it must have
been with a small pencil lead, which he placed in his closed
hand (not his fingers), and which I could not see, as it was too small.
He used the same kind of small lead for the slates (which he placed be-
tween the two slates before he locked them up). After this incident he
became angry, and said, ,It is of no use to try, as you are incredulous
and suspicious the spirit will not come,' and we then left him.'C' I
Digitized by oog e
352 Accounts of 8Q1M So-called "Spiritualistic" seances.
Mr. Godfrey's Webb's general view is that mediums are ready to
"supplement any genuine power they may possess by quite ordinary
tricks"; and while unable to attribute to trickery some of tbe
phenomena which he has witnessed in Eglinton's presence, he says, "I
do not wish to deny that - - detected Mr. Eglinton, on the occasion
you refer to, wliting words on a slate; and I rejoiced at her astuteness
at the time."
It is impossible in this case to doubt the conviction of both sitters
at the time that they had detected trickery, though owing to tbe
long interval (nearly 3 years) between the sitting and the recording
of it, stress ought not to be laid on the details. This objection does
not apply to the careful record of Professor Carvill Lewis, to which
it is now high time that the reader should be introduced.
ACCOUNT FROM PROFESSOR H. CARVILL LEWIS.
Nunlerous and marvellous statements have recently appeared in
Tarious pUblications concerning the manifestations produced at the
seances of the famous medium Mr. W. Eglinton; and in the Spiritualist
paper, Light, for October 16th, 1886, an immenae ID&88 of testimony,
by about one hundred different observers, many of them of high.
intellectUII.I ability and social position, is given to show that the slat&-
writing and accompanying phenomena occurring at his seances are not
due to any deliberate action on the part of the medium, but to some
unknown force, or, as one writer puts it, "conclusively establish the
existence of some objective, intelligent force, capable of acting exter-
nally to the medium, and in contravention of the recognised laws of
matter." * These various statements,t suggesting a new field of
• Light, No. 302, p. 488.
t Profe8llOrs N. Wagner, A. Boutlerof, and A. Dobroelavin, of the
University of St. Petersburg, concluded an account of a seance with Mr.
Eglinton as follows :-" After witn888ing the experiments above described we
have come to tbe conclu8ion : (1) That the mediumistic autDgraphic-lITiting is
genuine, and cannot be referred to the domain of prestidigitation, or explained
by the help onlv of generally-recognised mechanical, physical, or chemical
laws. (2) That it can manifest an intelligence of its own not depending to a
certain degree upon that of those who assist at the sc!anceB; and (3) This
phenomenon, by its objectivity, especially afforda facility for observation, &lid
deserves full attention and investigation from competent person8 and
inBtitutions." (Journal of the S.P.R., Vol. II., p. 331.) The President of the
London Spiritualist Alliance aaya:-" It is to me wholly inconceivable that
anyone C&D entertain doubt as te the genuineneB8 of thOle phenomena."
Digitized by Coogle
Accounts of some So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances. 353
scientific interest, induced me to visit Mr. Eglinton for purposes of
investigation. I have endeavoured to make the following account
as accurate as possible, having written it immediately afterwards
from full notes taken during the sMnces.
First Seance.
Having called upon Mr. Eglinton the previous evening and made
an appointment, I visited him at noon on November 16th, and was
ushered into his study. A common wooden table, which had apparently
seen rough usage and was covered by a tablecloth, stood in the middle
of the room, which was well lighted. Mr. Eglinton expressed disap-
pointment that I had not brought a second person with me, as he
had requested. He said that it might be difficult to get results with
only one. I had, however, purposely come alone, prepared to observe
carefully and without prejudice.
Mr. Eglinton asked me to write one question on the slate which
I had brought with me, and another question on one of his own slates.
He left the room while I wrote the questions, at my request, and
afforded me an opportunity to satisfy myself that the slate and table
were ordinary ones, and in no way prepared, as I was convinced after
careful examination. He entered when I called, and seated himself
near one corner of the table, placing me on the other side of the same
corner, the cloth having been removed and a short leaf put up. He
took his own slate, on the under side of which was my question, and
putting upon it a minute fragment of slate-pencil, placed it under the
table, holding it against the under side of the table-leaf with the four
fingers of his right hand, his thumb alone being visible. With his left
hand he stretched across the corner and held my two hands. The con-
ditions were such that there was no possibility of my seeing the slate or
his four fingers. I could see his wrist, however, above, and his knees
and feet below the table, and could detect, I think, any motion of his
fingers by the movement of the tendons of the wrist.
We sat in this position for three-quarters of an hour, I paying strict
attention. Nothing whatever was done. As a result of the constrained
position in which I was placed, leaning on my right arm, my hand and
arm then began to tremble slightly. Mr. Eglinton, perceiving tIns,
asked if I did not feel a peculiar current in my arm. ' I assented, but
in order to determine whether this was due to any "magnetic" or
other force proceeding either to or from the medium, or was simply a
natural tremor, I let go of his hand and leaned in the same position,
when I again felt the same tremor, and on finding that it ceased so soon
as I changed my position, even when I held Mr. Eglinton's hand, I was
convinced that it was merely nervous and subjective.
We went on with the sMnce, Mr. Eglinton encouragin~nvel'l!A­
ized by '_:PPSle
•
8641 .Accounts of 801M So-called "SpirittudiBtic" seQ/MelI.
tion. He said that as the manifestations were entirely beyond his own
COBtrol, it was best to think of other matters. He favoured me with
an extraordinary explanation of hypnotism, and recounted lOme of his
exploits in Spiritualism.* He repeatedly asserted that his own mind
and will had no effect whatever upon matter, and that the phenomena
came from without. He was quite correct in denying that "Thought-
transference" had any part in the results, as one of our experiments
afterwards proved. So long as I kept my eye on his hand and the edge
of the slate nothing occurred. He attempted several times DOW,
unsuccessfully, to divert my attention.
It DOW occurred to me that unless I purposely diverted my attention
from him, the ance might be a failure. I therefore looked away from
him toward the window on my left, hoping that now the spirits would
appear. They immediately did 80, as I both felt through Mr. Eglinton's
hand held in mine, and allO partially saw. The slate, or one end of it,
eeemed to be lowered beneath the table, and I saw the medium look
down intently toward his knees and in the direction of the slate. I
now quickly turned back my head, when the slate was brought up
against the table with a sharp rap. Mr. Eglinton eeemed confused,
and, complaining of the weight of the slate and the heat of the room,
put the slate on top of the table and diverted the conversation.
I suggested that we try the other slate-a small, light, American
slate of my own. He put this under the table in the same way, and
again I paid strict attention. There was no result. Having asked me
as to the nature of my questions, stating that the unknown powers
whose coming we awaited were not omniscient, I answered that I had
prepared three questions. The first (on his large slate) was one which
a spirit would know, but he could not possibly know; the second (on
my small slate) was one which a spirit would not know, but he might
know; and the third (in a sealed envelope) was one which both he and
the spirits knew perfectly well. The questions were as follows :-The
first, "Where is my wife 1" Mr. Eglinton could not know, as I came
under an assumed name, but a spirit who knew me, or could read my
thoughts, or could see as far as Wales would have known. The second,
" Define Idocrase," a spirit would not know unless he be a mineralogist,
but Mr. Eglinton could readily know by consulting a dictionary. The
third, "Multiply two by two," would be evident to both spirit and
medium provided they could get at the question in the sealed envelope.
We went on with the anee, and again I found that I must divert
my attention if results were to be had. I suggested trying the large
• One of these W8.8 the conversion of Mr. Kellar, the conjurer, to
Spiritualism. So far is this from being Iihe case, that Mr. Kellar, whom I know
personally. is nightly offering in America £20 to anyone who will produce
Spiritualistic phenomena that he cannot imitate by conj~.
Digitized by ~oo8le
Accounts of 80me So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances. 355
slate once more, and now, before he could get tired holding it, I
deliberately looked away. This time, as I turned back quickly, he
dropped the slate upon the floor, question side uppermost and nearest
to him, as if the slate had· been revolved. He excused himself as
before, complaining of the weight of the slate. Again we tried the
small slate, and again no result so long as I watched closely.
I now tried a different method. Agreeing with him that it was best
to divert my attention, I proposed reading a book while he held the
slate.* He brought me a book, which I placed on the table to my right,
and, turning my head partly away from him, began reading. Under
these conditions the "spirits" immediately and without a moment's hesi-
tation set to work. Mr. Eglinton began to breathe loudly, and to
move uneasily, and in such a way that I judged he was altering the
position of the slate. About this time Mr. Eglinton left the room for
several minutes.
Continuing the seance under the conditions just described, I BOon
heard, notwithstanding his heavy breathing, sighing, and jerking, that
writing was being done with a pencil on the slate. Unnoticed by him,
I now slightly turned my head, so that I could see his wrist. I
distinctly saw the flW'Vement of the entral tendon in '~is wriBt, corre-
sponding to that made by his middle finger in the act of writing. Each
movement of the tendon was simultaneously accompanied by the sound
of a scratch on the slate.
He now pulled out the slate Bnd showed me on its upper side the
answer to my question, "Define Idocra.se." There in hasty, yet
distinct characters was written, "It consists of Silica, Albumina, and
Lime." The true answer shouldhave been "It consists of Silica, Alumina,
and Lime." As will be stated more fully at the close of this account,
the answer is precisely such as might be obtained by a hasty glance at
the definition in a dictionary. Mr. Eglinton was careful to draw
my attention to the fact that one corner of the slate-pencil was worn
down.
We now tried the large slate, on which was the question, "Where
is my wife 1" under the same conditions, i.e., that of rnm-attention. I
again read a book, turning my head away from him, though not so far
but that I could see by a side glance. Again the spirits promptly
returned, and again I was conscious by indicative motionsthat the slate
was being manipulated. He then said aloud as if to a spirit, " Shall we
have an answer 1" I looked away so as to give the spirits a chance, and
immediately heard a vigorous and loud scribbling. It sounded like a series
of sharp zigzags,-thus, "~." I was sur-
• It was the small elate with the question which only a mineralogical
spirit oQuld an.ewer.
356 .Accounts of 80me So-called "Spiritualistic" Seance&.
prised to find only the short word" No," written in a round hand,
when the slate, immediately afterwards, was shown me, since the 8Cril~
bling I heard certainly lasted much longer than it would have taken to
write this word. Again he asked me to examine the fragment of
chalk; but I found it more worn down than necessary for the short
answer. In order to test this, I took another sharp comer of the
aame pencil and wrote the word "No"; but found that in order to
'Wear down the comer to an equal degree it was neceaaa.ry to write the
word twice, or to make a zigzag figure of the same length as the BOund
had indicated. It occurred to me that the wearing down of the
pencil fragment was a non-eaaential portion of the manifestation, and
that the real writing was done with another pencil.
It appearing that neither Mr. Eglinton nor the spirits were
able to answer a question which the former did not know, I proposed
trying the question in the closed envelope, the answer to which should
be easy to both powers. Mr. Eglinton declined to attempt this, giving
as his r8IIoSon that as I knew the question, it might be set down as
I< thought-reading" if an answer was obtained. He proposed that I
should write in his own folding-slate,-a handsome affair in hard wood
frame, and with a brass lock, being the same, as he informed me, which
Mr. Gladstone had used. I had no great fancy for working with
specially prepared apparatus, and suggested dispensing with all slates,
and asking the unknown powers to write upon a piece of paper in my
pocket. This was declined on the ground that just as a chemical re-
action can be obtained only by special methods and apparatus, BO a
manifestation of these unknown powers requires apecial conditions
'Which are learned by experience.
I then followed his suggestion and agreed to simply write a number
on a piece of paper and put it inside of his folding-slate. In order to
preclude the possibility of "thought-transference," I wrote a large
series of numbers on different slips of paper, and then throwing them
into a hat chose one of them, and, without looking at what was written,
folded it in four, and, after pressing it tightly, put it in his slate
together with a fragment of red chalk. The slate was closed with a
spring lock, and after the key was handed to me, the slate was held
under the table as before. In order to obtain the necessary condition
of non-attention, I busied myself in writing notes for this account, my
left hand being held in his left. I listened intently, however, and also
felt for any indications. Although I could see nothing, I was again con-
scious by varied and delicate motions and sounds that some power was
opening the slate, lifting up the paper, unfolding it, refolding it, and
replacing it. I distinctly heard the rustling sound of the paper being
unfolded and refolded. Meanwhile, Mr. Eglinton breathed heavily, and
jerked to and from the table as before. As. the ~te h~ a spring
Digitized by GOogle
Accownts of some So-caUed "Spi/ritualistic" Seances. 357
lock and shut with a snap, I wondered if this could be accomplished
without my hearing the sharp sound. Mr. Eglinton now gave a sudden
and strong sneeze, and at the same moment the slate was clapped
against the under side of the table. Mr. Eglinton had showed no signs
of a cold until this moment.
He now said to me, •• I feel the influence strongly," and placing his
folding-slate on the top of the table continued, "Will you ask if we
can get an answer 1" As the answer had, as I was convinced, been
already written, this request seemed to me superfluous, but neverthe-
less, in as grave a voice as the occasion seemed to require, I did so.
Mr. Eglinton having put an ordinary slate with a bit of chalk upon it
beneath the table, and I having looked away, in a few moments he
produced it again with the words, "We will try," written in the same
handwriting I had already seen. Both slates now being em top of ~
Mble, but his right hand being beneath it, Mr. Eglinton said" Listen,"
and I heard the sound of writing beneath the table, as of the scratching
of a slat&-pencil against its under side. This procedure may have been
intended to make me think that the spirits were now writing in the
closed slate lying on top of the table. It would have been more con-
vincing, however, had the hand of the medium been in sight. I hardly
thought, moreover, that the soft red chalk in the slate would make
the shrill sound that I heard. Having been asked to open the slate
with the key I had kept, I found the figure 8, the same as that on the
folded paper, written on the slate in red chalk. It was thus proved
that "thought-transference" was not the agent which produced the
writing; and as yet the evidence ;vas not convincing as to the agency
of any" objective, intelligent force capable of acting externa.lly to the
medium, and in contravention of the recognised laws of matter." This
ended the seance, and, having paid my guinea, I departed.
After reaching home, I found that I had inadvertently left with
Mr. Eglinton my small American slate, with the question "Define
Idocrase," and its answer. I therefore sent him a note asking for the
slate, and also for a statement that the phenomena I had witnessed
were not executed by himself, but were due to extra-physical forces
beyond his control. The next day the slate was returned, and with it
a note giving me the statement requested. This gave me an opportunity
of comparing the handwriting on the slate with that of the note.
Facsimiles of the two are here appended (Figs. 1 and 2).
Digitized by Coogle
358 Accounts of some So-called "Spiritualistic" Sea/n~.
FIG. 1.
Digitized by Coogle
4
"
.....
, ~ -
-.-...
··~04~~ ' , _
..c. ...:.
r'" ... ..~.... wI'\JI~
t~,
...,
..
. '
___ ~.~#> .. t ...
.._;
.• ...".....1......... ......
.'. ,~ ....
'-
-~..." '-.---
,
,ize
f •
. ....
L~)o Ie /
LJ
Digitized by Coog[e
AcCO'Unts of 80me So-called" Spiritu.aliBtic" Seances. 359
FIG. 2.
C.1L.1tf!to.",... j)~.
Q, ..
~7·
;) 1.c.h... ~-- ~ ~t..t4. ~ \ ........
¥~ ~~.
.
-' .~,t..:.,~ cu.. I..t.. -1; 1---'tA..,"-.L,~
f- ~ ~a..A- .. ~"7a.tL~ ~~ E~
~<4.t~ ~__ ~m·, I ~ ~ '-t~ ~
~ f ~tt..·r~$'~e,t ~~ ~ ~~
~ ~~. ~., f.:l ~~ ~t
C'AQ"... v..~ S"~ '- c£...t.1 0 ",,-,.:~ ~
~. a. ;"~I"""""1! ,., ~/,;;, e-~.
S~~. c:;-~~c:i.,.-t- ~ Ch.~u:.. '\'- r
~\<4~~~ o.~.~.
)~~~.
Cr-f'7'~~ -
.,
360 AccountB of Borne So-caUed "Spiritualistic" Seances.
Although at first sight no great similarity is apparent, a careful
examination shows many striking points of coincidence.* A difference
of style was to be expected; but when we find the same round
free hand, the same characteristic backhand curl at the end of the
words, and the same peculiarities in the shaping of the letters, both
capitals and small, it is difficult to escape from tke conclusion that the
writing on the slate and in the letter were both made by the same hand.
The irregular spacing on the slate indicates that it was done without.
being looked at. It is a suggest.ive fact that the first line of the
answer was at a distance from the lower edge of the slate equal to
that to which the middle finger could reach without shifting the slate,
while the thumb remained visible above the table. The other answers
produced during the SMnce were similarly spaced. Careful examina-
tion of the slate also showed finger marks extending around it in a
manner to indicate that it had been horizontally revolved.
Finally, as to the answer itself, "It consists of Silica Albumina and
Lime," we find on reference to Webster's Dictionary, in the definition
of the word idocrase the words, "It consists of Silica, Alumina and
Lime." Mr. Eglinton had ample opportunity to consult the dictiona.ry,
since he left the room twice during the SMnCII, one of the times being
just previous to the production of the above answer. Either he had
taken too hasty a glance at the dictionary, or his memory had failed
him in substituting albumina for alumina. We can hardly suppose a
" spirit" to have made this error, or to have imitated the dictionary
definition so closely.
Although I am aware of some seven methods of mediumistic slate-
writing, the s()-C311ed "psychography," only two of them, so far as I
could judge, were employed at this sMnce; and the main condition
necessary for success was that of non-attention on the part of the
visitor.
Second Seance.
A second visit was made to Mr. Eglinton on the morning of
December 16th, and, observing now the condition necessary for success,
I had a very satisfactory sMnce. I took with me' two ordinary school-
slates, purchased on the way. We sat down at the same table, the cloth
having been removed, and proceeded at once to business.
We began with the experiment of the book and the slate, which I
had seen several times described.+ Mr. Eglinton having left the room,
* Note the initial" S" and final "8," the capital .. L,n ,he final .. a's"
and "e's," the" of, " the "i'a," the .. c's," &c.
t See the Journal of the s.P.R., Vol. II., 'pp. 295, 301,303, 307, aos.
317,318, 325,330, and 331. It is also described in Light, October 16th,1886, by
Mr. Wedgwood (p. 463), Mr. Fanner and Mr. Ke11lemana (p. 4651, Miss
Symons (p. 467), .. G. J. R.n (p••70), Mr. Wilson (p. 473), ~fessorp Wagner,
ized byL.Oogle
Accounts of some So-called" Spiritualistic" Seances. 361
I took down a book (The Occult World) at random from his bookcase.
and, without opening it, wrote on one of my slates as follows:-
"Page 27, line 13. Word 2 red, 3 white, 4 blue." I intended by this
that the second word of line 13, page 27, should be written on the slate
in red chalk, the third word of the same line in white chalk, and the
fourth word in blue. Having turned the slate upside down, I called to
Mr. Eglinton to come in. He entered, and having put three bits of
chalk, red, white, and blue, with the book, on the slate, he put the
whole under the table, and, taking my left hand in his left, began the
seance. My right hand being free I wrote the following notes as the
seance proceeded :-
Mr. Eglinton places the book on the slate with the open aide
towMd him.* His thumb is not visible, his whole hand being under the
table. I purposely do not look directly at him, but busy myself with
these notes. The moment I begin writing, the manifestations begin.
He breathes heavily, sighs, moves and rattles the slate, puts his right
arm jOlT" below the table, withdraws his body slightly backward, and
then looks downward mlently, in the direction of the slate. I suddenly
look up, and immediately he also looks up with a very distressed
expression of countenance. I look down at my notes, and again he
looks down intently and for some time,. apparently at what he is
holding beneath the table. From the position of his arm, I judge that
by this time he has lowered the slate to perhaps eight inches below the
table, e'\len his elbow being sunk out of sight. He now jerks the slate
several times, breathing loudly. I look up again, when he says that he
is tired, a.nd brings up the book and slate, laying them on the table.
The pencils having been partly jerked oft· the slate. fresh bits are put
alongside the book, and the whole is again placed beneath the table.
I continue my note-taking, and immediately loud breathing and
shuddering begin on the part of Mr. Eglinton, who also assumes a
most woe·begone expression. He pushes his arm with the slate far
under the table, and then bringing it back towards him again looks
down (as if to read the book). He asks me if I am not conscious of a
force going out of me, and a feeling as if his hand was a battery.
I am conscious of nothing of the kind. Now he brings the
slate up against the under-side of the table, and puts his thumb
above, being the same position assumed at the tirst s~nce, when
writing was being produced on the slate. I now hear the sound of
Boutlerof, and Dobroslavin of St. Petersbul'l (p. 474). "M.A. (Oxon.)" (p. (75),
Mr. I'Anson (p. 5(0), all of whom regard it as conclusive evidence of the
pnuineneas of ..psychography."
* This appears to have been also the position of the book in the
experimenta described in Light. (l.c.)
Digitized by Coogle
362 .Accou.nts of 80me So-called .. Spiritualistic" Seances.
writing, as if on the slate, and a few moments later he exhibits it to me
with the answer written as follows :-" of" in red, .. occult" in white,
and "forces" in blue. The book lies in the middle of the slate, the
pencils at one end, and the writing at the other. On turning to the
page and line of the book indicated, I find the words "of occult forces"
in the correct position, but on close examination find marks made by a
finger-nail in the margin precisely opposite these words. It is clear
that lOme power made thNe scratches with a finger-nail, apparently a
thumb-nail, after opening the book and finding the place. I am astounded
at the simplicity of a performance, which, as described, baa been 80
strongly tinged with the marvellous.
The second experiment baa also been described.* A piece of slate-
pencil was put on the slate and covered by a glass tumbler, when the
whole was placed under the table, 80 that the top of the tumbler rested.
against the under-side of the table. Knowing how easy it would be to
shove the slate along under the tumbler when so supported, I asked to
be allowed to hold one end of the alate under the table myself, which
Mr. Eglinton permitted me to do. I then asked to have the word
" Nottingham" written, but on Mr. Eglinton saying that this word was
toe long, I chose" dog." So soon as I looked away from Mr. Eglinton
the operations began. Holding the slate, I distinctly felt him tilt it,.
shove it slightly along from under the tumbler, and then, in-
clining his end downwards, write on its upper side. He also looked
down at the slate just before he wrote. The writing was hastily
done,and the slate then restored to a horizontal position,and shoved back
80 that the glass should cover the word. The performance was now
finished, and the slate brought up for me to examine. The word .C dog"
was indistinctly and badly written in an irregular scrawl beneath the
glass. The writing was not nearly so distinct as that done in Mr.
Eglinton's usual method, when the slate is held against the table. (This
was, I suppose, due either to the unsteady position of the slate as com-
pared with its position when firmly pressed against the under-side of
the table, or else to want of practice on the part of the performer.)
The third experiment consisted of a question and answer written in
the ordinary way. I wrote "Please give a quotation from Kant,"
thinking that Mr. Eglinton would probably have to consult a reference
book in order to answer it. He held the slate against the under-side of
the table, and I held his left hand with my left and with my right hand
again busied myself with these notes. He began at once to write,
and in a few moments brought up the slate, on which the following
answer appeared: "There is no spirit here who knows Kant well
• Journal 01 the Society lor P61JcIIkal RuearcA, June, 1888, p. 324, uad
Light, No. 302, p. 482.
Digitized by Coogle
I.
• Compare here on slate wi,h were in letter; there on slate with the in
letter; who on IIlate with which aDd what in letter, &c. . .. Coogle
Digitized by
• Journal of tM Society for Paychical Ruearch, June, 1886, p. 324, aDd
Light, No. 302, p. 482.
izedbyGoogle
.Accounts of 80me So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances. 863
enough." This was written in the characteristic handwriting, in the
usual position on the upper side of the slate at the end furthest
from him. It began at about the distance from the end of the alate to
which his fingers could reach-some four inches from the edge. A
facsimile of this answer is appended (Fig. 3), by which it will appear
that the handwritiJ1.g has many characteristics identical with those of
former alate-writing, and not essentially disguised from the hand-
writing in his letter to me.*
FlO. 3.
• Compare here on alate with were in letter; there on slate with the in
letter; WM on IIlate with which aad what in letter, &c. . .. Coogle
Digitized by
364 Accounts of 80me So-called" Spirit'l.Uilistic" Seances.
Mr. Eglinton now intimated that the seance was at an end. I
begged that it might be continued, as I was leaving London for the
Continent the next day. He said that it was quite impossible to get
further manifestations since the "power was exhausted," and explained
that this exhaustion of power was quite independent of his Yolition, and
occurred at various times, sometimes at the very beginning of a
seance. The thought occurred to me that, notwithstanding this
" exhaustion of power," the spirits would perhaps continue to work if
some further inducement was offered to them. I therefore proposed to
Mr. Eglinton a double fee if the seance was prolonged. The medium
yielded without hesitation, and the spirits continued to give excellent
manifestations. It was interesting to learn that these "unknown
powers" are not removed from the influence of pecuniary inducements.
We proceeded to the fourth experiment. It was one which would
be difficult to perform without detection, and, moreover, since Mr.
Eglinton was ignorant of the answer to the question, a direct one
could not be given (unless by the agency of "spirits" or other
" intelligent forces "). As I had come to Mr. Eglinton at first under
an assumed name, and at the present seance under my proper one, he
had no means of knowing the correct answer to the question, which
was "What is my father's name 1" I wrote this question somewhat
faintly with a lead pencil on a sheet of note-paper, the left side of
which was gummed to the left edge of a slate and then folded down so
that the question should be on the under side next to the slate. In
order to see the question, Mr. Eglinton would have to lower the
slate sufficiently to turn over the sheet of note-paper, thus:-
r
an operation which I could not
fail to observe. It was arranged
that the answer should be written
in pencil on the other side of the
same sheet of note-paper, and a
minute bit of lead pencil, freshly
sharpened, was laid on the slate
for the use of the" spirits." All
being thus arranged, and Mr.
Eglintonhaving sharpenedanother
pencil, he put the slate under the
table in the usual position, held my left hand in his left, and I began
again writing these notes, my head being partly turned away, yet not
so far but that I could see his motions. I also moved somewhat out
from the table so that I could watch his legs.
The conditions being, as he supposes, favourable, he proceeds to
lower the slate 80 that his whole hand and arm up to the elbow dis-
Digi
Accounts of 80me So-called "Spiritua1istic" Seances. 365
appear from view. I now distinctly hear the rustling of the paper as
it is being folded back, This being done, Mr. Eglinton looks down
intently towards his knees, apparently endeavouring to read my
question, which I had purposely written in a small, light hand. Here
he drops the slate upon the floor. Having restored it to its original
position, the same operation is repeated, and again he 8toop8 to look at
the question, this time bringing his head within afew inche, of the
table. His left leg now 8lowly begin8 to rise and soon entirely
disappears from my view, as though to support the slate upon his knee.
His arm and whole hand are at the same time under the table. I now
hear writing going on at some length. On my turning to look at him
the sound of writing ceases and the leg is let down. Again I look
away, when writing recommences, his thumb now being visible and
resting on the table. I watch his wrist and distinctly see the tendons
move as he is in the act of writing.
Mr. Eglinton seemed, therefore, to have written the last part of
the message while the slate was pressed against the under side of the
table, in the usual way; but before I interrupted him he had
apparently been writing upon the slate while it lay upon his knee. As
will be shown presently, the character of the writing leads to the same
conclusion. The following answer now appeared, written as requested
on the paper :-" We regret that your father's name is unknown to us.
If you had a deceased relative present who knew the name of your
father it is probable we could. We are not omniscient."
As in every other experiment in both seances the answer indicated
flO superi<Jr inteUigence to that of Eglinton. It was interesting to find
two distinct styles of handwriting upon the paper, a facsimile of
which is here given [see Fig. 4, p. 366], corresponding to the two
positions in which he wrote.
From the beginning of the answer to the word "could," the
writing is angular, the words and lines well spaced, the i's properly
dotted, and there is every indication that it was written with the aid
of the eye. The words "probable we," written at right angles to the
preceding portion of the answer after the slate had been turned, fill a.
vacant space at the end of the first two lines in a manner that clearly
proves the use of eyesight. But the last part of the answer, on the
other end of the slate, is in quite a different hand and was written
with a fresh pencil point. It is irregular, the lines are no longer
straight, the i's are not dotted, m's are twice used instead of n's, and
it was evidently written without the aid of the eye. A freshly pointed
pencil, or at least a new corner, must have been used to make the thin
lines here, which differ markedly from the dull heavy lines of the preced-
ing portion. This last portion shows more clearly the characteristic
handwriting produced in former experiments, and it is suggested by
Digi
366 .Accounts of 80me So-called "SpiritualiBtic" Sianca.
FIG. !.
izedbyGoogle
Accounts of some So-called "SpiritUalistic" Seances. 367
the writing alone that the last five words were written while the slate
was held against the under side of the table, and the preceding portion
while it rested on his knee in sight. The handwriting of the whole
answer is clearly identical with that produced in the last experiment,
as a direct comparison of Figs. 3 and 4 renders evident.
As Mr. Eglinton on this occasion did not ask me to examine the
pencil point, placed on the slate for the use of the spirits, but on the
other hand was about to throw it away, I thought this an advantageous
opportunity to examine it. I therefore quickly seized and pocketed it.
It proved to be perfectly sharp and unworn, and identical in size and
condition with what it was when placed on the slate before the experi-
ment. It had certainly not been used for the production of the
answer. The other short pencil which I had seen Mr. Eglinton sharpen
just before the experiment was not shown to me, but it is not difficult
to imagine its purpose. He assured me, however, that the writing
was produced by some external agency.
Mr. Eglinton now suggested telling me the number of matches in a.
matchbox that he held in his hand. Having seen a description of this
operation, I declined participating in it. I also declined having him
tell me the number of a bank-note that I was to put in his famous
folding-slate, divining his method. I asked, however, for one more
trial with his folding-slate, on condition that he left the room for a few
minutes, to which he assented.
While he was out of the room, I wrote a question upon a piece of
paper and put it in the closed slate, which I not only locked, putting
the key in my pocket, but fastened together by glueing a poStage-
stamp across the end, so that it would be impossible to open it without
considerable force, and probably the use of two hands. Having called
in Mr. Eglinton and got the slate under the table without his noticing
the stamp, which was on the edge of the slate farthest from him, I went
on with my writing, leaving him and the spirits to open the slate if
they could. I heard a slight tinkling sound as if he were using a dupli-
cate key. After several minutes (in which Mr. Eglinton had probably
been vainly endeavouring to open the slate), he brought it up, still with
the stamp upon it, and laid it upon the table. Then putting·a common
slate below in the usual way, his whole hand being beneath the table,
he asked the spirits, "Can we get an answer 1" After putting the
slate for a moment on top of the table, and then again placing it below,
the sound of writing was heard and immediately afterwards an answer
appearedupon the simple slatein his hand, in the usual position, reading
"No. We have done all that we can for you."*
• Had Mr. Eglinton been aware that tho slate had been fastened with &
postage stamp, he might have removed it-to remove adhesive pa~r from a
Digitized by ~oo8le
368 Accounts of som.e So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances.
The question that I had placed in the folding-slate remained
unanswered and untouched, and I was forced to conclude that a sealed
slate as well as a sealed envelope, was proof against the skill of both
Mr. Eglinton and the" spirits." Thus ended the second Mnce.
Altogether nine distinct experiments were performed or attempted.
In reviewing these, it is possihle to summarize the principal facts
observed as follows :-
1. Writing was never obtained on any of the slates unless they had
been held for some time under the table.
2. In every case where answers were obtained, Mr. Eglinton looked
down at the slate containing the question long enough to read it.
3. Direct answers were given only in cases where Mr. Eglinton, after
seeing the question, either knew the answer already or obtained it
by consulting a dictionary. In the last case he left the room for
several minutes before an answer was given.
4. Whenever the question was unseen by Mr. Eglinton it was unseen
by the" spirits," and when the answer was unknown to him it was
unknown to the "spirits," as the written answers in each case
proved. In no case was any intelligence other than that of Mr.
Eglinton indicated in the answers.
o. The movement of the tendons in Mr. Eglinton's wrist when the
BOund of writing was heard, the rustling of the paper as it was
being unfolded and refolded, and the motion of the slate felt as it
was tilted beneath a tumbler, are phenomena perceived by the
senses to be in accord with the ordinary laws of nature as applied
to the action of Mr. Eglinton's right hand.
6. The fragments of chalk or pencil placed on the slate do not appear
to be neceBB8.ry for the production of an answer. As in one cue
the chalk was worn down too much, and in another case the pencil
was not worn down at all, notwithstanding a long answer, it
appears that the abrasion on them often exhibited was purposely
made for other reasons.
7. The scratching sound often heard beneath the table like the sound
of writing, was certainly made by Mr. Eglinton, as the corre-
polished wooden surface being perfectly easy-and, after opening the slate,
replaced the stamp u before. But being entirely unaware of the c&U8e of
the failure of the slate to fall open u usual by its own weight, he wu
unable to do anything with it. I secretly removed the stamp before returning
the slate to Mr. Eglinton. who perhaps imagined that 1 had tampered with the
lock. It is needless to remark that genuine "spirits" would hardly have been
deterred by a postage stamp, nor would they afterwards have given a totaUy
irrelevant auawer. Thequestion" By whose hand is the &DIIwer to this question
written?" can hardly be auawered by the sentence, .. No. We have done all
that we can for you."
Digitized by Coogle
.Accounts of 80me So-called .. Spiritualistic" Seances. 369
sponding motion of the tendons of his wrist proved. This
scratching sound usually immediately preceded the exhibition
of the answer, but there is no reason to suppose that
it always had any connection with the actual writing upon
the slate. On the contrary, in one case the scratching lasted
too long for the short answer, and in another case the scratching
was done under the table when no slate was there, the slates being
on top of the table and Mr. Eglinton's hand alone being below.
Like the wearing down of the pencil, the sound of scratching
appears to have been in many cases intended only for effect.
8. The answers produced on each of the slates and on the paper
have similar characteristic points, and although more or less
disguised from the ordinary handwriting of Mr. Eglinton, a
careful comparison leads me to the conclusion that all were the
work of one hand.
9. The position of the writing on the slates corresponded to the
distance to which Mr. Eglinton's fingers could reach from the edge
of the table, and sometimes suggested that the slate had been
horizontally revolved.
10. During almost every experiment the slate was either dropped on
the floor or brought up at least once to the tOp of the table,
ostensibly to rest the medium, butat the same time affording him
opportunities for revolving the slate or otherwise manipulating it.
11. In a case which required it, Mr. Eglinton appeared to support the
slate upon his knee, and put both hand and arm beneath the
table, and in this case the character of the writing differs from
that produced when the slate is in the usual position supported
against the table.
12. In the experiment with the book and slate, the facts of his hand
being completely under the table, his sightdirected towards it, and
the marks of a thumb-nail being afterwards found opposite the
line chosen, afford evidence that the book was opened while under
the table.
13. No results were obtained when the question was enclosed either in
a sealed envelope or a sealed slate.
14. Nothing was done so long as a strict watch was kept upon Mr.
Eglinton, but non-attention was in each case immediately followed
by manifestations. 1
1 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick (Proceeding" Part x., p. 70) has come to a very
siruila.r conclusion after lMIances with many mediums, and has shown that an
absence of evidence of continuous observation on the part of the witnesses, and
of phenomena dispeusing with the necessity for nch observation, characterises
spiritualistic manifesto.tions in general. . . r. I
Digitized by '1!qf)8 e
370 Accounts of 801M So-called "Spiritualistic" Siance8.
15. Pecuniary inducements were found to be capable of reviving aD
asserted "exhaustion of power."
It is not for me here to discuas what Mr. Eglinton's motives may be
in exhibiting these manifestations and in assigning them to the opera-
tion of forces external to himself. It is enough to have proved that.
the phenomena witnessed were all capable of being produced by his
own right hlUld while hidden beneath the table; that no superior intel-
ligence or external force was at any time indicated; and that the one
condition necessary for success was non-attention on the part of the
visitor. H. CABVILL LEWIS.
The following is Mr. F. G. Netherclift's Report on the above
facsimiles :-
10, Bedford-row, W.C.
8f}" March, 1887_
I have very minutely compared the writings contained in the four
several documents submitted to me for an opinion, namely: A facsimile
of writing on a slate, commencing, "There is no spirit here," &c., which
I have marked 1. (Fig. 3.)
Another facsimile of writing on a slate, commencing," It consists
of Silica," &c., which I haved marked 2. (Fig. 1.)
Some other facsimile writing not written on a slate, commencing,
II We regret that your father's name," &c., which I have marked 3.
(Fig. 4.)
Also the handwriting in facsimile of a gentleman signing himself
W. Eglinton, and which I have marked A; the said writing commenc-
ing, II I return you the slate," &c. (Fig. 2.)
I entertain a strong opinion that the whole of the writings above
described are by one and the same hand; those marked 1, 2, and 3
being the disguised hand of the writer of A.
I am induced to this belief by the following peculiar resemblan~
which, notwithstanding the clever attempt to feign another distinct.
hand, the writer has betrayed.
Supposing the letter A to be the habitual style of Mr. Eglinton's
writing, then it appears to me that he has taught himself an eccentric
mode of forming his letters, more especially the capitals D, P, W, r.
and the small" y," a departure from which, combined with writing in
a more sloping running hand fashion, would render his writing at all
times difficult, except to an expert, to rt>Cognise.
The following agreements, in my judgment, are of sufficient.
importance to identify the writer of A as the writer also of 1, 2.
and 3.
1. Compare the printed style of the letter S as in II Sili<m," 2nd line
of slate-writing marked 2, with the same in " selves," 14th line A.
Digitized by Coogle
Accounts of some So-called "Spiritualiatic" Seances. 371
2. Observe that three several formations of the letter "r" are
employed; a round one at the top in commencing a word, thus, "2."
Refer to the same in " regret" and" relative," 1st and 5th lines fac-
simile writing marked 3,and compare same with the "r" in "return" and
" result," 5th and 9th lines A. A second formation is a square-headed
r like that in the word "your," 7th line facsimile writing marked 3,
a counterpart to which will be found in the word " control," 11th line
A. And the third formation presents the appearance of a letter" i,"
thus, -t,." Compare the same in the word "father," 7th line facsimile
writing marked 3, with the" r " in " yesterday," 9th line, and" yours "
" very truly," 16th line A.
3. The letter" w" is a most remarkable and important agreement,
almost sufficient in itself to identify the writer. Compare the "w"
in the word" well," 4th line slate-writing marked 1. Also in the word
Ie we" head of facsimile writing marked 3, with the "w" in the word
" were," 9th line A. The second or final portion of the letter is singu-
larly alike.
4. Observe that the letter "a " is occasionally made open at the top
80 as to resemble the letter "u." See the word "that," 1st line
facsimile writing 3, compared with the word "what," 11th line A.
5. Notice the round" c" in the word "Silica," 2nd line slate-writing
2, with same in "convince," 14th line A.
6. Compare the capital L in the word "Lime," 4th line slate-writing
2, with same in the name" Latouche," 4th line A.
7. Particularly compare the word" to " in 3rd line facsimile writing
3, with the same in the 8th line A. Notice that the letter" 0" is only
a half letter, simply an " i." Were the writing of the facsimile 3 less
sloping this word would be identical.
8. Compare the letter "a" in the word "deceased," 4th line
facsimile writing 3, with the same in the word" made," 15th line A.
The remarkable point is, the letter resembles an "0." .
9. Compare the round "I" in the word "Silica," 2nd line slate-
writing 2, with same in the word" control," 11th line A.
10. Remark the final "e" in the word" name," 2nd line facsimile
writing 3, and the final "e " in the word "were," 9th line A.
11. Compare the commencing letter "h" in the word "had," 4th
line facsimile writing 3, with the same in the word "have," 13th line
A. It is a straight downstroke, without leading upstroke or loop.
12. Compare the letter" p" commencing the word "probable,"
facsimile writing 3, with same in the word "physical," 10th line A.
Also a straight downstroke without a leading upstroke.
13. Compare the letters "en" in the word" enough.." 5th ~e
Digitized by ~~VOl
9. .. 9.
372 Accounts of some So-called "Spiritua1istie" Sian«&.
writing 1, with the same in the word" entirely," 10th line A. Notice
that the" n " is less bold than the" e."
14. Compare the letter" b " with the diminutive downstroke in the
'word "albumtln," 3rd line slate-writing 2, with the same in the word
"above," 15th line A.
If the characteristics I have referred to are carefully examined, I
feel confident that the same conclusions as I have formed will be
arrived at. FREDERICIt GEORGE NETBBRCLIPT.
Mr. Hodgson gives the following opinion on the writings:-
1, Furnival's Inn, Holborn, E.C.
MarcA 9t1&, 1887.
I was unable to make any prolonged examination myself of the
facsimiles of the writings you wished to be submitted to Mr. Netherclift.
There was of course no doubt that all the writings might have been by
the hand of Eglinton, and I observed, during the short comparison
which I made, several peculiar indications that they actually were
written by him,-indicmtions which would probably escape the notice
of the ordinary reader. And though the conclusion that Eglinton
wrote them all would not be obvious at first sight, I think few would
hesitate to agree with Mr. Netherclift after noting the pointa of
resemblance which he has enumerated, and of which additional
examples may be found. There are other minor instances of resem-
blance which Mr. Netherclift thought needless to mention, and I
entirely agree with his opinion that all four writings are by the band
of Eglinton. Concerning Mr. Netherclift's remark abo~t Eglinton's
habitual style of writing, it may be wortb mentioning that I have in
my possession a long letter written by Eglinton in 1882, and that
it seems clear that he bas intentionally changed some of the characters
of his ordinary handwriting; and further significant resemblances might
be pointed out between his undoubted writing of 1882, and the
" psychographic" specimens under examination.
RICHARD HODGSON.
While this paper is passing through the press, Professor CarviU
Lewis sends the following Postscript to his account :-
Since the above was in print, two articles have appeared in
Germany describing s~nces with Mr. Eglinton, in both of which the
inquirers express themselves as convinced of the "supersensual"
character of the manifestations.
One of the ~ces, held at St. Petersburg, is described by Herr
Julius Gillis in an article entitled" Sechs Experimente mit Eglinton"
(Sphinx, III., 16., p. 253, April, 1887). The" six experiments" were
very similar to those performed for me and alreadyAIlscribed; consist.
Digitized by GOogle
Accownts of 80me &-called "Spiritualistic" seances. 373
ing of answers to questions on a slate, writing on a slate a name
previously written upon a piece of paper and placed in the folding-
slate, telling the number of a banknote also put in his folding slate, 1
performing the experiment of the book and the slate, &c. In all
of these the slate and accessories were held beneath the table, and
since none of the answers evinced an intelligence beyond that of Mr.
Eglinton, the proceedings seem to have been practically a repetition
of those done for me, the same methods being used, and the same
conditions being required.
Herr Gillis has fortunately published a photographic reproduction
of one of the answers (see Fig. 5) which is valuable as evidence. The
" spirit" had been asked to perform the experiment of tying a knot in
a stretched cord, which Slade had done for Professor Zollner, and after-
wards for Herr Gillis and others. Whereupon the following writing
was produced on the slate.
The reader may find it convenient to have the contents in print :-
Mein lieber Herr,
Vor Jahrhunderten wuuten unsere Vorfahren diese Phenomene
und hatten auch die Kraft, dieselben hervorzubringen. Jedoch durch den
Fortechritt der Welt in anderen Dingen Kiimmerte sich man weniger mehr
tiber daa menschliche Schicksal; jedoch jetzt solIte man es mehr denn jeh.
Wir hoffen dau durch die Thataachen, welche wir Ihnen vorfiihrten, Sie
aich mehr and mehr mit diesem Gegenatand befauen werden.
Ihr ergebener
ERNEIIT.
The experiments which you demand would take a very long Beries of
seances to accomplish, and we could under no circumstances promise them.
It will be observed (1) That the German portion of the answer is
totally irrelevant to the question, and had clearly been at least com-
posed before the seance. (2) That the German itself is such bad
German as an Englishman might write. "Ernest," whoever he may
be, is clearly not an adept at German, else he would not have
written "wu88t6n" for kannten, "sich Ina'll" for man sich, "iiher "
for Utn, "jeh" for je, "durch die" for in Veranlassung der, "and" for
undo (3) That the two entirely different styles of writing, while
exhibiting Mr. Eglinton's skill at disguising and varying his hand-
writing, still bear the characteristic marks of his personality. The
"report [see p. 376] from Mr. Netherclift, the well-known expert,
to whom this facsimile was submitted, bears testimony to the truth
of this conclusion.
The other article, also founded upon a seance with Mr. Eglinton, is
a very well-written one entitled, "Ein Wort iiber den Spiritismus"
1 I have already stated that Eglinton proposed to perform this " ex-
periment" with me, but that I had declined it, suspecting his pro~ I
Digitized by ~008 e
374 Accottnts of BOme So-called "Spiritualutic" Siances.
FIG. 5.
Digitized by Coog[e
AcCO"Unts of some So-called" Spirit'UOlistic" Seances. 375
. ,/
(,Vom Fela 2Um Meer, VI., Hept 8, p. 264), by Baron Dr. Carl du Pre!,
of Munich, one of the ablest writers upon the subject, himself an earnest
but liberal-minded Spiritualist. He describes how, after two unsuccess-
ful seances, at the third seance, seven persons besides the medium being
present, all of whom were now sympathetic and" well-wishing" toward
him, the favourite experiment of the book and slate, at Mr. Eglinton'.
suggestion, was performed. As the performance was slightly varied
from his usual manner, it may be well here brie6y to describe it.
All being seated around the table, with joined hands, and a book
having been brought in, a page, line, and number were privately written
on a slate hy one of the company, the book placed upon the slate, and
all put beneath the table, one of the ladies assisting the medium in
supporting the slate at one end against the under side of the table.
After being held beneath the table for a long time it was finally brought
up, and a second slate was laid on top of the book, when all was tied
together and again held under the table. Soon the sound of writing
was heard, and, three knocks being given, the slates were separated and
this writing found: "Page 176, litle 18, word 6, Grahltilgel," which
last, on opening the book, was found to be the correct word.
Baron e1u Prel regards this production as due to the action of an
intelligent, invisible, clairvoyant spirit, which, as indicated by its
degree of intelligence, was neither an angel nor a demon, but the spirit
of a deceased human being. He seems to consider that it is phenomena
of this nature which form the true acientific baaia of Spiritualism. I
quite agree with Baron du Prel, when, near the close of his article, he
says, "Unless there is in the first place a scientific foundation for
Spiritualism, any Spiritualistic code of morals' floats in the air.' Before
we can pin our faith upon the sayings of spirits, we must know beyond
a doubt who these spirits are who declare them."
If the scientific basis of Spiritualism consists of the so-called
manifestations produced by such men as Mr. Eglinton, or in any facts
of a similar nature, it is no wonder that most men of science refuse to
have anything to do with it. The experiment just described in no
way invalidates the presumption that Mr. Eglinton opened the book
and wrote upon the slate while they were under the table. The state-
ment of the lady who held one end of the slate that it had not
been moved, while said with perfect sincerity, is without value, for as
I have proved by repeated experiments, it is almost impossible to
detect the gradual lowering of the other end of the slate for a few
inches when held in this position. Anyone can readily verify this point
for himself.
H. CABVILL LEWIs.
April, 1887.
Digitized by Coogle
376 Accounts of 80me So-called "Spiritualistic" Beancea.
Mr. Netherclift's report is as follows ;-
I have attentively examined the reduced lithographed copy of slate-
writing, and have compared the same with the admitted habitual hand-
writings of Mr. Eglinton, with which I am now becoming quite famili!U".
I am enabled to give you the following very decided opinion as to
the genuineness of the slate-writing in question.
I do not understand German as a language, but I am acquainW
with the manner of writing it, having had, in the course of forty
years' experience as an expert, to give evidence as to the formation
of the letters so as to identify them with other hands submitted to me.
The slate-writing now before me is not written by a foreigner. It
is undoubtedly an English handwriting, not German..
The whole of the writing, German and English, is by one and the
same hand, being undoubtedly the disguised hand of Mr. Eglinton.
The English writing is disguised in a more upright style than the
German, so as to give a greater contrast, and to convey the notion of &
distinct hand; but the characteristics are similar throughout,and when
compared with Eglinton's natural hand the same writer is at once
identified.
Thus, for instance, compare the letter "w," which in Eglinton's
natural handwriting is peculiar, and I have called attention to it in a
fonner report [po 371]. This is the shape of it, " i.A"." The first por-
tion of the letter is made full, and round at the bottom, but the final
portion is like the letter "v," coming to a point, thus, "1'." Noticethe
word "were" in the 9th line of his letter of November 17th [po 359].
and see how the "w " agrees with that in "welche," 12th line German
writing. Also in "wir" and" werden." In the English writing you
will see it in "which," 1st line, and "would," 2nd line. In fact,
Eglinton cannot guard against this formation, and betrays it in every
disguised hand, whatever the style.
Then, again, his writing is recognised by the final " d " with looped
downstroke, thus" /." See "and" in the German writing, 14th
line, and "would" and "and" in the English writing, and compare them
with the "d" in the word" behind," 6th line, letter of November 17th
[po 359]. This habit also runs through all Eglinton's disguised hand-
writings.
The word "to" may always be recognised. The~ is no word "to"
in the German writing, but that in the 4th line of the English writing
resembles precisely Eglinton's formation. A peculiarity shown
occasionally in the formation of the word" to" will be alluded to in my
next report, when, in connection with the dis21lisechwritinas on the
Digitized by l::.oogre
Accounts of Benne So-called "Spiritualistic" Seances. 377
three slates, Eglinton's eccentricities in writing will more fully be
entered into. 1 I will now mention only the three ways in which
Eglinton forms the letter" r." These three formations will be found
throughout the disguised writings.
FRBDERICK GBORGB NBTHBRCLIFT.
In the following case the evidence for trickery is of a different kind.
ACCOUNT FROM MR. B. J. PADSHAH,
Of Sind College, Kurrachee, India.
Septem1JeJr 14th, 181!6.
liB Mr. Eglinton is very aggressive in dealing with Mrs. Sidgwick's
report on his phenomena., I feel bound to entrust to Mr. Hodgson
for pUblication whenever he thinks it necessary, the following facts,
which can be easily confirmed by referring to the individuals named.
Mr. Khareghat, of the Indian Civil Service (address, Treasury,
Ahmedabad, India,) and myself were having sittings with Mr.
Eglinton in the last quarter of 1884, when, to see how far he can
degrade himself in trickery, I resorted to a dodge at the suggestion
of a third friend. The point of our previous sittings with Mr.
Eglinton was this: that while the reverse of incredulous of his
powers, we wished for some confirmation of them by getting some
Gujarati writing; and if something concerning our family affairs, so
much the better, as we felt assured that Mr. Eglinton was ignorant
of our language probably, and certainly of our domestic affairs.
Mr. Eglinton had favoured us with three or four phenomena but none
satisfied our conditions. Once, indeed, we had two lines of Sanskrit
written in Bengali characters in the course of a somewhat trashy
dissertation in English; but as Mr. Eglinton had been for six months
in Bengal, and as he had contrived, very much against our wish,
and I may say, to my disgust, to get one whole hour's preparation
previous to our seance, the significance of the writing was
minimised. At the instance of a third friend, therefore, and
improving, as I thought, and as it turned out, upon such suggestions
as were made to me by that friend and others, I wrote out in
Gujarati a common song of Bombay and translated it into English;
the translation and the superscription of the envelope being written
by Mr. Mohini M. Chatterji, (77, Elgin Crescent, Notting Hill,)
1 This refers to three other slates-full of writing-the result of sittings
with Eglinton-which were lent to us by a friend. In framing the present
report and the one referred to, Mr. Netherclift had before him, as specimens
of Eglinton's admitted handwriting, two short notes and two envelopes, in
addition to Figure 2.-E.G.
izedbyGoogle
378 Acco'U(nt8 of 80me So-called .. Spiritualist-i.e" Siance8.
and forwarded it to Mr. Eglinton. The original suggestion was that
I should write only a line or two of Gujarati and send that to
Mr. Eglinton without comment or translation. One advantage of
that is obvious. It gives the trickster less trouble to imitate or
trace, and therefore less chances of detection, and therefore greater
temptation. But I feared lest Mr. Eglinton should think what
reason any anonymous correspondent could have to send him
Gujarati lines without telling him what he was to do with them, and,
lest he should suspect a trap was laid for him (which, I am afraid,
he must have done in any case,) I sent it, therefore, as a "Spiritual
Song by an Indian (Guj) Bard," and translated it line by line,
literally, to allow him to make use of as much of it as he liked.
I, therefore, had some chance of giving him the impression that an
anonymous Gujarati, finding from the papers that he (Mr. Eglinton)
was the pillar of Western Spiritualism, had sent him an Eastern
effusion for his use on a subject of such interest to him. I also took
the opportunity of absenting myself from the sitting which Mr.
KharE'ghat alone had on a Saturday (I think Nm'emhE'r 3rd, 1884), by
going to LivE'rpool with Madame Blavatsky, to see her oft' to India.
~Iy friend Mr. Khareghat was not admitted to the knowledge of what
we had done, and I\S I WI\8 not present there was nothing in the sitting to
encourage Mr. Eglinton to hE'lieve in the trap. When I returned
what was my surprise when I saw my own handwriting on the slate.
and every line of Gujarati as I had written it on the paper. I
confess I became uneasy lest my friend should believe I had wished
him to be deluded for my own purposes, and thus terminate the
lifelong friendship and confidence between us. But that honourable
soul only was surprised at the formE'd hand betrayed in the writing,
and as he was not familiar with my Gujarati writing (we in India
correspond mostly in English,) he, I hope, took my word that the
thing was not genuine. I am certain that the writing was mine, and
it must have been traced on the slate. The slate, I believe, is
preserved by Mr. Khareghat in India, and it would be possible,
perhaps, to ascertain whether the writing there bears marks of
having been traced or not. My mother, (198, Main Road, KhetvRdi,
Bombay,) can furnish samples of my Gujarati writing in the shape
of recent letters to her, and thus my statement about the identity
of the writing can be verified. I do not append a sample of
my writing now for the reason that it will not be quite natural,
while my mother can furnish letters contemporaneous with the &nC8.
Every item of this can be -verified by reference to the people
mentioned, and also to Mi88 Arundale, (77, Elgin Crescent, Notting
Hill,) who was in knowledge of the whole thing.
Lastly, I may say that I sometimes have an un,aBY COIlflCi01l8Deu
Digitized by ~0081e
ACCO'U1Us of som.e So-called .. Spiritualistic" Seances. 379
that Mr. Eglinton may have known all along that we wished him
-to trick Mr. Khareghat, and may have misunderstood my object.
If so he is at least guilty of complicity in a plot whose fruit
he was very ready to make use of, for he has since begged Mr.
Khareghat to give him an account of his impressions of the seances
with a view to make a public use of it. What is the reliance, then,
to be placed on the Eglinton-Blavatsky phenomenon on the Vega,
if he convicts himself of such complicity 1
A theory was once suggested to me that Mr. Eglinton's astral
body, or double, or any other concoction, might have precipitated the
identical writing on the slate with or without the assistance of spooks.
It was supposed a confirmation rather than the reverse, that the
matter and the hand were identical with the copy I had sent to
Mr. Eglinton. Mr. Egliuton, along with his double, it was pointed
out, must have intensely studied that writing, and hence floating in
his "astral aura," the double could not help reading and precipitating
it. If anyone can make anything of and accept such a hypothesis,
it is his affair. My point is that we had got no test previously; that
when a deliberate trap had been laid, Mr. Eglinton seemed to have
fallen into it; that Gujarati writing came only once, and that was
after we had sent him a specimen; and in substance, and style,
and handwriting it was to all appearance identical with our
.specimen. It is worthy of note that during that seance, lasting over
more than thirty minutes, Mr. Khareghat received no other message,
~xcept perhaps the final and very convenient "good-bye."
B. J. PADSHAH.
November 27th, 1~86.
I believe Mr. Hodgson will be able to testify to these facts himself
from some independent evidence he obtained of the facts from the
principal parties within six months of the 6vent.-B. J. P.
Mr. Hodgson writes :-
I can corroborate the essential points of the above account, having
heard of the incident originally from Madame Blavatsky, whose
narrative to me was confirmed by the statements afterwards made to
me by Miss Arundale. Madame Blavatsky imposed secrecy upon
nlyself, but she apparently thought it would be necessary to make use
of my testimony at some time or other; and I have now no hesitation
in confirming Mr. Padshah's account. RICHARD HODGSON.
With such evidence before us, supplementing that to which I
briefly referred, we must clearly regard Eglinton as a person who,
being professionally interested in making it appear that certain
phenomena. occur in his presence without his physical ageJ\Cf, has po
Digitized by ~oo8le
380 .Accov.ntB of some So-called "Spiritualistic" Siatnces.
scruples as to the means by which that appearance may be produced.
But to say that the medium is capable of trickery is, of course, quite
a different thing from saying that all his performances are tricks.
If the phenomena which occurred in his presence were far and away
beyond any conjurer's power of repetition, it might be possible to
accept them as genuine, irrespective of his character. Here, then,
we come to the final and cri~cal question-Are any of the phenomena
recorded beyond the ascertained resources of conjuring' Has the
observation and attention exercised by the sitters been of a sort which
conjurers are unable to distract or elude' Practical answers to such
questions as these have been attempted, but have generally consisted
in imitations, given at public entertainments, of Spiritualistic
phenomena-imitations often very imperfect and which at the best.
leave it open to Spiritualists to say that things occurring in a
prepared place, with any amount of opportunity for mechanical con-
trivances,bearno real resemblance to things occurring in private houses
which the medium had never before entered, and in which he had had
no opportunities for preparation. The dispute on such ground as this
might have been interminable. Noris it enough that certain conjurers
should testify that they have not been able to detect the mod", operandi
of mediums. For conjurers would scarcely profess to an infallible
intuition of one another's processes and inventions; and in some ways,
perhaps, technical knowledge, with the confidence that it begets, may
be a condition not wholly conducive to sound conclusions. Expertness
in conjuring is of course no guarantee whatever of scientific habits of
thought; and the expert who comes to a BeamS with his preconceived
ideas, and who finds that the solution of the puzzle dOes not lie in the
direction which he had pictured as the probable one, may jump more
quickly than another to the certainty that no natural solution
is poBSible. Something more, then, and something different is needed.
We must seek to ascertain by definite experiment, wMt Bort of rtJPO'TtB
honest and intelligent persons will make of conjuring performances
carried out in private, without any advantage of conditions, and
directed to obtaining results as closely as possible resembling those on
which Spiritualists rely. If such reports of a conjurer's slate-writing
prove to agree, both in general character and in special details,
with the reports by which the hypothesis of occult powers in Eglinton's
case has been supported, that hypothesis falls to the ground; for no
one probably will maintain the occult character of events which
occur in a detected trickster's presence, whBn unable to name any.
point by which they can be distinguished from tricks. The reader will
find this subject amply argued and illustrated in the following paper,
which I may perhaps be excused for describing as an original and
valuable chapter in the Natural History of Error. G I E. G.
Digitized by oog e
The Po88ibilities of Mal-ObseT'Vation, J:c. 381
VI.
THE POSSIBILITIES OF MAIrOBSERVATION AND LAPSE
OF MEMORY
FROM A PRACTIOAL POINT OF VIEW.1
INTRODUCTION.
By RxCJLUU) HODGSON.
Concerning the physical phenomenaI of Spiritualism, Mr. A. R.
Wallace has said :-
They have all, or nearly all, been before the world for 20 years; the
theories and explanations of reviewers and critics do not touch them, or in any
way satisfy any sane man who has repeatedly witneBBed them ; they have
been tested and examined by sceptics of every grade of incredulity, men in
~very way qualified to detect imposture or todiscovernatural cau_trained
physicists, medical men, lawyers, and men of businesa-},ut in every case the
investigators have either retired hamed, or become converts. (Mimcl8B and
Modenl Bpirit-ualism, pp. 202, 203.)
It baa indeed been considered by perhaps the majority of
Spiritualists, not only that the recorded testimony to these physical
phenomena is enough to establish their genuineness, but that any
honest investigator might establish their genuinene88 to his own satis-
faction by personal experience. I agreed in a great measure with this
opinion when, some ten years ago, I attended my first seance; but
hitherto my personal experiences, though not by any means extensive,
have been almost precisely of the same nature as Mrs. Sidgwick's
(Proceeding', Part X., pp. 45, 46); the physical phenomena which I
have witnessed were either clearly ascertained by my friends and myself
to be fraudulent, or they were inconclusive and accompanied by circum-
stances which strongly suggested trickery. I regarded this result
merely as negative, since I had learnt early in my investigation that
spurious manifestations were undoubtedly often produced by professed
mediums; and three years ago I was still under the impreBSion that a
large mass of reliable testimony existed, adequate to establish the
genuineness of at least some of the commoner forms of physical pheno-
mena, and especially of "psychography,"-that is writing without any
operation of the medium's muscles. This was also quite recently
1 Parts both of Mr. Davey's article and of Mr. Hodgson's introdllction have
appeared in the Journal of the S.P.R.
S See Procudingll, Part X., p. 45.
Digitized by Coogle
382 The POBSibilitia of Mal-Observation, tl:c.
the opinion of Mr. C. C. Massey, who says (Procuding., Part X.p
p.98):-
But original reeearch is not neceaa.ry in the tint inltance. Mmy, of
whom I am one, are of an opinion that the cue for these phenomena generally,
and for II autography II 1 in particular, is already complete.
I have long since concluded that I estimated this testimony much
too highly. When, in June, 1884, after reading BOme accounta of
"psychography," I had a sitting with Eglinton for" slate-writing," I
fully expected to witneaa phenomena that should be as indubitably
beyond the suggestion of trickery as those appeared to be of which I
had read and heard descriptions. Writing was produced at my first.
"slate-writing" Bitting with Eglinton, to which I was accompanied by
Mr. R. W. Hogg; but Mr. Hogg and myself were both independently
of opinion that Eglinton produced the writing himself without the
intervention of any extraordinary agency. In writing our detailed
report of the sitting, we appreciatal, as we had never done before, the
difficulties of observation and of recollection,difficultieswhich we theught.
must almoat effectually prevent a full and accurate description from
being given of events analogous to those which we attempted to record.
Our report, and the reports of varioUl other sitters with Eglinton, moat
of whom were, however, convinced of the genuineneBB of Eglinton'&
phenomena, were printed in the Jourfl4l of the S.P.R. for June, 1886,
with BOme explanations and criticisms by Mrs. Sidgwick, who drew
attention to two of the incidents in his career "which show Ulat we
must not aaaume any disinclination on his part to paaa off conjuring
performances as occult phenomena." i Mrs. Sidgwick, who had
previously had the advantage of witneSBing BOrne of Mr. Davey's per-
formances, and comparing her reports with those of another witneBB,
and who had therefore been able to form BOme practical estimate
of the frailty of human perception and memory under the peculiar
circumstances involved, expreaaed her opinion that the phenomena
recerded in the accounts as having occurred in the presence of
Eglinton were attributable to "clever conjuring."
In the meantime, in the course of a visit to India for the
purpose of investigating the " Theosophical" phenomena of
Madame Blavatsky, I had had a BOmewhat considerable and varied
experience in comparing the testimonies of numerous bond fide
witneaaea to events belonging to the claaa of conjuring performances.
The moat instructive to me in the first instance were the different
accounts which I heard from eye-witne88eB of the tricks of the Hindco
jugglers. I saw many of these performances, and saw them
1 A word proposed 8.11 a substitute for" psychography."
I See the previous article, p. 350.
Digitized by Coogle
I ntrod'UCtion. 383
frequently, and having learnt secretly from the jugglers them-
selves how they were done, I was thereafter in a position to-
compare the accounts of them with the actual occurrences, and I was
surprised exceedingly to find to what extent they were misdescribed by
intelligent spectators who were unaware of the modus operandi of the
tricks. With the advantage of this experience, I studied in minute
detail the testimony to Eglinton's phenomena recorded in the Journal
for June, and found that if only the same kinds of misdescription
were allowed for in these reports as I had known to be honestly
displayed by equally intelligent witnesses, the phenomena were
perfectly explicable by conjuring. Not only was this the case, but
there were many little incidents mentioped, for the most part in-
nocentlyand almost casually, in the reports, which afforded indications
that if Eglinton's performances were not conjuring, they were very
curiously adapted to resemble conjuring operations. And when to-
these facts, besides the clear evidence of Eglinton's previous imposture,
was added the further fact, emphatically pointed out by Mrs. Sidgwick,
that every experiment with Eglinton so devised and carried out as
apparently to exclude the possibilities of trickery by dispensing with the
necessity for continuous observation, had failed,I-there could, I
thought, be little doubt, in the minds of rational and impartial in-
quirers, of the justice of the conclusion which Mrs. Sidgwick had
reached.
But this was not the case. Correspondence and controversy made it
clear that the ordinary reader did hesitate to agree with Mrs. Sidgwick,
and it SOOB became manifest that a common but erroneous assumption
prevailed concerning the reliability of human testimony under the
peculiar circumstances at issue. It appeared that a large number of the
readers of Mrs. Sidgwick's article in the Journal for June were preju.
diced in favour of ordinary'human powers of observation and recollec-
tion under-it is to be remembered-exceptionally adverse circum-
stances; and that they were thus prejudiced simply because they had
never made any special experiments,with the view ofascertainingexactly
how much reliance could be placed upon the reports of even acute
and intelligent observers of the "slate-writing" performances of a con-
jurer known as such. They had decided apriori as to the capa.city
of human perception and memory under quite peculiar conditions, and
most of them, I venture to say, had thus decided, not only without
possessing any familiarity with the various modes of producing" slate·
writing" by conjuring, but without possessing any familiarity with con-
juring tricks in general, and without being aware of the extent to
I For the discu88ion of this point see Proceedings, X., pp. 70·2, Journal
for June, 1886, pp. 332, 333, Journal for November, 1886, pp. 458·60, Journal
for December, 18116, pp••75 and .a1·85.
Digitized by Coogle
384 The P08sibilitiu of Mal-Observation, J:c.
which we are all subject to illusiom of M6fT&O'I"1j, which, in relation to
the reports of "psychography," are more deserving of consideration
than even illusions of Perception.
It seemed desirable, therefore, to carry out a somewhat more
systematic investigation than had heretofore beenattetnpted,-to provide
the ordinary reader with the opportunity of comparing for himself the
records given of conjuring performances by the uninitiated, with the
testimony offered for the genuineness of mediumistic phenomena. To
the accomplishment of this task Mr. S. J. Davey has given much
valuable labour, as the sequel abundantly shows. This, however, was
not enough. It is obvious, of course, that any report is worthless for
proving occult agency if a similar report by an equally competent
witness is given of what is known to be a conjuring trick. But this
in itself would not enable us to estimate the true worth of testimony
in such cases; on the contrary, it mightjust as well lead to a new and
irrational faith in the unlimited capacity of conjuring. No doubt there
are special "dodges," unique wonders of workmanship, staggering
llashes of well-nigh incredible dexterity, for which we must always
leave ample margin in any pronouncement upon the limitations of a
conjurer. Still, with all this, and after the largest allowances have
been made for the possibilities of simple failure to observe, it will be
admitted that there are numerous records of "psychographic»
phenomena that have occurred with mediums (and also with Mr.
Davey), which, (II described, are inexplicable by trickery. It was of
the utmost importance, therefore, to determine how far such records
might be misdescriptions, and what were the chief causes of th';
misdescriptions. In the course of a paper contributed to the JaurnoJ,
I urged that the principal cause of misdescription, apart from mal-
observation, was the untrustworthiness of memory, and I endeavoured
to classify roughly the main forms into which the errors of recollection
fell. That students of mental science like Mr. Roden Noel and Mr.
Massey should put aside so easily the considerations which I alleged
with respect to the treachery of memory, suggests that these considera-
tions had, in all probability, been absolutely unheeded by the ordinary
recorder, unfamiliar with the more delicate processes of introspective
discrimination. And alth&ugh in the Jowrnall felt it almost needful
to apologise for my exposition of the lapses to which we are all liable,
on the ground that they had been " almost entirely overlooked by the
antagonists of Mrs. Sidgwick's view," the result has shown, not only
that they had been entirely overlooked in the degree to which I urged
them, but that the most eminent defenders of mediumistic phenomena
refused to admit their validity or their significance. But my warrant
for the importance of these considerations was much more than the
experience of my own lapses in recording, confirmed as that was by the
Digitized by Coogle
Introduction. 385
discovery of radical discrepancies between independent reports of one
and the same Rance, in the cases where such independent reports were
given of sittings with Eglinton; nor was it restricted to the
lessons which I bad learnt by a comparison of oral and written accounts
of common conjuring tricks with my knowledge of the real events; my
warrant consisted further in the fact that all the forms of error to which
I alluded are actually embodied in the reports of Mr. Davey'S perform-
ances. In repeating these considerations here, then, I desire the
reader to bear in mind that they are not vague theoretical speCUlations
as to possibilities which have rarely if ever been realised, but· warnings
against veritable pitfalls which are dangerous even to the most wary
investigator, into which Mr. Davey's sitters demonstrably fell, and
Eglinton's sitters also demonstrably, in the cases which admitted of
direct ascertainment.
I shall first recount an incident which occurred in connection with
a Hindoo juggler's performance unconnected with Spiritualism, and
which produced a deep impression upon myself at the time.
. The juggler was sitting upon the ground immediately in front of
the hotel, with his feet crossed. Two small carved wooden figures were
resting on the ground, about two feet distant from the juggler. Some
coins were also lying on the ground near the figures. The juggler
began talking to the figures, which moved at intervals, bowing,
"kissing," and bumping against each other. The coins also began to
move, and one of them apparently sprang from the ground and struck
one of the figures. An officer and his wife, who had but recently
arrived at the hotel, were spectators with myself, and we stood
probably within two yards' distance of the juggler. I knew how the
trick was performed; they did not know. The officer drew a coin
from his pocket, and asked the juggler if this coin would also jump.
The juggler replied in the affirma.tive, and the coin was then placed
near the others on the ground, after which it betrayed the same
propensity to gymnastic feats as the juggler's own coins. Two or three
other travellers were present at dinner in the evening of the same day,
and in the course of the conversation the officer described the
marvellous trick which he had witnessed in the afternoon. Referring
to the movements of the coins, he said that he had taken a coin from
his own pocket and placed it on the ground himself, yet that this coin
had indulged in the same freaks as the other coins. His wife ventured
to suggest that the juggler bad taken the coin and placed it on the
ground, but the officer was emphatic ill repeating his statement, and
appealed to me for confirmation. He was, however, mistaken. I had
watched the transaction with special curiosity, as I knew what was
necessary for the performance of the trick. The officer had apparently
intended to place the coin upon the ground himself, but as he was
Digitized by ~@o8Ie ....
386 The PoBBibilitia of Mal-Observation, cI:c.
doing 80, the juggler leant slightly forward, dexterously and in a most
unobtrusive manner received the coin from the fingers of the officer as
the latter was stooping down, and laid it close to the others. If the
juggler had not thus taken the coin, but had allowed the officer himself
to place it on the ground, the trick, as actually performed, would have
been frustrated.
Now I think it highly improbable that the movement of the
juggler entirely escaped the perception of the officer-highly
improbable, that is to say, that the officer was absolutely unaware
of the juggler's action at the moment of its happening; but I suppose
that although an impression was made upon his consciousness, it was
80 slight as to be speedily effaced by the officer's imaginatitm of himself
as stooping and placing the coin upon the ground. The officer, I may
say, had obtained no insight into the modUlI operandi of the trick, and
his fundamental misrepresentation of the only patent occurrence that
might have given him a clue to its performance debarred him com-
pletely from afterwards, in reflection, arriving at any explanation.
JustsiJpiIarly, many an honest witness may have described himself as
having placed one slate upon another at a sitting with a II medium,"
whereas it was the medium who did 80, and who possibly effected at
the same time one or two other operations altogether unnoticed by the
witness.1
Now it is the universal mental weakness of which the above
incident is an illustration, that forms one of the main 80urces of error
in the reports of II psychography." There are, of course, other sources
of error, such as the direct illusions of perception Caused by mechanical
contrivances or the dexterity of the medium or the dominant expectations
of the witness; there is also notably the distraction of the sitter's
attention to such an extent that he is not aware at all of certain actions
performed by the medium, but this often results in positive
misdescription owing to the weakness of memory ; as Mrs. Sidgwick
remarks (JO'UIfflal for June, 1886), "we are liable not only to allow
our attention to be distracted, but to forget immediately that it has
been distracted, or that the event which distracted it ever occurred H j
and the source of error which I desire in particular to press upon the
reader's notice is the perishability, the exceeding transienee, the fading
feebleness, the evanescence beyond recall, of certain impressions which
nevertheless did enter the domain of consciousness, and did in their due
place form part of the stream of impetuous waking thought. /I
It is, moreover, not simply and merely that many events, which did
obtain at the sitting some share of perception, thus lapse completely
from the realm of ordinary recollection. The consequence may indeed
1For aD example see SITTING II, Note 7. p.4117.
Digitized by Coogle
Introduction. 387
be that we meet with a blank or a chaos in traversing the particular
field of remembrance from which the events have lapsed; 1 but this
will often be filled by some conjectured events which rapidly become
attached to the adjacent parts, and form, in conjunction with them, a
consolidated but fallacious fragment in memory.s On the other hand,
the consequence may be that the edges of the lacunm close up-events
originally separated by a considerable interval are now remembered
vividly in immediate juxtaposition, and there is no trace of the
piecing.S
Another source of error which bears a kinship to this depends
sometimes upon the absence of a prolonged carefulness in writing out
the original record of the sitting. Events which occurred during the
sitting, which made a comparatively deep impression, which had not,
at the time of recording, sunk beyond the possibility of recall, never-
theless do not appear in the report, because they were temporMil'IJ
forgotten; and having been thus omitted, the temporary forgetfulness
is likely to become permanent, owing to the very coherence given to
the defective account by the recording.4
Last September I spent many hours recalling and writing notes of
a slate-writing sMnce. The task occupied me some six or seven con-
tinuous hours on each of the two days following the evening of the
seance. Taking the first page' of my M88., I find, among what are
plainly interpolations /I after the page was originally completed, an
exceedingly noteworthy passage.
I bad held the slate against the table instantaneously after the
" conjurer" had placed it in position; the slate was shortly afterwards
withdrawn, and the chalk which had been placed upon it was found
cru"hed. The chalk marks were cleaned oft'. A second time I held
it similarly, and on withdrawal a dash was found on the slate, which
was again cleaned. After noting these and other directly connected
eyents, I had originally written, placing the occurrence before the pro-
duction of writing: "He then iumed the slate over, and put the nib
of chalk on, and asked me to hold." My alteration of this reads :
1 Partial omi88i0n. For an example see SI'l"l'ING IV, Report I, Mr.
Padshah's discUSllion of [fl, p. 440.
2 SubBtitution. For an example see SITTING III, Nots 5, p. 490.
a Compl6t6 omi88ion. For an example see SITTING II, Nots 17, p. 489.
4 Complsts omi88ion tsmporary. For an example see SITTING IV,
Nots 12, p. 491.
D I still recollect, 88' I think, my surprise at finding, while I W88 engaged.
in making the record, that I had forgotten at the moment 'such an important
incident 88 that referred to in the interpolation.; but apart from this, the
passage W88 uadoubtedly written afterwards, 88 appears from its position,.&c.
1 may add that I had probably spent an hour or two in orliinally noting
the first page. ~ I
Digitized 9' 'tf'~08 e
388 The P088ibilitieB 0/ Mal-Observation, Icc.
.. After holding BOme time, he asked me to put my holding hand upon
his other holding B.'s, BO as to complete circuit. With this exception
I held the slate in each case against the table. Later, he asked me to
hold again." I had nearly omitted this most important exceptional
circumstance here described, correctly described-as I have since
learnt from the .. conjurer." I may further notice that it occurred
before the first writing was obtained, as I rightly placed it. The
" conjurer" did tum the slate over as I originally wrote, on three sub-
sequent occasions during the sitting, but he did not do BO previous to
the appearance of the first writing. My temporary forgetfulner.s thus
involved the temporary insertion of a conjectured event. Or, since the
event thus inserted did actually occur later in the litting, the insertion
of it in the wrong place may be regarded as an illustration of the ten-
dency to transposition, tic? which Mr. Angelo J. Lewis has also drawn
attention (Journal for August, p. 362), in referring to the difficulty of re-
calling in their proper order such events as those in question; it is almost
impossible to avoid confusing the sequence if the events are crowded,
even if they appeared at the time of their occurrence to be of special
importance.1
In addition to the mistakes which thus originate from the lapsing
of certain events beyond recollection, there is the further mistake to
which we are liable, of unwittingly iDaerting events between others
which occurred in immediate sequence. This of course also depends
upon the weakne88 of memory ; the events as. they originally occurred
may have acquired only a loose coherence in consciousness, so that
an event afterwards imagined usurps easily a place in the series and
becomes fixed by recording and repetition. Aperfeetly pure interpo-
lation,-that is, one which does not involve either BUbstitution or
transpontion,-probably does tlOt occur very often, and it would not be
easy to establish the fact of its occurrence in any particular case;
mixed interpolations are not uncommon.2
. Now it is quite impoSsible to estimate rightly the reports of
" psychography" and analogous performanCes without having some
experimental knowledge as to now far such reports lIiay be rendered
untrustworthy by these faults of partial and of cOlliplete omi88ion, of
substitution, of transposition, and of interpolation.;:
Suppose that we are considering the testi~OllY of a witness to his
1 Tramp08ition. For an example see SI1"I'ING XV, Note 3, p. 494.
. I Interpolation. For examples see SITTING III [c], p. 436, and Note 5.
p. 490; SITTING IV, Note 15, p. 492; SI1"I'ING VIII, Note 1, p. 493.
I I have Bot attempted to arrange the faults of memory which I have
briefly specified in any system of exclusive division, but rather to exhibit them
in their modes of genesis. This is no~ the place to discuss theDl in greater
detail.
Digitized by Coogle
Introduction. 389
own separate and complete examination of a slate immediately previous,
to the apparent production of writing. Then, according to what I
have been saying, we have-with a perfectly bond fide witness-four
possibilities to consider besides the one that his impression is correct.
It may actually be that no examination at all was made by the witness
(interpolation); it may be that, although made. the examination was
not made in the perfect manner now described (substitution) ; it may be
that the examination, although faultless and made at the sitting, was
not made on the occasion alleged (transposition); or it may be that
although the examination was made as described,and on the occasion
alleged, events, perhaps unnoticed or regarded by the witness as insignifi-
cant, intervened between the examination and the apparent production
of the writing (omission).
I need hardly say that in relation to these inherent faults
of memory leading to misdescription, we must consider the
natural tendency to exaggerate in recording phenomena sug
gestive of occult agency; hence, in many cases, further omissionR
and interpolations. But we must carefully distinguish this tendency
to exaggerate from another cause of transfiguration which affects both
perception and memory. I refer to the mental attitude of the sitter
during the seance.l Events that under ordinary circumstances, or if
the witnesses were intent upon discovering a trick, would make a com-
paratively deep and lasting impression upon cOnsciousness, glide past
or are swiftly forgotten, simply because of the absorption of the
spectator's interest in the supposed "supernormal" manifestations.
The distortion traceable in many reports is largely due to special lapses -
of memory for the explanation of which we must look chiefly to this
peculiar emotional state. I shall refer to this consideration in
pointing out some of the difficulties in the way of Mr. Davey's investiga.-
tions (see p. 396); and its importance, even as regards mal-observation,
has, I am sure,' been widely under-estimated. We cannot doubt
that many a Spiritualist has found htk convictions confirmed at
some seance by'displays of the most paltry imposture, who would,
hSd he attended the. seance under the assurance that he was
about t<;l witness a conjuring performance, have detected the modus
opera1u1i instantly. I may give an instance which came under my own
observation. At a materialisation seance given by Firman, at which I
was present, a supposed "spirit-form" appeared, draped.in a semi-
transparent flowing robe,-so transparent, in fact, that Firman's bare
arm was visible behind it, waving it to and fro. When the figure
retired to the" cabinet," the door closed upon a portion of the robe.
The door opened again slightly, and the end of the robe was drawn into
I An illustration of these remarks will be feund in tile accounts of. the
different witnesses of SrrrING II. See p. 426. /'
Digi
390 The P088ibilitie8 of Mal-Observation, J:c.
the" cabinet." Most of the sitters perceived this clearly, but one, &
"believer," averred conscientiously that the fabric was not withdrawn."
and that he saw it slowly melt away.
I think it will hardly be denied that there are extreme cases where
unquestioning faith incapacitates an otherwise intelligent witness; &nd
although I do not challenge Mr. Massey's opinion that for mediumistic
phenomena a certain psychical co-operation with the medium on the
part of the investigator may be necesa.a.ry, I entertain no doubt that
the witness who gives this co-operation is le88 likely to discover
trickery than the man who is bent on discerning the modUlI operandi
of what he knows to be conjuring. Nay, I shall go further and say that
there is an important difference between the investigator, however
" sceptical," who thinks itpOllBible that supernormal manifestations will
occur, and the investigator who has some solid ground of &88urance,
independent of his own "scepticism," that the manifestations will be
conjuring tricks. The failure to understand this has caused BOme
Spiritualists to put forward the claim that Mr. Davey should produce
in their presence a phenomenon similar to, and under the same condi-
tions as, some phenomenon which they describe themselves as having
witnessed with a profe88ional medium, or that he should at all events
produce the appearOlRCe of those conditions, &C. In the first place,
those who have put forward this claim do not seem to have taken the
obvious course of demanding first that the medium should reproduce
the phenomenon as they desire Mr. Davey to reproduce it; and in the
second place they ignore the fa.ctthat their own "psychical condition,"
so different in the two cases-in one, a favouring co-operation, in the
other, a resolve to expose-might be a bar to Mr. Davey, but an open
door to the medium. Mr. Massey thinks that the sort of c(H)peration
required is "a mental disposition perfectly consistent with the most
scientific vigilance." (Proceeding" Part X., p. 98.) But his belief in
the poBBibility of this is not supported by what we know of mental
action, since if any attention is being given to a favouring C(H)peration,
probably less will be available in consequence for so diBBimilar a task
as the exercise of "scientific vigilance" j it is certainly not in
accordance with my own experience as a psychically c(H)perating I
sitter with mediums, and is directly opposed to the conclusions which
I have formed as an observer of Mr. Davey's wttnesses.
In estimating, therefore, the value of the testimony to "psycho-
graphy," we must ask-How much misdescription are we likely to find
in the record that may be due to the ignorance of the witness concern-
ing the points worth mentioning' How much misdescription are we
likely to find owing to the impulse of the witness to exaggerate, possibly
stimulated by the impetus of a new enthusiasm or the momentum of a
cherished belief , We then come to the events as recollected at tits tir1l8
Digitized by Coogle
Introduction. 391
of eM record. How much distortion from the ewnL9 as originally
perceived must we expect to fin~ in this recollection, owing to the
inherent weakness of memory, increased as that may be by the peculiar
mental attitude or emotional state of the witness t How far, in the
next place, may a description of the events as perceived by the
witness, have differed from a full and accurate description of the
eyents as they actually occurred, owing to the special ma.l-observa-
tion displayed by the witness in consequence of a peculiar
mental attitude or emotional state t Finally, how much must we
allow for the mal-observation that may be caused by the exceptionally
disturbing in.6.uence of "a person skilled in particular forms
of deception, whose chief object is to prevent the witnesses from
perceiving many of the actual occurrences, and to persuade them, by
ingenious illusions, to an erroneous belief concerning others" 1(J01JIf"n(J,/,
of the S.P.R. for January, 1887.)
I endeavoured to show in the J01JIf"n(J,/, (October, November,
Supplement to December, 1886)-making certain assumptions as to the
defects of perception and memory under the special circumstances
involved-that the reports, printed in the Jowmal for June, 1886,
of Eglinton's performances, were worthleBB for proving occult agenCy.
The aBBumptions which I made are completely justified by the mistakes
which have been exhibited by those witnesses of Mr. Davey'S perform-
ances who are known to myself-persons whose general intelligence,
knowledge of conjuring, powers of observation and retentiveness, &c.-
so far as I can judge of these-entitle them to be placed on the
same level as the writers of the reports printed in the Jowrnal for
June, the majority of whom I also know personally. And I have
not yet seen any report of "psychography" which, when due allowance
is made for the untrustworthiness of observation and recollection,
excludes the poBBibilities of conjuring.
By way of illustratmn I shall here deal briefly with a case
concerning which Mr. O. C. Massey specially challenges judgment. It
is true that he does this chiefly upon the question of mal-observation,
but the case will serve as well to illustrate the poBBibilities of
memory illusion and trick mechanism. Mr. Massey quotes from
the case in P'I'OCeedingB, Part x., pp. 87, 88, and refers to his report
in Light of April 19th, 1884, from which I take the following
extract :-
There waa a pile of Mr. Eglinton's own slates upon the table, md it waa
alwaya upon one or other of these that the writing was obtained. Of the
two that were used, I cleaned one, after it had been well wetted, with a dry
sponge, myaelf, on both sides; the other I saw similarly treated by Mr.
Eglinton. Of course' I watched to see that there was no unoblelTed /
change of alate, nor did Mr. Eglinton rise from his seat during J;Jle IMSaoce,
Digitized by l::.oogle
392 The POBBibilitia of Mal-Observation, I:c.
except once, to write do'lt'll an addl'8ll I had given him. It will. be under-
IItood that we eat in broad daylight.
We noticed two faote (alwaYB obaerved likewiae with Slade). one of which,
certainly, could not reeult from any voluntary act of the medium. ThiB"..
the lowering of the temperature of the hand which held the alate, just before
and after the writing. The other fact ".. the ceBl&tion of the BOund of
writing when Eglinton broke the contact of hiB hand with my own.
From my experience with Slade, I".. Bure that BUoceea wu near when I
felt the coldne.. of the medium'B hand, u he reeted it, with the alate, on the
table, juat before the writing came. Mr. Eglinton now)aid one of the two
equal-Bized alate. (101 inchel by 7t) fiat upon the other, the uaua1 acrap of
pencil being encloaed. Both alates were then, u I carefully ..urad myaelf,
perfectly clean on ~th BurfBC8B. He then forthwith, and without any
previoua dealing with them, presented one end of the two alate&, held
together by hlmaelf at the other end, for me to hold with my left hand, on
which he placed hil own right. I cluped the alate&, my thumb on the fl'lWle
of the upper one (1 inch), and three of my fingera, reaching about; four inchee,
forcing up the lower alate againat the upp6r one. We did not hold the alate.
underneath the table, but at the lide, a little below the level. Mr. Noel wu
thul able to obaerve the position. Mr. Eglinton held the alatea firmly
together at hie end, u I can _n, becauae I particularly obaerved that there
wu no gap at hiB end. I &lao noticed hiB thumb on the top of the alate&,
and can eay that it rested quite quietly throughout the writing, which we
heard almoat immediately and continuoualy, except when Mr. Eglinton
once" raiaed hiB hand from mine, when the BOund ceued till contact wu
resumed.
The inner surface of one of the Blates was shortly afterwards found
covered with writing.
Mr. Roden Noel corroborateB Mr. M&BBey's description, saying
"Every word of thiB account I am able to endorse."
Now I BuppOBe that the writing had been prepared by Eglinton
beforehand, and that it was upon one of the slates which Mr. Massey
was then holding. How much (a) mal-observation, or (6) lapse of
memory, or (c) ignorance of conjuring contrivances on the part of Mr.
Massey does this supposition appear to involve'
(a) It must be observed, to begin with, that the phenomenon was
not a simple and isolated one; nor was it, 80 far as appears from the
account, suggested by Mr. Massey, or previously prepared for by him ;
the slateB were Eglinton's, and there was a pile of Eglinton's slates
on the table; Mr. Massey's attention, moreover, seems to have been
partly given to the temperature of Eglinton's hand.
What Mr. M&BBey really meant when he wrote in Light, "Both
slates were then, as I carefully &BBured myself, perfectly clean OD
both surfaces,"_ is by no means clear. Wkm did Mr. M&BBeY
1 The above sentence (together with Mr. Noel's eDdolllelllent) hardly seems
exactly equivalent to "our statement that Mr. EglintoD, .alter eD110Bing the
Digitized by ~008 e
Introductio'n. 393
assure himself' bVlYr6 or aft6'l' Eglinton laid one slate upon the other'
If after, are we to presume that he took the slates into his own hands
and examined all four surfaces' Who, in this case, placed the slates
together again' Mr. Massey, or Eglinton '1--" we must have particu-
larity of statement, evidence that the witness has himself analysed the
observation into the acts of perception constituting i,t, and that at the
time of observation." (P'I"oceedings, Part X., p. 89.) We should, I
think, do least violence to Mr. Massey's report if we suppose him to
have meant to say that he had carefully assured himself just be/lYr6
Eglinton laid one slate upon the other; and in this case I hold that
Mr. Massey's observation could have been deceived, that there might
have been one side of one slate, which he never saw, or that another
s1&te might have been substituted for one of two slates, both sides of
which he did see. Mr. Massey does not state that he took the two
slates in question into his own hands, and I have no ground for suppos·
ing that at that time he was an expert in detecting sleight-of-hand
manipulations of slates.~ So much for the amount of mal-observation
required.
(h) Proceeding now to lapse of memory, let us suppose that
the slates were clean when Eglinton laid them together as de-
scribed. Mr. Massey says that Eglinton "then forthwith, and
without any previous dealing with them, presented," &c. The
sitting was in the afternoon, and Mr. Massey wrote his account of
it in the evening of the same day. We have to consider there-
fore whether it is possible that Mr. Massey-with the grant of an
exceptionally good memory - should have 'l"ememh6'l'M Eglinton's
presentation of the slates to him as having immediately followed upon
Eglinton's original placing of them together, although these events
might in reality have been separated by an interval during which
Eglinton might have changed one of the slates for a third. For ex-
ample, suppose that when Eglinton lifted the slates the pencil dropped
out, and Eglinton removed one slate, placed a scrap of pencil on the
second slate, and then replaced, not the first, but a third slate lying
close by on the table. Might seme apparently trivial (to the conception
of Mr. Massey) incident of this kind have been completely forgotten
by Mr. Massey when he was writing his account, so that the preceding
pencil within the slates which we then 'carefully &8IIured' ourSelves were botA
quite clean on botA sunac88," &C. (Prouecling8, loco cit.). There is nothingsaid
in the original report about Mr. Noel'8 "carefully &8IIuring" himself, and the
meaning of t/&en, is here less apparently ambiguous than in the original report.
1 To avoid complication I am dealing with points of observation and memory
as separately as possible. But in connection with Mr. M&BBey's statement
which I have considered above, I might have qU88tioned whether he had not
misplaced hisJeeling of &8IIurance or the prDCUI by which he &88UrM himself.
Digitized by ~oo8le
3940 The PoBBibilities of Mal-Observation, tl:c.
and succeeding events becamejoined in his remembrance t 80 far am
I from thinking this impossible, that I regard it, owing to my
experiences with other witneaaea, sa not even improbable. Indeed I
think it even possible that Mr. Massey's holding of the slates might
have been intMTupted by some analogously" trivial" incident. Stat&-
ments moat expre88 and definite, made by an honest witne88, may, sa I
have already pointed out, be erroneous from other causes than simple
mal-obaervation or the unwit:f.ing interpolation of" specific and positive
acts of perception," though they may be erroneous from these causes
also. They are often due to other and more frequent forms of the
universal weakness of human memory, and may be the resnlt of
transposition in the order of events, or of a mere and sheer lapse.
Concerning the poBBibilities, then, either of mal-observation or of
lapse of memory, I traverse Mr. M8088ey's assertion that" the witness
could not innocently use terms BXprtJ"ly and ckfiniuly inconsistent
with what really happened," which I must characterise &8 an aBBump-
tion completely destroyed by the reports of Mr. Davey's performances.
(c) But let us now admit, for the present purpose, that Mr. Massey's
account of the incident i!I correct. He adds, in his report in lAg""
(p-. IW), tha,t·" &8 writing by the medium himself at the time is
absolutely out of the question, there are onlythree other conceivable
suggestions &8 opposed to occult agency." I do not of course question
the veracity of the witnesses; and the other two suggestions, which
Mr. Massey offers reasons for rejecting, are" a change of slate," and
"concealed writing brought out by heat.'; Another suggestion has
since, apparently, occurred to him.
" .Aa it is imaginable that a thin sheet of lllate, already inscribed on one
lIide, might be loollely fitted into the frame of one of the alatell U8ed,
clean lIurface uppennost, so &II to fall into the frame of the
other alate, written lIide uppennOllt, when the fint was placed upon
the second, it is fortunate that I W&ll able to exclude that lIuggestion
by my po8IIell8ion of the slate on which the writing appeared,
which, by.the·bye, W&II wrapped in paper, either by myself or by
Mr. Eglinton-under my eY8ll, at my requellt, and carried away by
me, immedutlely after we had examined the writing, the Bitting
being then clOlled." (Proceedlfl9'j ~".x, Pl'. 88-9.)
There is clear indication that Mr. Massey had not contemplated this
poBBibility at the time-two years earlier~f the sitting, and it might
be contended that the slate which Mr. Massey took away W&8 not that
one of the two slates upon which the writing was first found, but
another similarly inscribed slate, which Eglinton had provided for the
purpose; it probably often happens that sitters request permission to
take away the slates upon which writing has appeared. "Mr. Massey
would apparently guard against this hypothesis of a~8eq~nt change
ized byL.oogle
Int'l'Oduction. 395
of alate by the laat sentence of the passage quoted above, but no
importance can be attributed to this,-if only on the ground that Mr.
M.assey was unaware, at the time of the sitting, of the possibility to
which he has more recently drawn attention. If the sentence in
question expresses-not some record made by Mr. Massey on the day of
the sitting, but-Mr. Massey's r6m6mbmnce a.fter two Y6Ol1"', and if he
aeriously means it to exclude the hypothesis before us, there would be a
vaster divergence than I have hitherto supposed between Mr. Massey
and myself as to the ordinary psychology of memory ; and I should,
especially when Ifrecallthe rigorous signification with which Mr. Massey
professedly uses the word immediately, class the sentence as an instance
of b0n4 fide transfiguration of the same character as some which I
supposed in Mr. Davey's reports of Eglinton. (Journa.l of the S.P.R.
for November, 1886.)
But I may point out that there is another suggestion still, which
does not appear to me to be inconsistent with anything that M.r. Massey
has said. The slate upon which the writing was found may have been
an ordinary slate, and may have been taken away by Mr. Massey, and
eM other .late, though apparently ordinary, ~ay have been a.trick slate,
with room for a false flap that could be fixed, if necessary, by a spring,
and that was also adapted to fit the ordinary slate, and which had been
placed so as to cover the prepared writing. The details of the trick will
be obvious.
Mr. Massey's case is thus, in my opinion, vitiated on three
separate grounds, by the considerations due to the possibilities of mal-
observation, lapse of memory, and trick mechanism. I cannot, therefore,
attach much value to his opinion, which, when his record appeared in
Light, was :-
" I am as satisfied that this was a genuine phenomenon as I am that the
words on this paper are of my own writing."
But while in this instance Mr. Massey's confidence in 1884 proves
to have been misplaced, in consequence of his ignorance of a possible
piece of trick apparatus, I do not think that his high estimate of the
evidence for" psychography" generallyis invalidated chiefly either by
ignorance of this kind, or by his large trust in human observation. It
is invalidated chiefly, I venture to think, by his apriori presumption
that honest witnesses cannot use terms "expTIlB.ly and definitely
inconsistent with what really happened" ; and he could not have made
this presumption had he given due weight to the possibilities of memory
illusion. I have already sho.Jn what small lapses of memory may have
made his own specific and positive assertions erroneous; and it is
obvious how, by simple omissions and transpositions, without any pure
interpolations at all, the record of an honest witness may be~ndered
Digitized by ~008le
396 The P088ibilities of Mol-Observation, etc.
full of the most fundamental misstatements. Much of Mr.lfassey's
paper, as he himself says, was cc an attempt to show" that .. the
supposition of such descriptions as • he ' and others have given of
Eglinton's slate-writing being given of the performances of an avowed
conjurer . . . is an impossible one." (ProcudingB, Part X, p. 108.)
The reader may decide for himself whether this II impossibility" has
been realised or not. For my own part, I maintain that the reports
which follow are a practical and complete rejoinder to the considera-
tions alleged by Mr. Massey in his reply to the position advanced by
Mrs. Sidgwick.
I may here again draw attention to some of the difficulties (W'hieh
I pointed out in the JOtIIf"flOl, of the S.P.R. for October, l~) in the
way of obtaining adequate reports of cc slate-writing" performances
which are known independently to be the result of conjuring, and to
the manner in which these difficulties have been partially, though not
completely, overcome by Mr. Davey. In the first place, proficiency in
the production of apparently cc occult" slate-writing requires not only
practice in the manipulation of slates, &c., but a lengthened experience
of sitters, '!ihich cannot be acquired in a short time by a person who
is chiefly occupied with other business. It is har;dly to be expected
that accounts of a novice's phenomena should compare for marvellous-
ness with the results of .. old mediumistic hands" like Eglinton and
Slade. Still, Mr. Davey was able to devote much of his time during the
latter part of last year to the improvement of his methods, and has
thus been able to produce results which in quality, if not in quantity,
may fitly be compared, for the purposes of our inquiry, with the
productions of the best professional mediums.
In the second place, I must repeat that it is impossible to induce
the same peculiarity of mental attitude in the sitters with a professed
conjurer, as they would have assumed had they been sitting with a
professional medium. I think I may safely say that not a single person
of all those whose reports were published in the Jowrnal for June
felt certain beforehand that Eglinton's performances were explicable
by conjuring; indeed, I may go further and say that nearly all, if not
all, thought it not improbable that the phenomena were genuine,
and that most of them bad been strongly impressed by reports which
they had previously heard or read. Now,the evidence of a person
holding this attitude is likely to be of decidedly less value cfllUril pariInu
than that of a person who fully believes that he is·watching a conjuring
trick. I do not mean merely that there is a reluctance on his part to
say or do anything which may imply a direct suspicion of the honesty
of the II medium," or that, so far as his attention is directed at all,
it is too exclusively occupied with the observation of the conditions
at the time when the II occult" agency is BUfJPOBed to be actually
Digitized by Coogle
Introduction. 397
producing the writing; though from these causes also, in many cases,
his testimony is likely to be less reliable. What I mea.n is that the idea
of communication from the" spirit-world," or of some supernormal power
in the" medium," will, in most persons, possess activity enough, even
before any results are obtained, to interfere more or less with the obser-
vation of the conditions involved ; and after the results are obtained, the
dominance of the idea will frequently be great enough to contribute
very materially to the naturally speedy oblivescence of many details of
the sitting which were hardly noticed at the time of their occurrence,
which in the course perhaps of an hour or two have dimmed out
of recollection, but which, nevertheless, would have suggested the
secret of the trick. Under this head I may also refer to the fact' that
the conversation held by the· sitters with a professed conjurer will
probably be of less avail in distracting their attention than if they
were sitting with a "med!"um" with any the smallest expectation that
" occult" phenomena. might occur. In the former case they are well
aware that the conversation is for the express purpose of distracting
their attention from the movements of the conjurer ; in the latter case,
they endeavour to a certain extent to occupy the mind-according to
instructions-with matters foreign to the sequence of events then and
there transpiring.
In the third place, comparatively few persons are willing to write
out reports of slate-writing experiences with a full account of
the supposed test conditions, if they have any suspicion that
the writing has been produced by mere conjuring. They are
afraid of appearing ridiculous, and in this dread, if they are per-
suaded to write reports at all, they wnte them with a meagre
allowance of detail, and with an abstention from dogmatic statement.
No doubt the fear of ridicule has deterred many persons from writing
reports on behalf of the professed" medium," but we must not disguise
from ourselves the fact that when this fear has been overcome by the
enthusiasm which often accompanies the formation of a new belief, the
reports then are less to be trusted, by reason of that very enthusiasm.
Analogous to that undeliberate warping of evidence which arises from
the desire to justify the adoption of a new faith and to aid in
proselytising others, is that which arises from the desire to strengthen
the grounds of a conviction which has already been fully formed ;
the spiritualistic bias has been much more operative in transfiguring the
accounts of mediumistic phenomena than most Spiritualists would be
willing to admit. Possibly a wider experience may result in our finding
a counterpart to this in the testimonials to professed conjuring perfor-
mances, but my experience hitherto leads me to think that such a result
is highly improbable.
These difficulties have been partly obviated by the fact tQA..t manl of
Digitized by ~0081e
398 The POBBibilities of Mal-Observation, Icc.
Mr. Davey's sitters were not informed until after they had written their
reports that his phenomena were due to conjuring. It has, neverthe-
less, weakened some of the accounts, that Mr. Davey felt himself
restrained from asserting that the phenomena were produced by
" spirits"; he frequently asserted that they were not produced by spirits,
but that he preferred to adopt the ordinary procedure of the spiritual-
istic medium; and, refusing to offer any explanation, thus shrouding
their origin in convenient mystery, he usually requested his witnesses
to determine the causes of the phenomena for themselves, the possibility
of triQkery included. Sometimes, indeed, he assured his sitters that he
would take advantage of any carelessness which they displayed; and on
one occasion he informed a sitter to whom the locked slate was after-
wards entrusted and who placed it in the tail of his coat, that if he
obtained an opportunity he would even take the slate from the pocket
of this very sitter, and write upon it surreptitiously. Later in the
sitting this witness, who I mlU" say had been previously impressed by
some writing obtained at a sitting with Eglinton, was called upon to
produce the locked slate, and place it upon the table; yet so much
had he been carried away by the appearance of the writing just
produced by Mr. Davey on a single slate, that he had, for the time,
completely forgotten the existence of the locked slate, and did not
remember what he had done with it until the other sitters reminded
him that he had placed it in his own pocket. This is a very extreme
case of the influence of a mental attitude which has undoubtedly in
some degree been very prevalent among sitters for mediumistio
phenomena.
Not that it is by any means universal; and this leads me to say
that one great advantage which some mediums, especially Eglinton,
have used very freely, has been foregone by Mr. Davey. He has not
been withheld from producing phenomena by the apparent observancy
of the sitters. My own choice of sitters for Mr. Davey was deter-
mined chieJiy 1 by the desire to obtain educated and intelligent
witnesses who did not know certainly that Mr. Davey's performances
were conjuring, and who could be relied upon to write out a detailed
account soon after the sitting. Mr. Davey's unfortunate ill-health,
soon after I first met him in September of last year, alone prevented
him from obtaining a much larger number of reports. The witnesses
were invariably urged to write their accounts as soon as possible after
1 I had another reason as well for requesting Mr. Davey to give a sitting
to Mr. Padahah. I knew that Mr. Padahah had had lOme unconvincing sittiDga
with Eglinton. Mr. and Mrs. RUBBell were unexpected witnessea; Mr. Legge
was also an unexpected witness. A ~ance was given to Mr. Dodds because he
had scoffed mercilessly at Mr.Legge's account of his experience.-See SrrrIN08
11, III, IV, VIII.
Digitized by Coogle
1ntrodu..ction. 399
the sitting, while the occurrences were still fresh in their memory. It
will be difficult for persons who have not had experience in making
records of this kind to realise how quickly even incidents which have
been recognised as important fade out of memory. And nothing
betrays more fully the misappreciation of the value of the testimony
we are considering than the reliance which has been so commonly
placed upon detailed reports written weeks, months, and even years
after the seance. I may refer here to the worthlessness of second-
hand accounts and of abridged accounts. A careful original account,
however faulty-if written shortly after the sitting, will often be found
to contain some clues to the trick operations of the medium, which may
be entirely absent from the later a.ccount. An instance of this was
furnished by one of the reports printed in the Journal of the S.P.R.
for June, 1886. The report was one sent to our Society by three of
our Corresponding Members in St. Petersburg. It appears to have been
condensed in a German magazine, N~ Spiritualistische BliUter, the
CI principal occurrences" only being mentioned; and a. translation of
this condensed account is given in Light, September 25, 1886. From
this later version of the seance a series of incidents which indicate, as I
think, how the chief trick was performed, are entirely omitted; and
writing, which according to the original report is described as having
been obtained on an ordinary slate, is described in the later version as
having been obtained between sealed double slates.}
Ceteris paribus, the testimony of two witnesses to the same occur-
rence is rightly regarded as better than the testimony of one. We
must, nevertheless, be cautious in the application of this principle to
the testimony for "psychographic" phenomena. A reference to the
reports which follow will show that wherever separate accounts are
given of the same sitting, the witnesses are never in complete agree-
ment, and they sometimes differ on important points. Thi8 we found
also to be the case where independent accounts were given of the same
sitting with Eglinton (Journal for October and November, 1886). In
the large number of cases, therefore, where the detailed record of a.
sitting has been made by one only of two or more witnesses, and the
record thus made has been every word of it endorsed by the other
witness or witnesses, we have another proof of that plasticity of
memory to which I have drawn attention. It must be concluded that
in the majority, if not all, of these cases, some of the remembrances,
whether true or false, of the later co-signatories have become trans-
formed to fit the remembrances of the recorder, and this, perhaps, in
most instances, by the mere reading of the record. It is of course
not easy to obtain accounts which shall be absolutely independent, since
1 See Supplement to the Journal for December, 1886, p. 516.
izedbyGoogle
400 TM P088ibilitia of Mal-Ob8ervatinn, Icc.
this requires that no communication of any kind connected with the
phenomena should pass between the witnesses after the commencement
of the sdance until the reports have been written, and probably only
an approximation to this absolute independence has been attained
where separate accounts have been given of the same sitting with Mr.
Da.vey.
It may occur to some ingenious readers of the reports which follow
and the notes given in the Appendix, that owing to illusions of percep-
tion and memory, Mr. Davey and myself 1 have given misdescriptions
of what really happened at the sdanees, that the other witnesses are
right and we are wrong. It is unnecessary to explain the "psychical"
conditions under which Mr. Davey and myself were sitting, so different
from those of the other sitters; I may refer such readers to the opinion
of persons versed in conjuring tricks, and familiar with the misdescrip-
tions given of them by the uninitiated·-a.nd especially to the opinion of
Mr. Angelo J. Lewis (p. 485). I repeat that the "psychographic"
phenomena. described in the following records are conjuring, and only
conjuring, performances, and I may add that I was very careful myself,
in the sdanoes where I was present, to take the part of an ordinary
sitter, and to avoid doing anything which would a.ssist Mr. Davey in
the smallest degree. Indeed, Mr. Davey would have preferred my
absence, as part of the task which I had set myself was to watch Mr.
Davey's movements at the critical moments, in order that I might give
my independent testimony concerning the mod~ of production of the
phenomena.
These phenomena, as described, may well seem marvellous enough
to demand the hypothesis of occult agency: writing between a
conjurer's own slates in a way quite inexplicable to the oonjurer,-
writing upon slates locked and carefully guarded by the witnesses,-
writing upon single slates held by the witnesses firmly against the under
surface of the table,-writing upon slates held by the witnesses above
the table,-&Dswers to questions written secretly in locked slates,-
correct quotations appearing on guarded slates from books chosen by
the witnesses at random, and sometimes mentally, the books not
touched by the "medium,"-writing in different colours, mentally
chosen by the witnessell, covering the whole side of one of their own
slates,-messages in languages unknown to the" medium," including a
menage in German for which only a mental request had been made,
and 8. letter in Japanese in 8. double-slate locked and sealed by the
witne88,-the date of a coin placed by the witneSB in a sealed envelope
correctly written in a locked slate upon the table, the envelope re-
1 Mr. Davey agreed with my notes except where I have stated to the
contrary.
Digitized by Coogle
I nt'l'Od'UCtion. 401
maining intact,-a word written between slates screwed together and
also corded and sealed together, the word being chosen by the witness
after the slates were fastened by himself, &c., &C. And yet, though
" autographic" fragments of pencil were" heard" weaving mysterious
messages between and under and over slates, and fragments of chalk
were seen moving about under a tumbler placed above the tablEl in full
view,-none of the sitters witnessed that best phenomenon, Mr. DUIVtJ'!/
writing.
A few words remain to be said as to the principle which has been
followed in adding or withholding notes explanatory of the modi
operandi adopted by Mr. Davey.
The object of the notes given in the Appendix is not to explain
the tricks, though explanations of some of the incidents are given or
suggested. To explain the tricks would in itself be of little advantage
to the investigator of the "physical phenomena" of mediums, since
many methods of producing "psychography" may exist besides those
which Mr. Davey has employed; and were all of those in present use
to be made public property, others would doubtless be invented, and
accidental opportunities for producing successful illusions would still
arise. I may point out moreover,-and this is a consideration
frequently overlooked-that it is a great mistake to suppose that
specific verbal explanations, in as far as these are possible, of all the
methods practised by "mediums," would effectua.l1y check deception
even by those very methods; there are tricks that can be explained to
a witness, and then performed in his presence without his detecting
them, and while he imagines himself to be fully on his guard against
them.1 It would be a still greater mistake to suppose that explana.-
tions of the methods in use would convince those who have testified
from personal experience to the genuineness of the "psychography" of
Eglinton, Slade, &c., that such methods were used for the production of
the phenomena which they witnessed. They will scarcely be likely to
remernher the occurrence of events which they perhaps never observed
at all, or observed only partially and erroneously; which, whether
correctly or incorrectly observed, they have afterwards continually
misdescribed or completely forgotten; and which, in many cases, would
be distinctly excluded by the acceptance of their testimony as it
stands. Further, it must be said,-and this will become obvious to the
careful student of the reports-that no description of particular
movements or peculiar apparatus would suffice as an exhaustive
explanation of the performances recorded; the best part of the
trickery is in truth indescribable, it is as fluent and uncertain as the
1 I have actu&lly seen this don..
Digitized by (i(j)()gle
402 The P088ibilities of Mal-Observation, I:c.
shifting attention of the witnesses, and varies with the variations of
their temporarily dominant expectations and emotions.
The object of the notes, then, is to show to investigators the kind
and degree of mistakes which may be made by educated and intelli-
gent witnesses in recording their impression of a performance the main
lines of which are planned with the deliberate intention of deceiving
them, but few, if any, of the details of which can be described as
absolutely fixed.
The notes, as given, might suggest to the ordinary reader some
unfounded conclusions. They seem in some cases to indicate so much
carelessneaa on the part of the sitters, to open out such easy
poaaibilities of trick for the conjurer, that the reader may fancy that
the witnesses were unusually gullible, and that Mr. Davey had in
reality little to do. To this the supporters of Eglinton may probably
add that an " experienced Spiritualist" would have run no risk of being
similarly deceived. These conclusions, I have no doubt, would be
mistaken. In the first place, the witnesses would certainly not have
been objected to before actual trial as of less than average competence;
nor do I think that &8 a matter of fact they have shown leas than
average acumen or care. They may be taken, too, as a fairly repre-
sentative group, including, as they do, succeaaful men of business, men
of ordinary university training, electrical engineers, members of the
legal and educational professions, &c.; they include one profeasional
conjurer, and others-aa Mr. Padshah and Mias Symons-who had
given some previous attention, as their accounts may sufficiently show,
to the risks of mal-obaervation on such occasions as these. Of the great
treachery of memory, indeed, the majority of Mr. Davey's sitters have
been unaware, but of this the witneases of other "slate-writing" per-
fonnances have, unquestionably, been at least equally unaware. In
supportof this it is enough again to remind the reader that in all the
cases where separate accounts, more or less independent, of the same
sitting were given by the witneaaes of Eglinton's _nees recorded in the
JOUNw.l of the Society for Psychical Research for June, 1886, a
comparison I of the accounts elicits the fact that the witnesses exhibited
forms of memory-illusion precisely parallel to some of those which
have been exhibited by the witnesses of Mr. Davey's performances.
And be it observed that mistakes of the kind illustrated in the
notes are not, prior to special study, any proof of obtuseneas or
particular deficiency of memory. Mr. Davey himself, before he had
studied the "slate-writing" forms of conjuring, was a decided offender
in this respect (see Journal of the S.P.R. for October and November,
1 See the criticism of the evidence in the Jovmal for October and
Nov.mber,l886.
Digitized by Coogle
Introduction.
1886); and I have pointed out my own shortcomings and those of my
colleagues with, I hope, an unsparing hand (see Supplement to the
December number of the J~. I do not, in point of fact, think
that this unpreparedneBS and inobservancy of mind, in the presence
of a conjurer, is a thing of which anyone who is not familiar with the
tricks already need be ashamed. I have a strong suspicion-founded
by this time on a pretty wide experience-that those of my readers
who may be most disposed to deride the simplicity of the witnesses
now to be cited,would themselves have come out of the ordeal no better
than Mr. &it, and not so well as Mr. PMlshah.
But, although mankind-as I believe-a.re thus inattentive and
careleBS and forgetful beyond their own common notion of themselves,
it must not be supposed that it is an easy task to play upon their
inattention and forgetfulness as Mr. Davey has done. On the contrary
- without making any claim for him of inimitable skill-it must be
pointed out that his achievements, simple as they may seem, and by
reason of their very simplicity, belong not to a low but to a high claBS
of conjuring performance. For the psychologist, and quite apart from
the question of effect producible on large audiences, there may be said
to be three claBSes of conjuring of progressively deeper interest. Least
interesting to the psychologist are the effects which depend on
machinery or apparatus, great as the mechanical skill involved may be.
More interesting are those which depend on pure prestidigitation, on an
assured competence to perform some given action so swiftly and
cunningly that the spectator will fail to see it. But higher still in
psychological interest comes a claBS of conjuring performances which
consist not 80 much in eluding the.perceptions of the witneBSe8 by the
speed and dexterity of one's own movements, as in gently inducing
them, by means different in each case, to bewilder and entrap them-
selves. The conjurer here wins as by the adroitness of a clever thief,
who poses for the nonce as a detective, persuasively points out the most
subtle and efficient precautions against robbery, and all the while is
emptying your pockets. In this last claBS of performance, the better
the conjuring is, the less of it is needed; and its greatest triumph is
when the spectator's mind has been brought into such a state that he-
so to say--does his conjuring for himself, and stands astounded at his
own interpretation of some entirely obvious phenomenon. Thus Mr.
Padshah, in one of the most instructive of the incidents below to be
recorded, turned the conjurer's very scrawl into a crowning success,
and read Book8 into BorYrZU.
Once more; if it be claimed in any quarter that "experienced
Spiritualists" would have been able to detect Mr. Davey'S methods
more easily than the witnesses actually adduceQ, I trust that I may be
allowed to say, without giving offence, that to my mind the prn~tiQD
Digitized by 0 Ole
D .. O
J
4040 The P088ibilitiu of Mal-Ob8ervatinn, I:c.
is strongly the other way. I have already explained that the power of
detecting conjuring tricks is not a test of general capacity, but rather
a result of having studied simila.r conjuring tricks beforehand. The
"experience" involved in much ance-going is a.ssuredly not an
experience that makes in this direction; the mental attitude induced is
the very wo~t possible for the discovery of trickery, and it has been
on "experienced Spiritualists" that those mediuma have thriven whom
mere ignorant outsiders have afterwards caught in palpable fraud. I
do not, of course, mean that no "experienced Spiritualist" has ever
caught a rogue out; but such exhibitions, for instance, a.s those of
Haxby and Firman (se&- P, ocee~~), certa.inly
show that it is not to the circles of devout believers that we are to look
for detection of even the grossest and most tra.nsparent imposture.
But I am anxious not to be supposed to a.ssert that "experienced
Spiritualists" are less acute than other men. I must yet again
emphasise the fact that the difference depends on previous attitude of
mind; and there is plenty of evidence to show how many minds at
how many seances, have been in much the sa.me condition a.s Mr.
Pa.dshah's when he recognised the convincing word BOO'f'ZU. I will
cite one instance only, which exemplifies the influence of the
Spiritualistic bia.s even beyond the sphere of professed mediums. It
is a letter written by perhaps the most experienced of a.ll Spiritualists,
endorsing an opinion held by a man than whom none more eminent,
none more widely or justly respected, has ever avowed adherence to a
belief in Spiritualism. "M.A. (Oxon.)" wrote as follows to The
Medium and D41Jbrea/r, of August 24th, 1877:-
I am glad to lee that Hr. Alfred Wallace agrees, after leeing Lynn's
medium, with th8lubatance of my letter in your iuue of July 6th. Given
mediumahip and lhamelellnell enough so to pl'Oltitute it, and conjuring can,
DO doubt, be made lufficiently bewildering. It iI meer nonaenae to treat
luch perfonnancea lUI MlUlkelyne'l, Lynn'l, and some that have been show11
at the Cryatal Palace, lUI " common conjuring." Mr. Wallace positively aays,
" If you think it iI all juggling, point out exactly where the di1t'erence Ii.-
between it and mediumiatic phenomena." (See Proceeding., Part X, p. 66
and note.)
Few readers indeed will question the proved sagacity, the absolute
straightforwardness, of the illustrious naturalist whose statement is
quoted by "M. A. (Oxon.)" Still fewer perhaps will think: that,
without a strong mental predisposition, the author of E88a1lB on Natural
Selection would have committed himself to the view that unembodied
spirits ran Dr. Lynn's entertainment at the Westminster Aquarium.
For myself, I can but repeat his challenge in another sense, and say-
let the experienced Spiritualist "point out exactly where the difference
lies between 'Mr. Da.vey's perfol"lIl&noes' and mediumistic phenomena."
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 405
EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION.
By S. J. DA.VEY.
For some time past 1 have practised "slate-writing," and have given
up much leisure time to the subject, with a view to discovering how far
ordinary witnesses can be deceived by conjuring performances. I have
received reports of my experiments from various persons, and these I
subjoin, with comments, in some cases, as to lapses of observation or
memory on the part of the witnesses. Lest there should be any mis-
understanding I must explain what induced me to take up the subject,
and the general conclusions to which 1 have been led.
Readers of the Jowrnal of the S.P.R. are aware that 1 sent reports
of sittings with Eglinton to our Society in 1884, and that 1 had pre-
viously sent reports of the same sittings to the periodical Light. I do
not now attribute any value to these reports as proving the reality
of so-called "psychography," for reasons which will appear in the
sequel.
My chief interest in Spiritualism generally was awakened by an
experience of my own, which was as follows :-In 1883, owing to a
serious lung complaint, I spent several months at a Continental health
resort. During this visit, one of my companions died under circum-
stances of an unusually distressing character; and another friend and
myself had been in frequent attendance upon him during his last ill-
ness. His body was subsequently dissected, in the presence of my
other companion, Mr. O. Three weeks after this I was startled one
night by seeing what appeared to be the face and form of my deceased
friend under circumstances that greatly surprised me, and the next day,
whilst visiting Mr. C., who lodged in the same hotel as myself, he
informed me that he had that night experienced a remarkably vivid
dream in which he had seen our deceased friend. 1 then for the first
time related to Mr. C. what had happened to myself.l
On my return to England I began to devote some attention to the
study of alleged psychical phenomena, and I perused several works
relating to the subject, including Zollner's Tronscendemal Phtgllicl,
Psychic FO'1'ce, by Professor Crookes, Miracles and Mod_ Spiritualism,
by Alfred Russel Wallace, The Debatohle Land, by Robert Dale Owen,
Psychography, The Report ofthe Dialectical Society, &c., and 1 formed
a circle of friends for the investigation of the alleged phenomena.
1 I have since had BOrne correspondence with Mr. C., who does not look
upon the incident as anything more than a dream coinc;idence. At the time, I
attached particular significance to my own experience, as my friend, when alive,
had diacnsaed the question of Spiritualiam with me.
Digitized by Coogle
406 The POBBibilitia of Mal-Ob8ervation, J:c.
During my first experiments I found myself affected a good deal by
involuntary movements which I could not then account for, though I
now have little doubt they were caused simply by nervous excite-
ment; however, nothing of any significance happened, and it was at
this stage of my investigation that I made the acquaintance of
Eglinton, of whose ao-called "psychography" I had heard. At the
conclusion of my first seance with Eglinton, which took place in June,
1884, I could not account for the phenomena except on the
Spiritualistic hypothesis, and I was led to believe, from the "communi-
cations" which I then received, that I possessed psychic powers. My
second seance with Eglinton, on October 8th, 1884, waa a failure, bnt
my third, on October 9th, 1884, waa a SUCCeB8. I waa somewhat excited
at these results, and even contemplated making a collection of cases
/ to convince the unbelieving world. On October 9th, 1884, the sup-
posed invisibles informed me that I had " developed my own powers
to an appreciable extent, owing to their former advice." Now, between
my first and third seances I certainly had experienced privately one or
two incidents which I then regarded aa genuine psychical pbenomena,
and I will brieJiy relate one of these experiences.
One afternoon in September, 1884, I took two slates and determined
to experiment alone. I held them together with a small pencil grain
between. I was in my library; the slates were taken out of a
private box by myself; I glanced at them and placed them in the
position above described. In the course of some few minutes I lifted
up the slates and examined them, and found the word" Beware" written
in large characters across the under side of the upper slate. My
astonishment at this cannot well be described, as I felt convinced I had
previously thoroughly examined the slates, and I took the first train to
London, and showed them to my friend Mr. X. (see Journal for
October, pp. 435, 436). He agreed with me in saying it was almost
incredible. I then attributed the above, and one or two kindred
phenomena, to the action of an abnormal power proceeding from myself.
It was afterwards proved to me that these experiences were neither
more nor less than simple hoaxes, perpetrated by some of my friends.
In the case of the particular incident which I have described, the
slate had been tampered with during my previous absence from home.
I have no doubt that, not suspecting any interference with my slates,
I bad not thoroughly examined them immediately before sitting, as I
supposed myself to have done. Another incident of a somewhat
ludicrous character may be mentioned here. I had bought a trick
slate, which had been sold to me as an explanation of the process
used by mediums. I thought, however, that this waa scarcely true,
as the trick soomed to be a very palpable one. I had put this
slate away in my drawer with the other slates containing the
Digitized by Coogle
EXperVmental Investigation. 407
writing of Eglinton's supposed spirits. One morning, on going to this
drawer, which I usually kept locked, I found the following words, or
something to the same effect, written across the false surface of the
trick slate: "We object to your learning trickery." I then compared
this writing with some on Eglinton's slates, and found it apparently
identical. I was naturally somewhat amazed, and I did not then for a
moment suspect that my friends were hoaxing me, and that the above
sentence had been written in careful imitation of the writing on
Eglinton's slates. Also, during seances held privately, I con-
tinued to be frequently seized by spasmodic movements when I
believed "uncanny" manifestations were about to take place.
.As a conjurer, I have been since amused sometimes at similar
convulsions in others during my conjuring performances, when
the sitters have supposed that the writing was being produced by
supernatural means; my own s~udderings during these performances
/ '
being, of course, part of the trick.
I had several other seances with Eglinton after October 9th, 1884,
all of which proved blanks, except one held on January 15th, 1885. One
of my friends who accompanied me to this sitting assured me he had
actually seen Eglinton imitating the sound of writing at the time when
I thought a long communication was being written. I endeavoured to
be more watchful at the two sittings which I had after this, the final
seance being on June 25th, 1885; but at neither of these did any
results occur, although I did not inform Eglinton of the informati4iln I
had received. However, partly in consequence of my friend's convic-
tion that Eglinton's performances were only tricks, I began, after
getting no further results, to apply myself anew to see what could be
produced by conjuring. I then met with an individual who professed
to sell me" secrets," which he gave me to understand he had procured
from an American medium. I also bought one by which words, «c.,
could be made to appear on the flesh after it was rubbed over with
burnt paper. This trick has evidently been exhibited by Eglinton as
a "mediumistic phenomenon" (See 'Twixt Two Worlds, pp. 52, 54).
I soon made use of the knowledge thus acquired by performing
before friends and acquaintances, and I found that even at that
early stage of my practice many of them could be deceived as to
my real modus operandi. Eglinton has attempted to give particular
validity to the accounts of my successful seances with him in 1884,
claiming my testimony as that of one who had" specially studied and
practised the art of simulating the slate-writing phenomena under
conjurers' conditions" (Light, July 31st, 1886). I have already pointed
out elsewhere that I was not an expert in 1884, when I wrote the
reports in question, which Eglinton describes as "among the most
favourable and decisive which have appeared." The extent of my
izedbyGoogle
408 The PoBBibilities 01 Mal-Observation, tl:c.
knowledge on this subject at that time will be found described by
myself in Light, August 21st, 1886, as follows:-
I went to Mr. Eglinton on June 30th, 1884, and I do not remember
ever having previously performed a single conjuring trick &I applied to slate-
writing, and also the question of conjuring in any other form had in no way
interested me. Previously to my second ~ce, October 9th, 1884, I made
lOme three or four attempts with a thimble, pencil, and a slate held under
the table, and with a trick alate made of card-board, with a movable flap and
blotting-paper.
I noticed that many persons made statements concerning my per-
formances, as to the conditions of the production of the writing,
which were just as emphatic as I made in my own reports about
Eglinton, and I also noticed that nearly all these statements were
entirely wrong. Even when I sometimes revealed the fact that I was
merely a conjurer, the reply which I frequently received was something
of this kind: "Yes,you may say it is conjuring, but it could not have been
done by that means when I did so-and-so" (describing a supposed test)
"and yet we got the writing all the same." The following extract
from a letter to me is typical of the views taken by several of my
investigators :-
I certainly think your alate-writing quite equal to what we saw at
Nottingham-place [with Eglinton], but till I see how it is done, and it is
thoroughly explained to me, I cannot give up my belief that you yourself
employ more than Bleight of hand for your results. You see I am a St.
Thomas.
As I went on I was gradua.lly forced to the conviction that
my own reports about Eglinton were just as unreliable as these
statements about myself, although I was not then aware of the
serious discrepancies between them which Mr. Hodgson has lately
pointed out in the J01JA"1lIJJ, (October and November, 1886).1 In
1 A critic, .. C. C. M.," says in LigAt, January 22nd, 1887 :_CC Of coune in
very many cases the modw operandi could and would be explained, at least
privately to the witnesses, to their complete satisfaction. These would be
really trick cases, as to which the antecedent reports will always have some
evidential defect, discoverable by a careful critique without any presumption at
variance with the distinct and definite statements of the witnesses (except in
the case of witnesses whose veracity, or capacity for ordinary observation, is
questionable), and such, therefore, as would not be adduced in any judicioUl
selection of evidence to prove the genuine phenomena." Now, in a previoua
number of LigAt (August 14th, 1886) Mr. C. C. Massey asserted, concerning
lOme of my testimony to Eglinton's performances, that cc there is no room for
the hypothesis of innocent misdescription, which might afterwards come to be
recognised as such by the witness himself." I believe, nevertheless, that the
performances of Eglinton, which I endeavoured to record, WAre due to trickery
Digitized by ~oo8le
Experimental Investigation. 409
consequence of the change which was taking place in my opinion,
I wrote, on July 30th, 1885, to Mr. Farmer, requesting him for
"private reasons," not to make any reference to myself, eithflr
directly or indirectly, in the work about Eglinton ('TwiJ:e Two
Worlds), which he was then preparing for the press.
From a study of various exposures of slate.-writing mediums, and
other incidents which have heen privately brought to my notice, I
cannot now entertain a doubt that they have frequently practised
deception; and whether it is a fact that they, nevertheless, occasionally
obtain the help of "spiritual" beings, or manifest supernormal powers,
is a question upon which I have good reasons for being now very
sceptical, though I do not of course profess to know how ull the
slate-writing tricks are performed. Indeed, only last month (February,
1887), I was informed of a special nwdus operandi employed by an
American medium, Mrs. Simpson; this method was entirely unknown
to me, nor do I think I should have discovered it myself.
Until recently I had not endeavoured to obtain written reports
from persons who sat with me, and I was desirous of obtaining them
under as nearly as possible the same conditions, as regards the mental
attitude of the sitters, as those obtained by professional mediums for
slate-writing; I did not wish people to know with absolute certaiuty
by my own professions beforehand, that the slate-writing was only con-
juring, though I urged them to treat me as a conjurer, to use tests,
and take precautions against trickery, &c. Few persons would
imagine how difficult it is for ordinary witnesses to accurately record a
"slate-writing" seance, even if they are very careful and quick observers;
and how prone the majority of witnesses are to exaggerate or distort
records of events which they believe to be of an abnormal character.
In consequence of the prominence given in certain quarters to my
name in connection with "slate-writing," I assumed the professional!
name of David Clifford. The desirability of this step may'be illustrated
by the following incident: A short time ago, at a seance, I met a
gentleman who spoke in very disparaging tones of the performances of
a certain amateur conjurer known as Mr. A., and who remarked to the
effect that the statements of Mrs. Sidgwick (Proceedi'tl.{/B, Part X,
on his part, and that my reports, adduced by Mr. Massey in his "judicious
selection of evidence," were vitiated by" innocent misdescription." I think it
not at all unlikely that I was guilty of the amount of misdescription
hypothetically attributed to me by Mr. Hodgson, because precisely similar
misdescriptions have been given of my own performances by witn_ whose
intelligence and acumen are certainly not inferior to miue, and whose veracity
is unquestionable.
1 By the use of this term I do not mean to imply that I have ever demanded
any fee for a sllance; I have never accepted any recompense whatsoe)'fll'. I
Digitized by ~008 e
410 The Po88ibilities of MaL-Observation; etc.
pp. 67-70) as to this conjurer's powers did not in the least explain the
subject of "psychography." At the conclusion of my performance
this same gentleman (who knew me only under the name of Clifford)
declared in my presence, and in that of his co-investigators, that the
experiments he had just witnessed were more conclusive as to the
existence of supernormal phenomena than those he had witnessed in
the presence of a well-known professional medium. Had he then
known I was Mr. A., the" amateur conjurer," I do not think he would
have shown such enthusiasm as regards the" incomparable" nature of
my phenomena.
In some of the reports which I received I was described as Mr. _0\..,
and in several others as Mr. Clifford; in these ca.ses I have substi-
tuted my real name, for the sake of clearness.
I think it would be no easy task to expose an expert in slate-
writing, provided he had made up his mind not to give his investigators
the chance of doing so. A practised conjurer in this particular branch
of his profession soon acquires a sufficiently keen insight into character
to know when there is no risk of detection. If the performer has any
reason to think that any part of his trick will be seen, he can take
refuge in a blank seance; nor would it generally be the case that if
the trick were partly performed the observance of strict conditions by
the sitter would result not merely in failure, but in exposure, as Mr.
Massey seems to suggest. (Proceedings, Part X, pp. 93, 94.) I have,
several times, had to deal with this danger, and have always been success-
ful.l Of course, ca.ses will arise when, if the right steps are taken by the
sitter, exposure will result; and this is precisely what has happened on
more than one occasion, with, for example, Dr. Sla.de. There is one
danger to which I think a conjurer is liable, unless he is very careful, viz.,
to give too little credit to the shrewdness of a sitter, just as he probably
often gives too much. The remedy obviously would be to increase the
number of entirely blank seances. If I were forced to giye blank
seances to persons of whose keenness I was afraid, I should, of course,
frequently give blank seances to others whom I had no reason to fear,
and with whom I could produce marvellous phenomena whenever I liked.
I have found, moreover, that a blank sitting occa.sionally, with an in-
vestigator who at other times gets good results, .makes the phenomena
look more mysterious than ever, and forms an additional reason in his
mind for not attributing the phenomena to conjuring. A plan, I under·
stand, that is very frequently adopted by a well-known American
medium, is to simulate sometimes, in a very marked manner, the ap-
I Since the above was written, an incident has occurred which some of my
readers will probably think an exception; it happened at a sitting with Mr.
Dodds, anti I will refer to it in my comments upon his report.
Digitized by Coogle
ExpeM!lnental I nVeJltigation. 411
pearance of trickery in his slate-writing. Not unfrequentlyone of his
investigators falls into the trap, observes what he supposes is a clear
case of deception, and demands an instant exposure of the slate.
The medium then protests against the "unwarrantable suspicion," and
finally reveals the slate, to the chagrin of his would-be exposer, who of
course finds it perfectly clean. Then, by a subtle process, the medium
does write on the slate, to the subsequent amazement of his witness.
From the account of a recent exposure by a lady Spiritualist in America,
who detected Slade in the very act of writing, I understand that the
speed with which he wrote on a slate held under the table greatly
astonished the observer. I have good authority for belieTing that
the account is to be relied upon. (See New York Sunday Times, July
5th, 1885.)
I may now briefly refer to the argument that" psychography" must
be of an abnormal (or supernormal) character, since conjurers have been
unable to explain the phenomena. My own opinion, as that of an
amateur conjurer, has been claimed in its favour, but I have already
pointed out that this is only a misrepresentation of the facts of the
case, and that I was a deficient observer, and an ignoramus as regards
conjuring, when I wrote the reports favourable to Eglinton. At the
same time, I understand that certain conjurers have professed their
inability to explain the slate-writing of some mediums by conjuring.
But, after my own experiences, I am not at all surprised at this. That
the testimony of a specially skilled conjurer in tit-is particular branch is
of value I do not deny, yet at the same time it does not, I think,
follow that he must therefore know all the secrets, such as one with
more experience might have acquired. If he is very confident of his
own ability to find out any trick and cannot explain the fTl()(],us operandi
of the mediulll, he may possibly think it inexplicable by conjuring;
and the remarks made by Mrs. Sidgwick at the close of her article in
the Journal of the S.P.R. for December are particularly suitable to a case
of this kind. A very good instance of this has come under my notice.
When Eglinton was in Calcutta, Mr. Harry Kellar, a professional I
conjurer, requested the " opportunity of participating in a. seance, with
a view of giving an unbiassed opinion as to whether," in his "capacity
of a professional prestidigitateur," he could" give a natural explanation
of effects said to be produced by spiritual aid." Eglinton eventually
met Mr. Kellar, and the result was that Mr. Kellar came away utterly
unable to explain by any natural means the phenomena that he
witnessed; and he said that the writing on the slate, "if my senses are
to be relied on, was in no way the result of trickery or sleight of hand."
This occurred early in 1882, and Mr. Kellar's opinion still continues to
be quoted in favour of the genuineness of Eglinton's phenomena. Yet
I am not aware that Mr. Kellar, before sitting with Eglinton, had any
Digi
412 The Possibilities of Mal-Observation, Icc.
special knowledge of the different methods of producing slate-writing
by conjuring, and I have little doubt, after reading his account of a
sitting in 1882, quoted in Light, October 16th, 1886, p. 481, that he
was ignorant of at least some of these methods. But this does not seem
to be my own view only; it seems to be that of Mr. Kellar himself,
who since then has apparently turned his attention to slate-'Nl"iting,
and has changed his former opinion about the genuineness of the
phenomena; he now professes to be able to "duplicate any perform-
ance given by mediums of whatever nature after he has seen it done
three times." This was mentioned to me by an American gentlema.n
whom I met recently, but I have also seen a notice of it in Light for
March 28th, 1885, p. 147, from which I have taken the above extract;
yet Mr. Kellar's former opinion, given, as I presume, when he was not
a special expert in slate-writing, is continually quoted by Spiritualists,
just as my own opinion, given when I was absolutely incompetent and
knew next to nothing about conjuring in any form whatever, has been
quoted as the opinion of a specially qualified conjurer.
I do not myself place much value upon the opinion of conjurers who
have not previously become thoroughly versed in the ways of deceiving
sitters in slate-writing; not only because of this incident in which
perhaps Mr. Kellar's over-confidence in his own powers of detection
led him into a mistake, although he has after long experience publicly
proclaimed his disbelief in "mediumistic" phenomena, but also because
I haye myself been able to deceive a gentleman accomplished in general
conjuring.
On August 26th, 1886, I received a letter from a well-known pnr
fessional conjurer, whose programme includes several exposes of alleged
spiritualistic frauds. In his letter to me this gentleman 1 informed me
that he had heard a great deal about my slate-writing, and was most
anxious to witness the phenomena, as he had had seances with a well-
known professional medium; and he politely requested an interview
with me. He was a stranger to me personally, but I at once offered to
give him a soonce, which was arranged for September 13th, 1886. At
the conclusion of the seance 2 he gave me his testimony as follt)ws:-
September 13th, 1886.
I can see no explanation by trickery of the experiments in slate-writing I
have seen performed by Mr. Davey this evening.
(Signed)....- - -
1 I have not here disclosed his name, as, since I have informed him of my
conjuring powers, he has desired me net to do so. The names and addres8es
of all the writers of statements and reports are in the hands of the Hon. Secre-
tary of the S.P.R.
2 I had a curious experience with this gentleman. I asked him to think of
a number. A number which I thought would be right was then, without his
knowledge, marked on the slate by my process. I thenr4l'ked lJim to tell me
ized byLIoogle
Experimental Investigation. 413
Some days afterwards he wrote to me as follows :-
September24th, 1886.
It gives me much pleasure to add my testimony to that of many others
you have, and I certainly can state that in some mysterious manner
which to me seemed quite inexplicable, writing appeared on slates which I
had purchased myself, which had been previously thoroughly wasluJd,
and while they were held together apparently very tightly. And it was
specially remarkable that the writing was in the very colour I asked for.
(Signed)'---
Another professional conjurer was shown my locked slate by an
investigator, the writing having been allowed to remain, and on hearing
the account of the witness, he offered an explanation, which was, how-
ever, entirely wrong; I instance h~s opinion merely for the sake of
pointing out that his great knowledge of conjuring in general did not
enable him to suggest an explanation which would I think have occur-
red to him if he had been skilled in the various special methods that
may be used by conjurers in connection with slate-writing.
It has sometimes happened that an inv~tigator, who knew before-
hand that my performances were conjuring, has thought he had
obtained a clue to my methods, but in nearly every case where I have
suspected this, I think his discovery has only tended to perplex him
more than ever. Whilst visiting Professor Henry Sidgwick at
Cambridge some few months ago, I gave both Professor Sidgwick and
Mrs. Sidgwick two seances for slate-writing. Amongst other
phenomena, I obtained an answer on my locked slate, written under-
neath the question Professor Sidgwick had written. I had requested
Professor Sidgwick to keep special charge of the slate. He afterwards
concluded I had obtained some means of opening and writing on it,
and he informed me as to when and how he thought I had done this.
It is interesting to note that I did not in any way perform the trick in
the manner Professor Sidgwick surmised, as I have since proved to
him; he has informed me that my explanation was "completely
unexpected," and he says:-
I was so satisfied with my own conjecture (difficult as it was for me to
imagine it actuallyrealised) that the method you actually used never occurred
to me-nor anything at all like it.
the number he had thought of. He said 98. I lifted up the slate and showed
him the figures 98 that had been written before he had spoken. This may of
course have been merely an odd coincidence, but the fact that I have had
several somewhat similar experiences with other investigators led me to think
that there might be something of the nature of thought-reading in it. I
endeavoured to arrange some further experiments with Mr. --, but his many
engagements, and afterwards my serious illness, prevented our meeting
again.
Digi
414 The Possibilities of MaJ,-Observation, J:c.
To those of my readers who are specially interested in the sul:~ect.
I may recommend a book entitled The Bottom Facts of SpiritUal1Ym,1
by Mr. John W. Truesdell, who seems to have had considerable
experience in slate-writing. He gives an interesting account in
Chapter XVI. of a slate-writing seance recorded by Mr. L. W. Chu:e, of
Cleveland, Ohio, and I have no doubt, after my own experiences as a
producer of slate-writing, that Mr. Truesdell's subsequent versiolll of
the matter is the true one. In the Daily Cowrier of Syracuse, Ne...
York, December 7th, 1872, Mr. L. W. Chase made the following
statements :-
The medium (Mr. John W. Trueadell) then took up a common a1&te,
and, after carefully washing oft" either side, placed it fiat upon the table,
with a bit of pencil, about the size of a pea, underneath. We then joined
hands, and after the lapse of about ten minutes, under the full glare of
gas-light, we could distinctly see the slate undulate, and hear the communi-
cation that was being written, a copy of which I herewith append :-My dear
Brother,-You strive in vain to unlock the hidden mysteries of the future.
No mortal has faculties to comprehend infinity.-CBARLOrl'E.
The above lines were not only characteristic of my beloved sister while
in the form, but the handwriting 80 closely resembled hers that, to my mind,
there cannot be a shadow of doubt as to its identity.
In reference to a further event, Mr. L. W. Chase adds :-
A short communication from my mother (and in her own handwriting)
was found plainly written.
I have quoted the above extracts since they serve to show how a
person may be deceived in the matter of spirit identity; for Mr. John W.
Truesdell, at the close of Chapter XVI., frankly informs his readers
that he himself wrote the meBB&ges, and describes the methods he
employed. The resemblance between the handwritings was, I presume,
imaginary.
The fact that "messages" occasionally contain private family
details, &c., is often quoted as a proof of the Spiritualistic theory in
connection with slate-writing, but many perSODB would be surprised to
find how frequently a slate-writing conjurer may become possessed of
apparently private matters in connection with his investigators, and they
should also not forget that peculiar chance coincidences sometimes occur.
It is not very long since I met a gentleman who was a perfect stranger
to me personally, and I depicted scenes to him that I knew had taken
place many years ago, with an accuracy that utterly bewildered him, and
I went into such private details of his family matters as convinced him
I had a strange insight into his past life. Yet this was merely due to a
chance coincidence. Some months previously these and other details
1 Published by Carleton and Co., New York.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 415
had been incidentally mentioned to me by a person well acquainted
with his history, and although he was not a public character, his name,
in connection with the events of which I bad heard, became somehow
fixed in my memory. Nor is this the only experience I have had of a
somewhat similar nature.
Tben it must be borne in mind that when witnesses become
deeply impressed with the wonder of the performance, they not un-
frequently give way to a little natural excitement, and whilst they
have laboured under the excitement I have picked up items of informa-
tion from the witnesses themselves, which when reproduced by me at
future seances have been declared" wonderful tests."
During the past few months I have given seances to many total
strangers who have applied to me for sittings. In some cases I have
given these performances away from my own residence, and I have
requested the investigators to use all possible caution to guard against
any trickery, leaving them, howeVf~r, to make their own suppositions
concerning the mode of production of the phenomena. Latterly I have
stipulated that the sitters should write out reports as soon as possible
afterwards; and upon receiving these reports I have informed them
without delay that the phenomena were only conjuring. Formerly in
some cases I had given the sittings over and over again to the same
persons, with an occasional blank to stimulate their curiosity; neverthe-
less they never detected the modU8 operandi.
I shall now give nearly 1 all the accounts that I have received, but
before doing so I wish my readers to be clearly aware that the writing
performances described in the following records were due to my own
unaided powers as a "slate-writing" conjurer. Two years ago I
should have questioned the power of a conjurer to produce such records
from ordinary witnesses as those which I now append, and that others
shared my doubt in this respect is, I think, apparent from the follow-
ing Editorial Note in Light, September 4th, 1886.
R he [Mr. Davey], or any other conjurer, can produce the a~earance
of the conditions which he seemed to observe with Mr. Eglinton, and the
writing under such a~arent conditions, BO as to induce an inexperienced
1 The only reports which I have not quoted are two by Mrs. Sidgwick, one
by Mr. Hodgson, and three others. These last three resembled the majority of
those which I have quoted; two of the writers desired me not to print their
reports at all; the third desired me not to print his report unless it was a correct
account of what occurred at the sitting. Mrs. Sidgwick was not only aware
that I was a conjurer, but I had told her a good deal about my tricks before my
first seance with her. Mr. Hodgson was also aware that I was a conjurer, and
had some knowledge beforehand of my modus operandi; his report was written
chiefly for comparison with an account promised by the gentleman to whom I
have referredon pp. 409-10 as having exhibited such enthusiasm, but who, unfor-
tunately, notwithsiia.nding my repeated reqnests, has never sentme aJll'reIlO.Qlr
Digitized by ~OUOle
416 The Possibilities of Mal-Observation, tl:c.
witnesa to write such a report aa thOle he wrote himself, it will be time
enough to talk of mal-observation aa a poBIIible explanation.
I shall begin by quoting a few brief statements of a general kind
merely in illustration of the impressions left upon some of those from
whom I did not exact a detailed report. V
Statemetlt of MR. A. PODIIORB.
J1dy, 1886.
A few weeks ago Mr. D. gave me a &nee, and to the best of my
recollection the following waa the result. Mr. D. gave me an ordinary
school slate, which I held at one end, he at the other, with our left hands;
he then produced a double slate, hinged and locked. Without removing my
left hand I unlocked the slate, and at Mr. D.'s direction, placed three
small pieces of chalk-red, green, and grey-inside; I then relocked the
slate, placed the key in my pocket, and the slate on the table in such a
position that I could eaaily watch both the slate in my left hand, and the
other on the table. After some few minutes, during which, to the best of
my belief, I waa attentively regarding both slates, Mr. D. whisked the first
away, and showed me on the reverse a message written to myself. Almost
immediately afterwards he aaked me to unlock the second slate, and on
doing so I found to my intense aatonishment, another meBBage written on
both the inBldes of the slate-the lines in alternate colours, and the chalks
apparently much worn by usage.
My brother 1 tells me that there waa an interval of some two or three
minutes during which my attention waa called away, but I can only believe
it on his word.
AuSTIN PODIIORB.
Btaf.emetlt of MRs. JOHNSON.
My sisters and I being most interested in the subject of slate-writing and
anxious to see something of it, Mr. Davey kindly arranged a meeting at his
house. We sat at an ordinary table in a well-lighted room, and writing was
quickly produced on the inner surface of one of two slates held firmly
togethel', once by Mr. Davey and myself, at other tinles by my sistenand Mr.
Davey j at tint just under the edge of the table, then above, and afterwards on
one of my sister's shoulden. This waa the more wonderful aa we had purchased
the slates on our way from the station. Of course between the slates were
placed three points of different coloured chalks, afU:r 'WhiMs Mr. Daveyaaked
us in which colour the writing should appear, and itdid so in the colour we
elected, the slate being covered with writing. Weare all quite certain that
the slates were never out of the hands of one or other of us, and we are
totally unable to account for the slate-writing.
M. JOHNSON.
[September,1886.]
1 Mr. Frank Podmore had been previously informed by me as to the details
of the particular methods which I intended to employ in the seance dOACribed
above.-S.J.D.
S These words were added by Mrs. Johnson later.-s. J. D.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 417
Statement of MR. SCOBELL.
Ncnember 25th, 1886.
DEAR Sm,-
I had the pleasure of attending a .reance given by you Bome few
months ago, and beg to relate what took place to the beBt of my recollection.
Firat, y~u produced a framed Blate which folded, and upon which there
was a patent lock. You opened the Blate, cleaned it perfectly free from
writing, put two or three piecea of crayon or pencil therein, locked it up, and
placed the key in the handB of one of my daughtera, who WaB present. The
slate WaB laid on the table, and the banda of all of us were placed on and
around it. You then told us to think of some subject upon which we should
like a few lines, and to say the colour in which we should like them to appear.
This was left to one of my daughtera. You then appeared to be invoking
the aid of some unknown person, which appeared to be attended with con-
siderable mental agitation to YOUrielf, and a Blight scratohing WaB heard, and
upon the slate being finally unlocked and opened, two or three linea of writing
appeared therein, and they were upon the subject my daughter had lent her
mind, and in the colour writing desired by us.
The next thing you did WaB to solicit us to take out any volume from your
bookcaae, tum to a page, and fix our special attention on a paBB&ge. This I
did without your seeing the page or paBB&ge. The book WaB banded to you,
and you in a Bhort time told us the right page and right paragraph.
I can only say that my daughtera and myself were perfectly aBtonished
with your performance, and had we been predisposed to believe in
Spiritualism, we should have been convinced in Buch belief through your
seance, aB the whole performance seemed to us a phenomenon incapable of any
explanation and not to be produced by any ordinary natural means.-Youra
faithfully,
R. W. SCOBELL.
Mr. S. Davey, Jun.
Statement of MR. S. ELLIS.
November 29UI, 1886.
Both Mra. Ellis and myself are pleaaed to have an opportunity of testify-
ing to the intense gratification you have afforded ouraelves and friends on
several occaaions, both at our house aB well aa ullder your own roof, by the
psychical phenomena you have exhibited, and we are tlO10 aB much l1.li eVOl"
at a 1088 to arrive at the natural meatl.'J employed, l1.li at the startling results
produced-so aBtonishing that it is almost impossible to believe even the
testimony of two senses. The productions of the "locked slate" fully bear
out the foregoing statement.
S. ELLIS.
Statemeut of MRS. BARREn.
Your wonderful performance on the slate completely
puzzled me. I have not got over it yet. Thinking over it aa much aB e,oer
I can, I am as far off having any idea about it aa at firat. You say you did
Digitized by ();).ogle
418 The P088ibilitie8 oj MaL-Ob8ervation, &c.
the writing, 10 I suppoee you did; but how 7 That is what I want to know.
You gave me a clean slate without a mark or acratch of any kind upon it. I
examined it carefully, I sponged it with water. and at your deaire I locked it
up and kept my eye upon it. When it was unlocked and the alate examined,
I discovered. to my astonishment, that it wall written all over from top to
bottom. I never 100t sight of the locked alate, and I never 100t light of
you; and as far as I could judge, it wall impoaaible for you or anyone
present to have done it ; yet the wonderful fact remains; the aIate wall
perfectly clean when it Wal locked up, and written all over when nnlocked.
This is a mystery, and aI I am unable to look through a wooden oover, I
cannot imagine a clue to it. Perhape lOme of these days you will en·
lighten me.
BtaUment of Mus 8TIOOLPB.
I have much pleuure in recording my recollections of a aeance with Mr.
S. J. Davey. His powers are certainly marvelloua, and while I have not the
very smallest belief m..Spiritualism" or "mediums" of any kind, believing
the things 10 called to be gross deceptiona, I Walamazed at my friend's scientific
.kill. Apparently he hal no appliances. I Wal seated with him at a small
table when he gave me the following altounding evidence of his powers. He
gave into my handa a alate which, when locked, looks like an ordinary box.
This box I opened, waahed the alate, locked it, and took the key ; for lOme
minutes we II\t, he with one hand on mine, his other hand on the table.
Presently a faillt acratching 1I'aI heard. and continued lOme little time; when
it cealed Mr. Davey unlocked the alate, and 10 ! it wu covered with clear.
distinct writing-a letter addreaaed to myself, and stating if I would wait a
little while the writer would go to the Cape and bring me news of my
brother. Then I again walhed the slate; again it wall locked, and again I
kept the key. Mr. Davey then BIked me to take any volume I liked from
the library, to look at a page and remember the number of it. This I did,
and again we II\t aI before. In a few moments the alate wu unlocked, when
on it Wal written, not only the number of the page I had thought of, but
lOme of the worda which were on the self-lI\me page, and these not ordinary
words, but abstruse words, aI the book I selected Wal a learned one. This I
conaidered a mOlt marvellous feat, and utterly incomprehenaible. That the
scientific researches of my friend will lead to mOlt important reaulta I have
no doubt. His aim is to expoee deception, and if this object be attained he
will benefit aociety and thl'OW light on a subject which hal hi'herto been
considered to belong exclusively to the " powers of darkneaa."
E. STIOOLPH.
T would mention that the shelves from which I took the book contained
hundreds of volumes, and Mr. Davey had no idea which I had selected aI he
closed his eyes and went to the extreme end of the room.
E. S.
N owmber 25. 1886.
Proceeding now to more detailed accounts I shan first quote reports
by Mr. J. H. Rait and Mr. HartnaII J. Limmer, of a sitting which I
shan call
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 419
SITTING 1.*
These accounts were written indElpendently, from notes taken during
the sitting. Mr. Limmer had had a successful s~ance with me some
months previously, of which he wrote no account.
1. Report of MR. RAIT.
On Wednesday evening, the 8th September, 1886, at 7.30, I betook my-
self, in answer to a previous invitation, to the residence of Mr. S. J. Davey.
I had brought with me at his request three new common school slates
privately marked by me and of medium size, a box of assorted crayons, and
a book to take notes in. Arrived there I was introduced to Mr. Limmer,
who with Mr. Davey and myself formed the trio in whose presence the
manifestations which I am about to record took place.
At 8.30 p.m. we seated ouraelves as shown in the diagram. Mr. Limmer
BOOKCASE
/
I
LIMMER
a ----,'-
> .L.
~ \
-< I-A-~~--"'
~ ~ MYSELFI
WINDOW
A. This Is where the Slate was held.
sat directly opposite me, while Mr. Davey sat on my left, the gas burner
being directly overhead 80 as to distribute light equally on all surroundings.
Before I begin, however, I will call attention to the following facts.
1. During the whole seance, with but one slight exception, the gas was
burning brightly.
2. The slates used were the 3 already mentioned and a double one of
Mr. Davey's of superior make, with ebony backs and fitted with a lock,
which, after having cleaned it and inserted a small fragment of slate pencil, I
locked, and at his request put it in the pocket of my coat, where it remained
till used. With these slates there could not possibly be any tampering,1
as during the whole seance they never for one moment left the room.
* I have numbered the sittings in the order in which I have quoted them,
and have also lettered the chief events described in each, so that where more
than one account is given of the same sitting, the reader may easily compare
the different descriptions given. The small index numbers refer to notes which
""ill be found in the Appendix, pp. 487·95. f":~ I
izedb~k'g e
420 The Po88ibilitie8 of Mal-Observat-um, &c.
3. While the writing W8II taking place under the table, Mr. Davey',
left hand wu held by Mr. Limmer while hia right with the exception of the
topa of hia 4 fingel'8 wu full in DIy view.
4. The chalka U86d were my own, Wl'Bpped separately in paper, and before
the _nee had never been taken out of the box.t
5. A fact that appean to me moat wonderful ia that the point of the
alate pencil or crayon wu alwaya wom and invariably S formed part of the
lut atroke.
At Mr. Davey'a request I took one of my new alatea, cleaned, wiped it,
and placed a minute fragnllIDt of alate pencil on ita aurface,and held •it under
the table at the comer of the table with my left hand, preaaing it firmly all
A. "'late. B. Surface of Table.
--------
Tbe dott811 IIn811 show that part of the Slate under the Table.
A. Eztremlty held by me. B. Held by navey.
the time. Mr. Limmer held my right on one aide and Mr. Davey'aleft on the
other, while Mr. Davey also aupported the alate under the table with his
right; thua it will be aeen that a chain wu formed by the handa. After
remaining a few aeconda thus.
[a] Mr. Davey: "Are you there 1" No answer.
Mr. D: "Arc you going to give UI any answer thia evening?" A
diatinct ticking sound was here heard and after 3 seconda or so it
ltoPPed and I withdrew the alate; on it wu an imperfect scrawl which no
one could decipher.
[b] Mr. D.: "We will try again; please hold the alate firmly j engsge in
conversation; try and not concentrate the thought. too much on one lubjoct."
Mr. D. : "Are you going to give ua any anawel'8 thia evening or Dot'
Now do try." Thia time the noise of the ticking of a pencil wu moat dis-
tinctly heard u if firmly and deliberately writing. I called Mr. Limmer'l
attention to the fact and he informed me the writing wu diatinctly audible
to him. I withdrew the alate and on it diatinctly written wu Yu.
[e] Mr. D.: .. Will aome one now uk a question i "
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental I 'nve8tigatinno 421
After some thought it occurred to me to ask what o'clock it was at present,
there being no timepiece in the room.
Mr. D.: "Will you kindly tell us what time it is 1" The ticking was
immediately' resumed. I watched Mr.l>avey while seemingly talking to Mr.
Limmer, but could detect nothing suspicious in his movements ; three dis-
tinct ticks were heard and I put the slate on the table and examined it. It
was written in the same indistinct hand, and began with a scrawl, but in the
middle of the sentence I could decipher "nine" plainly. On asking Mr.
Limmer to look at his watch he replied that it wanted a quarter of an hour
to 9.
[d,eJl On putting the question" Will there be a war with Russia 1"
we got the vague reply "PerhapB." In reply to other questions the answers
obtained were" try chalk" (this refers to the difficulty experienced in dis-
tinctly writing on a new slate) and "answer later."
So far nothing striking had occurred beyond very scrawly writing, and
replies which might mean anything; but something better was in store
for us.
[g] I now suggested' a slight va,riation in the experiment, which both Mr.
Limmer and Mr. Davey agreed to. I will mention however that in the
right-handed breast pocket of my coat I had placed a sealed envelope con-
taining some questions of a most impossible nature, and which I had written
en the afternoon of the 7th September, intending to produce them at the
seance with a view to getting them answered ; they being all the time in the
envelopo and their contents unknown to anyone but myself. I determined
therefore to put the question, "What does the right-handed breast pocket
of my coat contain1"
Requested by Mr. Davey to clean and again privately mark my slates, I
did so ; and at his request Mr. Limmer and I chose 3 fragments of chalk,-
pink, green, and blue. These 3 fragments were placed on the surface of one
of the slates. I then placed another slate on the top of this so that the
chalks were between.7 This time the slates were abollll the table; we joined
hands and began talking, the question concerning my cost pocket having
been put. It is important to note that during this experiment both of Mr.
Davey's hands were in view, also that the writing began almost instan-
taneously on joining hands. Mr. Davey became very agitated, his hands
slightly trembled under mine, and he occasiOllally gasped for breath as
though in pain. (These fits occurred at intervals throughout the seance and
always when the writing was taking place, but on no occasion did he move
either his hands or feet.) The writing distinctly continued, cool, deliberate,
and steady. I could even hear the occasional dashes as in stroking the t's,
&c.; it invariably seemed to come, away fromMr. Davey, immediatelyunder-
neath my fingers. I could almost feel the chalk as it moved along ill its
weird progress, guided by what mysterious agency I know not.
All at once Mr. Davey said, "Quick ! ! in what colour will you have it
written 1" Pink was chosen. This is what appeared on lifting one slate
ofl':-
DUB SIB,-This experiment is a very difficult one, and we can but
rarely repeat it. (In green) You may rest assured that we shall do all in our
power to answer (in blue) you this evening, but we are verv anxi01lll'that ~\l
~igltlzed by ~D-O(5'~
422 The Possibilities of Mal-Obseruat,Wn, &c.
--not-this question (in pink) limply on account of the--queation we
1rill try and answer your question later on_d the--endeavour to
convince--any test you may luggest. " EluasT."
The latter part written in pink. Part of the nleuage we could not
decipher, and I accordingly cannot repeat it in full. This meuage occupied
about 2 minutes or 1811 in writing, and wu on the whole fairly well written.
[h] The next experiment wu with Mr. Davey'l closed llate. After it had
been produced' from my pocket we laid it on the table locked and with the
Imall piece of pencil inside, joined handl u before and the question 1rBI
put, .. Will the Emperor of Germany live through tqe present year f "8
Immediately the writing began, exactly the same u on previoua occaaioDl,
and when after the lpace of 4 minutes (about) I carefully unlocked the alate
we found the following wonderful meuage: "My Dear SirI,- It is a
popular error that if we can produce this writing under these conditiona we
might at the same time have a knowledge upon all queltions of a mundane
nature. One il apt to forget that prophet seer and propheteu are children
all of 'mother gueu,' and this rule applies to ns. Yet for ouraelvea we can
foresee much to happen in in the year 1889, and to do this we need but carry
out the instructionl of Bonnet(1) who said, 'Ne voua laaaez jamaia d'examiner
lea c&uaea dea grands changements, puiaque rien ne lervita jamaia tant a.veltre
instruction.' Your test is a levere one, for we have not the gift of clairvoy-
ance to-night. On VII -- we think (or thank) your friend from time to
time in explanation of this myltery try your teat again later on and we Bhall
lucceed. We hope 1;0-" (here the writing ends). This is clearly a direct
reply to all our queltions, and "the levere telt" referred to, points evidently
to my coat pocket's c(mUnU. What the mYlterions VII. means I do not know,
except that it may have lOme allUlion to the 7th September, the day on
which I wrote the queltiona. This belief is strengtheuedll by the anawer we
got in trying to find out the writing after the Roman letters VII, later on in
the evening, and which read (u Dluch u we could make out of it) &ptem.
This long measage wu to my mind the mOlt marvelloUi result of all, and ita
effect was Itrongly marked on Mr. Davey, who leemed in a ltate of great
prostration, and called for a glUl of water.
[i, k] Mr. Davey then placed a alate on two BlUaU boxes which rested on
the table, thUi j 3 piecel of cltalk,-blue, pink, and red-were then chosen
and placed on its surface (the llate) and over the chalk wu placed a tumbler;
tho gu wu llightly lowered, and we were told to say what fur\WJ :we would
Digitized by ~o'O(5.e
Eaperimental Investigation. 423
like to have drawn. I chose an octagon, Mr. Limmer chose a square. I saw
a piece of chalk slightly move and on lifting the glasa we saw two very indis-
tinct marks. We however re.solved to try again. This time the red piece of
chalk distinctly moved, but very quick. Lifting the tumbler we found this
figure I which evidently was iRtended for part of Mr. Limmer's
-
square.
[Z, m, n] I desired10 after this to have the writing on the double slate of
Mr. Davey's continued at the point where it had been broken oft', and
obtained this result on one of my slates which I held undemeath the table
and which began immediately. "We hope to see you again-Joey." I
was also anxious to know what the VII signified as I have already said
before ;-on the first attempt we got the answer-" good-bye Joey "-but
we were more aucceBBful on again putting the question, the result being a.
distinct" Septe---" ; whether, as I have already said, it was intended
for September I cannot teU.
As it was getting late (10.30) the .eance concluded. In finishing this
statement I will add that for my. part I am .. an outsider," have
never before given alate-writing or Spiritualism a thought until Mr.
Davey lent me "Psychography" and a copy of Light dated 8th
November, 1884, and invited me to relate my experiences as t.hey
appeared to my senses of Bight and hearing only; which I have
endeavoured to do in as complete a manner as poBBible. What the agency is
that moves the fragment of pencil I know not; I leave that for the 8a11anu.
It is a wonderful thing that part of an answer was written in French, a
language totally unknown11 to Mr. Davey. Also that 3 colours were employed
in writing another answer. Tric)ery to my mind is utterly impossible in any
respect. How it is aU done 1 cannot teU; my advice to the "sceptics" is
"go and judge for yourselves." JOHN H. RuT.
, 10/9/86.
2. RepO'1't of MR. LIMMER.
On Friday, tho 8th September, 1886, I had the privilege of being
present at a "Spiritualistic" .nce given by Mr. S. J. Davey at his
residence . . • Mr. Herbert Rait was the only other
person present besides Mr. Davey and myself.
'The only table UBed was a smail one which Mr. Davey informed UB wa.s
technically known as a " Pembroke." This table I thoroughly examined, and
nothing that could aid Mr. Davey in any way could I discover. The proceed-
ings then commenced by placing a common Blate, bought that evening and
marked by Mr. Rait, under the comer of the table and BuppOrted in that
position by the right and left hands of Mr. Da\'ey and Mr. Rait respectively,
while I completed the circle by holding their disengaged hands.
[c, c] The question" What is the time 7" was then asked by Mr. Rait,
and after a ahort interval I diatinctly heard writing, but on looking at the
slate the answer was not readable: the queBtion was therefore repeated, and
shortly after the word .. nine" was obtained.
[d, e, f] The next question asked by Mr. Rait Was'Di~i~ilYQK~9~~~
424, The P088ibilities of Mal-Observation, &c.
war with Ruuia or not 1" in reply to which we received the wonl
" Perhapa." The laDle gentleman then asked •• Will the Emperor of
Germany live through the year 1" lnatead of receiving a direct reply the
worda "Try chalk" were found written upon the aIate, and on adopting
that 8ugge8tion we obtained the 8ingle word .. later."
I may mention here that all the chalk and 8lates (with the exception of
the" locked slate" mentioned later on in this report) used during the even-
ing were brought by Mr. Rait, and had never been in the poueuion of Mr.
Davey.
[g] The next test W&8 that of two common slates being placed uporl the
table, one above the other, the frames of which fitud 80 accurately that it
appeared utterly impouible to insert anything by which the pencil could
be put in motion. These 8lates were previol18ly examined by Mr. Bait and
myself. Green, pink, blue and red chalk having been inserted by Mr. Rait,
the circle W&8 again formed in the manner before deecribed, Mr. Davey
having this time, though, both hands placed upon the top slate. The question,
"What does my right hand breast coat pocket contain 1" W&8 put by Mr.
Bait, and it W&8 agreed that the colour in which the anawer should be written
8hould be pink. I diatinctly heard the chalk pauing rapidly between the
slates, and in about two minute8 we had the following meBAge before ua.
(In pink)
"DUB Sm,
"This experiment ia a very di1Bcult one, and we can but rareIy
•• repeat it. (In green.) You may rest &l8ured that we Bhall do all in our
" power to &Dawer (in blue) you this evening, but we arc very anxioue that
.. you should not put this que8tion (in pink again) (word not plainly written
.. here) simply on alc of the (word not readable) question. We will try and
" anawer your question later on, and the (word not readable) endeavour to
.. convince (word not readable) any test you may 8uggest.
" ERNEST."
At this stage of the proceedings Mr. Davey appeared to be rather
exhausted, and drank a gl&18 of water.
[11.] Mr. Davey then produced a "locked slate," which I examined moat
minutely, and &8 far &8 I W&8 able to judge, the surfaces were genuine slate
ADd had not undergone any proceu of preparation which would aid him in
obtaining writing. A 8mall crumb of pencil W&8 inserted, and the slate
closed and locked by Mr. Rait. The key W&8 then given into my pOlll8llion.
We then placed our hands in an exactly simiIar position &8 before, and
Mr. Rait having repeated the question" Will the Emperor of Germany live
through the year 1" I very lOOn heard the pencil travelling ovor the surface
of the slate. After the lapse of about four minutes the slate W&8 carefully
unlocked by Mr. Bait, and the 11 pencil very much worn WII8 found at the
place where the writing ended.
The lines on the first side of the 81ate ran in a diagonal direction from left
to right, but on tho 8econd side it:w&8 done in the usual manner, i.Il., from
Bide to side. The writing W&8 of a very neat character and the majority of
the letters were well fonned. The following is a copy of the letter.
"MyDuR SIRB,-It is a popular error that if we can produce this writing
.. under these conditiona we might at the 8&nle time have arImn-.JMgp upon all
Digitized by-\JUU(Sl'-
Experimental Investigation. 425
.. questions of a mundane nature. One is apt to forget that' Prophet, seer,
" and prophetess are children all of Mother Gueaa ' and this rule applies to
" us, yet for ourselves we can forsee much to happen in in (the word 'in'
" occurred twice here) the year 1889 and to do this we need but carry out
" the instruction of Bonnet (this name was indistinct) who said' Ne voua
" , la88ez jamais d'examiner les causes des grands changements puisque rien
., , servira jamais tant a.votre instruction.'
* "Your test is a severe one for we have not the gift of clairvoyance
.. to-night on VII oz we think (or thank) your friend from time to time
.. in explanation of this mystery.
"Try your teat again later on and we ahallsucceed.
-. Saw Pencil He here, on eareInll)' opening the Slate.
[l, m, n] The writing having stopped so abruptly, two 13 ordinary alates
were placed upon the table in the manner before deacribed, and it was
asked by Mr. &it that the letter should be concluded. Within a period of
15 seconds from the time of asking such question and after completing the
circle with our hands, the words "to see you again, Joey," were written.
The two slates were again placed in the aame position as before, and Mr.
Rait having put an unimportant question, after the completion of the circle as
before, I aaw upon the slate" Good-bye, Joey" ; but on a second trial a
scrawl was obtained which looked very much like" Sept. Joey" but it was
impoaaible to aay definitely what it was intended for.
[i,j, k] The final test to which Mr. Davey was subjected was that of
writing under an inverted tumbler under the following conditions. An
ordinary tumbler was inverted and placed upon one of the slates brought by
Mr. &it. This slate was raised slightly from the table and supported by two
small boxes placed under the ends of the slate. Blue, pink, and red chalk
were then placed under the glau by Mr. Rait, and after joining hands, Mr.
Rait asked that an octagon should be formed with the red chalk_ After
waiting for a few minutes the red chalk was seon to make two short lines
almost at right angles to one another, thus, T The aame test, after the
slate had been cleaned, was repeated, and with precisely the aame result. I
then asked that a square should be formed by the red chalk, and two sides
of it were made almost instantly, and in the colour required. Although
• This probably refers to BOrne questions which Mr. Rait had written and
enclosed in a sealed envelope and placed in bis breast coat pocket and known
only to himself. It will be remembered he previously asked" What does my
right-hand breast coat pocket contain? "-H. J. L. . .. Gooole
Digitized by "
426 The Possibilities of Mal-Ob8ervatwn, &c.
looking to within a few inches of the tumbler and _ing the pencil move. I
failed to diacover anything which could have caused it to do 10.
I can only lay that the whole thing was totally inexplicable to me. and
to the best of my belief it was impouible for Mr. Davey to have prodoced
any of the above resulta by the aid of trickery, as he did not appear in any
way to try to divert my attention either from himaelf or the elates, and 1
watched him as clO88lyas it was pouible throughout the whole proceedings.
HUTNALL J. LnnoB.
SITTING II.
The following three reports are by a member of the Council of the
American Society for Psychical Research, and his wife and daughter.
I shall speak of them as Mr. and Mrs. and Misa Y. The reports ought
to be specially instructive in consequence of the differences of attitude
illustrated by the sitters. Mrs. Y. was unaware, until after her report
had been written, that the phenomena were nothing but conjuring.
Miss Y. was unawa.re of this fact during the sitting, but I understand
tha.t she was unintentionally informed of the true nature of my perfor-
mances before she wrote her report. Mr. Y. was aware, before any
arrangement had been made for the sitting, of the work upon which I
was engaged, and knew that any phenomenon which might occur would
be due to my own conjuring powers.
1. Report of MRs. Y.
On the evening of September 10th, 1886, 1 went with my husband and
daughter to a room in Furnival's Inn, to witnesa the alate-writing perfomlADces
of Mr. Davey. On our way we stopped at a stationer's, and my husb.utd
pllrchaaed three perfectly new ordinary Ichool alatea. We found Mr.
Davey to be a young man of manifest intelligence and great eamllstness of
scientific purpo88. He impressed me as being thoroughly honest and above
all trickery. HeallOunpresaed me as being in a very critical state of health,
and I should say the nervous Itrain of his llate-writing performances was
most injurious to hinl.
[a] We seated ourselves at an ordinary Pembroke table, brought out of
the kitchen attached to the chambers belonging to the friend who had loaned
his room for the occasion. A piece of chalk was placed on one of our alatea,
and the slate was held tightly up against the underside of the table leaf by one
of Mr. Davey's handsand one of my daughter's. Their thumbs were on top of
the table, and their hands spread underneath on the underside of the alate.
I held Mr. Davey's other hand, and we all joined hands around the table.
I watched the two hands holding the slate without a moment's intormisaion,
and I am cottfidet.t that neither Mr. Davey's hand nor my daughter's moved
in the least during the whole tilDe. Two or thnie questions were asked
without any sign of response. l Then Mr. Davey asked rather emphatically,
looking hard at the comer of the table under Jrhwh ~hey were
Digitized by ~-U081e
EapeTimentol, Investigat-ion. 427
holding the slate, " Will you do anything for us 1" After this question had
been repeated three or four times, a scratching noise was heard, and on
drawing out the slate a distinct" Yes" was found written on it, the chalk
being found stationary at the point where the writing ceased. As my eyes
were fixed uninterruptedly on both my daughter'S hand and on Mr.
Davey's also, and as I certainly had fast hold of his other hand all the time,
I feel confident he did not write this word in any ordinary way.1
[b] This same result was obtained two or three times. But Mr. Davey
did not seem to think it was enough of a test, and he proposed that we
should try it with the slate on the table in full sight of us all, with a.
candle3 burning brightly in the middle of the table.
[c] He gave me a looked slate of his own, which I thoroughly washed and
locked myself, and put the key in my own pocket. We then joined hands,
and Mr. D. and my daughter placed one hand each on the slate as it was
lying on top of the table. Different questions were asked, and we waited
some time, but no response came. Mr. Davey seemed to me very much
exhausted, and I urged him to desist from any further efforts. But he
seemed loth to do this, and said he would rest a little while, and would then,
perhaps, be able to go on. After a short time of conversation, the slates all
the while being ht full view and carefully watched by me, we again tried it,
under the same conditions as before, only that this time Mr. D. requested
us each to take a book at random from the shelves in the room, and mentally
think of two numbers representing a page and a line, and he would see if he
could reproduce it. This also failed of any result, and Mr. D. said he
feared he was too tired to produce anything, as he had been very much
exhausted by a long and very succeasful ~ance the night before. We again
begged him to desist, but after a short rest, during which he walked into the
next room for fresh air, I thought, he insisted on another trial. The slates
still remained all the time in full view on the table. Mr. D. asked my
daughter to choose another book, which she did at random, he having his
back to her and standing at some distance while she 4id it.4 This book was
at once tied up and sealed by one of the party, Mr. D. never touching
it from first to last. I then held it in my lap, while we joined hands as
before, and Mr. D. and my danghter each put one hand on the slate.
Still nothing came. Then we changed positions, and I placed my hand on
the slate instead of my daughter, giving her the book to hold. During tills
change she kept her hand on the slate until I had placed mine beside it, and
the book was awaiting her on the opposite side of the table, my husband all
the while holding Mr. D.'s other hand. I am confident that Mr. D. could
not poBlibly have manipulated the slate during this change, for it was
in full sight all the while, and our hands were on it, and the book WIUI tied
and sealed on the opposite side of the table. A few minutes after this
readjustment Mr. D. seemed to have a sort of electric shook pass through
him, the perspiration started out in great drops on'his forehead, and the
hand that was touching mine quivered as with a nervous spasm. Atonce we
heard the pencil in the slate moving, and in a few moments Mr. Davey
BIked me to unlook the slate. My daughter took the key out of her pocket
and handed it across the table to me, and I unlocked the slate, and found it
covered on both the inner sides with writing. When read, IlhiR_ miwr
Digitized by G\)v(S1t::"
428 The P088wilit·j,es of Mal-Observation, &c.
proved to be a IOrt of euay or exhortation on the subject of peyc:hical
research, with quotationa from the book ch088n intenningled throughout. I
forgot to eay that Mr. D. had &lked us all to chOOl8 in our minds two
numben under ten to represent a page and a line of the book, but had finally
concentrated hia thought on what my husband wu thinking. In the writing
there were quotations from every page we had anr of us thought of, but no~
always the line; but in the caae of nly husband the line W&l correct, but
not the page. He had thought of page 8, line 8. The line WlUI quoted
from page 3, and Mr. D. aaid this confusion between 8 and 3 quite
frequently occurred, because of the similarity of the numbere. Thia tat
seemed to me perfect. The alate W&l under my own eye on top of the table
the whole time, and either my daughter's hand or my own W&l placed firmly
upon it without the interwiaaion of even a aecond.' Moreover, we c10eed and
opened it ouraelvea.
[d) After a short rest, Mr. Davey &lked us to w&lh two of our own alatea
and put them togethor, with pieces of chalk of difrerent colours between,
and all of us to reach aeroaa the table and hold them all together. Thia we
did,7 and then Mr. D. &lked my husband to chOOle mentally three colours be
wiahed uaed in writing. After all holding the alates cloeely preaaed together
for a few minutes, we placed them on the table, and Mr. D. and I plaeed our
handa on them while the rest joined handa. In a few momenta the _e
IOrt of electric shock _med to pall through Mr. D., and hia hand and arm
which were on the slates quivered nervously, and immediately a scratching
noiae was heard. He then &lked me to lift one slate off the other, which I
did, and found one side covered with writing in three colours, the very three
my husband had mentally chosen. I am perfectly confident that my hand
W&l not removed' from the slates for one single inatant, and that I never lost
sight of them for a moment.
By this time Mr. D. seemed to UII to be 10 much exhausted that we begged
him to give up any further testa, but he insiated on trying one more, which
W&I u it proved the moat remarkable of all
[e) He placed one of ~ur alates on three little china aalt-cellara that lifted
it up about an inch from the table. Upon the middle of thia he placed aevera!
pieces of different coloured chalks, and covered them with a tumbler. Then he
told my husband to form a mental picture of lOme figure he wiahed to have
drawn on the alate under the glaaa, and to name aloud the colour he would have
it drawn in. He thought of a cro.., and Ch088 aloud the blue colour.' I sug-
gested that blue W&l too dark to be easily seen, and &lked him to take white,
which he agreed to. We eat holding handa and watching the pi8C811 of chalk
under the tumbler. No one W&l touching the alate thia time, Dot even Mr.
D. In a few minutea, Mr. D. W&l again violently agitated &I with an electric
ahock, which went through him from head to foot, and immediately after-
warda we '410, with our own eY8l, each one of ua, the pi8C811 of chalk under
the glaaa begin to move alowly, and apparently to walk of their own accord
aero.. the apace of the alate under the tumbler. My husband had Aid just
before that if the piece of red chalk under that tumbler moved, he would
give hia head to anyone who wanted it, 10 aure wu he that it could not
pOllibly move. The fint piece of chalk that began to walk abeut WlUI that
very red piece I Then the blue and white movedaimultaneoualJw AI though
Digitized by ~UDis't::
Experimental I n'L'estigation. 429
uncertain which WI8 the one desired. It WI8 utterly I8tounding to all of us
to see these pieces of chalk thus walking about under the glaaa with no
visible agency to move them! All the while Mr. D., whpse handa were held
on one aide by myself and on the other aide by my husband, seemed to be
on a great nervous strain, with hot handa and great beads of perspiration.
When the chalks stopped moving, we lifted tho) tumbler, and there WI8 a
cross, partly blue and partly white, and a long red line marking the path
taken by the red chalk! We were impressed by this teat beyond the power
of worda to declare. The test conditions were perfect, and the whole thing
took place under our eyes on top of the table with no handa of anybody near
the slate. This WI8 the close of the evening's performances.
Upon reading over my account I see that I have put the lea.ving of the
room by Mr. D. in the wrong place. It should have been just before the
writing on our slates with coloured chalks instead of just before the
writing on the locked slate. But in either case the slates were all the
time in full view on the table with the rest of us who remained behind.
I consider the test conditions to have been perfect throughout, and see
no possible explanation for the very remarkable phenomena that occurred.
MRS. - -
September 14th, 1886.
2. Report of MISS Y.
The exhibition WI8 given in Mr. Hodgson's sitting-room, a medium-sized
room with a large square table in the centre, covered with a cloth. Mr.
Hodgson and my father and mother and I were in the room, seated around
this table, when Mr. Davey entered. He looked at the table, and said it
would not do. So we pushed it aside, and a Pembroke table WI8 brought in
in its place; I do not know whether it WI8 the property of Mr. Hodgson
or whether Mr. Davey had brought it with him. It was quite bare, and we
placed on it a candle and three single slates which my father had bought at a
shop on our way to Furnival's Inn. We also had on it a bowl half full of
water, containing a sponge to wl8h the slates with, and a cloth with which to
dry them. On the large table was aIamp and on the mantelpiece were three
candles, so the room WI8 quite clearly lighted. We sat in a circle around
the table, my mother next to Mr. Davey, then my father, then Mr.
Hodgson, then I by Mr. Davey.
[a] Mr. Hodgson brought us a little pasteboard box, in which were 8.
number of small pieces of chalk of diff'erent colours. I ohose two of these
and placed them on ol1e of our sla.tes. We had all previously written either
our names or our initials on that side of the slate. Mr. Davey slipped the
slate under the edge of the table, I holding on to it all the time, and we
held it flat under the table with our thumbs above the table. I held the slate
very firmly against the table, and I am sure I did not relax my hold once.
After waiting some time and I8king various questions, we heard, or seemed
to hear, the chalk moving on the slate. Wo drew the slate out,tO and on it
WI8 written" Yes," which was an answer to our laat question.
[b] We again put the alate under the table, and, in order to be sure that
nothing had been writtE-n 011 it, I half slipped it out again and saw that it
WI8 perfectly clean. After some more waiting, my father I8k)lti whoI\ we
Digitized by GOogle
430 The Possibilities of Mal-Observation, &c.
were to 8ail for America. The chalk again squeaked, and on drawing the
81ate out we fouud" the 18th" written very indistinctly. This happened
not to be the date, which was the 15th. I forgot to mention that while we
were waiting for the writing we had all joined handa, and talked on indifferent
,8ubjects. Just before the writing came Mr. Davey grew very quiet and
writhed with his arms. His left hand, the one not holding the alate,
preued very hard upon the table. Meanwhile, my father and mother llBd
changed places, becau8e it was indicated in lOme way, by the writing on the
alate, I think, that we were not all seated in our proper places.
[c] After these experiments, Mr. Davey seemed very much exhausted.
Buthe drank some water, and insisted on going on to try the experiment with
the books. He had previously brought out his own little alate, a double
-one made of ebony, with a silver lock on it, He said he would use this in
the experiment. We saw that it wu clean, and then one of us locked it.
I think my mother put the key in her pocket. Then we each chose a book
.at random from a large bookcase at the end of the room, in which the books
were arranged apparently without any system. I can't remember whether
we left the slate on the table while we chose our books, or whether one of
us held it.11 When we sat down at the table again, I put my hand on the
81ate and leaned my elbow on my book. Then Mr. Davey asked us each to
t!1ink of two numbera under 10, one for a page in our book and one for a
line on that page. This we did, and sat waiting for some time with our
lumda joined, but no writing appeared on the slate. Mr. Davey 8eemed
ao exhausted that we determined to give up the experiment, and I put my
book back in it. place. We sat as before around the table, diacuBBing the
failure of the experiment. Finally Mr. Davey started up and said, "We
must try it with one book alone. Will you choose one, Mias -- Y
" I
.suppoaed that he asked me to do it because my seat was nearest to the
bookcase. I got up and went to the bookcase. Mr. Davey stood by the
table with bis back to me. That latter fact I feel as if I remember mOlt
.distinctly. I mention it to 8how that I chose my book at random and
was not influenced in my choice by him. As I came back to the table he
.said, "Do not let me 8ee the name of the book." But u I did not undel'"
8tand what the trick was to bo, I forgot his injunction and placed the book
on the table at my right lumd. Mr. Davey was on my left. However, I
only left it there for a minute or two, and I am 8ure that I either looked at
it or held it the whole time, 80 that he could not ha"e opened it without my
knowledge. Mr. Hodgson brought me lOme 8tring and this I passed around
the book 8everal times and tied with four knots. Then my mother sealed
the knots and took the book. She did not hold it in her hand the whole
time, but either let it lie in her lap or sat on it. But Mr. Davey could not
have taken the book or opened it without her knowledge, as he sat perfectly
8till and we saw everything he did. Wo opened the double 8late, and after
we had seen that it wu perfectly clean, I put some chalk in it, locked it, and
put the key in my pocket; and I also kept hold of the 81ate during the
.experiment. Mr. Davey uked us each to think of two numbers u before.
Finally he asked us to write them down on a 8late. I wrote mine on one of
our own 8late8 so that he could not poB8ibly see what I had written, and I
placed it on the table away from Mr. Davey, and leaned my elbow on it.
Digitized by Coogle
;,
E~ntal Investigation. 431
I think the others did the same with the other slates. To my remembrancf'l,12
some of us watched the locked slate all the time while we were writing.
After a few minutes Mr. Davey asked my mother to change places with
me. This we did, but I did not relax my hold of the slate until ahe had
her hand on it. She gave me the book, and I sat on it, and we again joined
hands. Mr. Davey's right hand waa on the slate which waa on the table,
and my father held his other hand. Mr. Davey said that the experiment
was too difficult while we all thought of different numbers. So he aaked
my father to think of his numbers, and the rest of us not to think of oum.
After a little while the chalk inside the slate squeaked a good deal. I took
the key out of my pocket, and one of us, my mother, I think, unlocked the
slate. Both aidea were covered with writing, all of which I will not quote.
Then we cut the string of the book, having found the seal untouched. We
opened the book at my father's page and line, 8 and 8, but there waa nothing
there that waa quoted on the slate. So we looked at page 3, line 8. There
we found this line, ., The greenest grassea Nature laid." On the slate was
this sentence, "The greenut grtlIIIU will be laid by N at1Ws." It waa not in
quotation marks, although three of the words were underlined. On my
mother's page, 8, but not on her line, 4, waa the title of a poem, "The
House of Clouds." This waa on the slate, underlined. On Mr. Hodgson's
page, 7, but not on his line, 9, waa the title, "The Deserted Garden." This
waa also on the slate, underlined. On my page, 1, we found nothing that waa
quoted on the slate.
[el] After this experiment, we put aaide Mr. Davey's slate and took two of
our own. We cleaned them, and placed on one a number of little piecea of
-coloured chalk. The second slate waa put on the fimt one, and my mother
and Mr. Davey held it above the table. Mr. Davey asked my father to
think of three colours. We joined hands once more, and in a little while we
heard writing between the slates. When we took one off, on the under one
waa written :-
In .,.ed, " We are very glad to be able to give you this."
In white, "We can do more yet."
In green, "Good-bye."
My father had thought of red, white, and blue. We could not be sure by
the night light whether the •• good·bye" waa written in green or blue. But
there was a piece of ch8J.k on the slate that looked much more blue than the
piece with which the" good-bye" was written.
[s] After this we tried one more experiment. Mr. Davey placed one of our
slates on two little Japanese salt-cellars, made of china covered with wicker,
and one common glass salt-cellar. On the slate we put a number of pieces of
coloured chalk, and over this a. clean tumbler. Meanwhile Mr. Davey took
the candle from our table, and put it on the other one. This made the light
a little leBS distinct, but it waa still very good. Then Mr. Davey asked my
~ father to draw a figure and write a colour on his double alate. My father
. I made a star, and wrote" Red." This he ahowed to all of us except Mr.
Davey, after which he locked it, and put it in his pocket, and gave me the
key. We joined hands, and Mr. Davey'a hands did not touch the slate or
the glasa at all. We sat for some time, without any results.
Finally, we gave it up, and my mother and I put onour cloaks to go home
Digitized by Coogle
432 The Possibilit·ies of Mal-Observation, &c.
But before we left the room, we decided to give it one more trial. We
thought that perhape we had made too complicated a figure, 10 we unlocked
the alate, and rubbed out what my father had written before. Then I dre,..
a Cl'Olll. and he wrote .. Blue." We II&t down at the table and watched the
chalk with the cloaeat Attention. Mr. DAvey's arms shook violently, and once
when the chalk begAn to move, he snatched his hands off the table. But
my father and mother did not let go of them. While wo were waiting for the
chalk to move Mr. DAvey _med very much excited, and he asked my father
whAt colour he had written. My father laid .. Blue," whereupon my mother
laid, .. What a pity you did not lI&y white. It would have been 10 much
euier to see the white move." So my father lAid, ,. Yery well, let it be
white." At Mr. DAvey's request, both he and I kept our minds fixed on
white, and on the figure I had made on the alate.
Finally, the red chalk actually did move acl'Olll the alate. Mr. Dal"ey
snatched the glus off. I expected to see a red Croll, but the red had only
made a slight short mark. There was a long white mark, and acl'Olll it. near
the top, was a green lnark. But the green mark was very small, and not at
right angles with the white mark, nor did it extend as far on one side of the
white mark as on the other. 13
That is all that happened, as nearly as I can remember. It took place
two evenings ago, the 10th of September. The only curious thinr I noticed
about Mr. Davey was the odd way in which his arms, and IOmetinles his
whole body, writhed, especially just while the alate-writing was going on.
At the time, I was convinced that they were not tricb, alt.hough I had no
other explanation for them.
September 12th, 1886.
3. RepIJrl of MR. Y.
On September 10th, 1886, last evening, with my wife and a daughter of
nineteen yeatS of age, I availed myself of an invitation to see the phenomena
of slate-writing at the rooms of Mr. Hodgson, No.1, Fumival's Inn,
London.
. The "medium" was introduced as Mr. ClifI'ord [Davey, see p. 410]. a
gentleman of known social standing who had never accepted any pecuniary
returns for his performances.
Mr. Hodgaon's room waa, throughout the conference, lighted by four
candles and one shaded lamp, there being no moment of obscuration of light
through the whole evening. The large heavy table in the room was, at Mr.
Davey's suggestion, substituted by a smaller one with two folding leaves,
the table ordinarily in use in Mr. Hodgaon's breakfast-room. The three
alates were wood bound, about 8 x 10 in. size. ThElY were purchased by me
at a cost of threepence each, from a stationer in Holbom, on my way to the
conference. Their surfaces were "ery rough, requiring much waalling with
a sponge and dry rubbing before they were smooth enough for use.
Mr. Davey had two much larger' slates witlt false black card surfaces,
showing how persons were often inlposed on by profOl8ional mediums; 1 but
I The remark which I believe I made was that the slate with a falae flap
was often put forward by professional coniurers as an explanation of the s1&te-
writing tricks performed by .. mediumll."-S. J. D.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 433
of these no use whatever was made. He alBO had a small silver-mounted
ebony framed locked slate. I shall distinguish this by "D.'s slate," and ~he
ones I bought by .. my slates." In a card paper box were a number of very
small pieces of pencil of six clliferent colours. The whole apparatus has now
been described.
[/I] Mr. Hodgson sat opposite to me, on my left sat my wife opposite to my
daughter, between whom and myself Mr. Davey was placed. Apencilwu put
on one of my slates, which wu sustained under the edge of the table by my
daughter's fingers at one end and by Mr. Davey's at the other, their thumba
being all the time in sight on the top of the table. The handa of all five of
the party were then joined, and BOon we heard a BOund like that of a pencil.
My slate was slid out from under the table by my daughter. At the first
and second examination nothing was on the slate, and it wu washed afresh,
and soon the word" yes " was found scrawled on the upper side of the slate
as an answer to BOme inclliferent question.
[b] This was once repeated.
My daughter wu sure that her hand had pressed the slate to the lInder
side of the table during the whole time. It is to be noted that during about a
minute of the time of waiting Mr. Davey seemed seized with violent nervous
contractions of his face, 1U'IDlI, and handa, which appeared to draw largely on
hiB strength. They wore succeeded by a feverish condition of the surface of
hiB hand.
[c] He next requested us to select, each one, a book from Mr. Hodgson's
library. We did BO, and he proposed to give us the contents of lines, selected
by page and line by us, in D.'s locked·slate. But nothing came. He then
proposed to try it again on a single book, and my daughter, leaving him at
the table, replacedl ' on the shelves the book she had first taken down, and
took at random a copy of Mrs. Browning's PothM, Second Series. 1880.
London edition.
He requested us to mentally choose each one a page and line by nurnhara
below 10.
I selected page 8, line 8,
My wife page 8, line 4,
Mr. Hodgsonl6 page 7, line 9,
My daughter page 1 line 9,
and we each one told aloud1e the page and line selected.
During this time and previous to the announcement of the selection, ..
pencil had been put into D.'s slate, which had lain on the top of the open
table throughout. It was then locked, and the key paced in my daughter's
pocket. My wife's hand was then placed upon D.'s slate as it lay on
top of the table, and it certainly so remained until, after hearing the
BOund of writing, my daughter produced the key, and we opened the
slate.17 My choice had been page 8, line 8, and while the others conversed
Mr. D. bade me fix my mind intently on these figures during a space
extending probably to 10 minutes. Then my wif" unlocked D.'s slate, and
found the following worda written in legible hand. The italics are aa
in the original.
"How far you remain, oh unbelieving ones, from the goal of your
endeavours. It is not through the domain of Physical .Pheno~~~ byt
Digitized by ~81e
434 The P088ibilities of MoJ,..Observation, .te.
through the empire of the lOul'. dominion, that man malt enter upon the
higher patha that .tretch away into the Divine. 'The Kingdom of God ia
within you.' Seek not to entangle the brightn_ of your lOul in the
Labyrinthine MCIIUl of the phyBical world fMicA will pnYfIe to be merely a
HOtlH of Cloudl, and will leave you more forlorn than a lJut:rUd Gankn.,
where not even the greenut graMU will be laid by Nat.ure to aanctify her
right. We men a" (here it enda with a long irregular line, auch &I migh\
be made by a pencil rolling).
On referring to the book which had been lying in our Bight tied up &ad
aealed, we found on page 8 the h6&ding to be The H_ of Olouda, being
the word. italiciaed in the alate-writing. On page 3 (which, Mr. D. aid,
the power, whatever it wu, might have miataken for 8 u being like it)
and line 8, we found " the greeneat grauea Nature," worda alao italiciaed on
the alate.
The other worda, "1DAicA will prOM," in italiCi were not in the pagee of
poem! indicalllld. There l8ema to have been no attempt to give any word.
from the linea I8lected by the other three peraoDL
[d] We next placed ImIll pencila, in six coloun, between two of my
newly-bo~ht alatea, marked by oU1'l81vea with our namea written in pencil,
without removing them from the top of the table, and the banda of lOme of
the party were laid upon them for lOme minutee, after which they were
held up in the banda of two peraona. I had been uked to 000018 the coloura
in which the writing mould be made. I mentally 00018 red, white, and blue,
but did not tell my choice. After holding Mr. D.'. band for lOme minutea,
with my mind strongly fixed on theae coloun, the alatea were oponed, and
we found, in the order I had mentally 181ected :
(Red) .. We are glad to be able to give you this."
(White) .. We can do more ye'."
(Blue) "Goodbye."
[e] The Jut performance wu the moving of the pencila on my alate under
a glua. Two Chineae cups were taken from the mantel. On thee the
alatu reated, with piecea of pencil cut by oU1'l8lvea from the enda of
coloured crayons of varioUl colou1"8, on ita top, under the glua. Upon D.'.
lock alate, which he could not aee, I wrote "Blue" as the colour which
.hould be uaed, and my daughter made a croll for the figure to be written.
We then locked D.'lllate, whioh I placed in my pocket, while my daughter
put the key into her pocket. WII joined handl as before, but there wu no
movement of the pencila. He took the glua off, threw off the penoils, and
put them back again in a group, near the centre. .Again we joined banda. I
selected white for the colour, at my daughter'l outspoken luggeatiOn, and
Mr. D. became spasmodically excited, trembling greatly.
Soon the red pencil began to move in full view of all of 01. It ltopped
and lOOn began again to move. The distance trav81'l8d was probably an
inoh. I did not see the other pencil enda move, though they might have
done 10.
Upon removing the glUl we found tracea in white, green, blue, and red,
but aoarcely the figure traced by my daughter on D.'.locked alate.18
Having in my boyhood practised legerdemain I am able to l8e how a large
portion of the publicly performed triob are, or could be. done; and sur-
Digitized by Coogle
E~ntol Investigation. 435
prising as were the very able performances of Mr. D., I could tell how most
of them could be donell without anything beyond a probable mind-tl'&llll-
ference of thought intensely concentrated on my part. But I stood in ~he
se,me relation to the performances which I could not unravel, in which others
stood to thOBe which I could perform or explain. I cannot therefore make
my own discernment the limit of the ,. natural," and say that the perform-
ances undiBoovered by me are "supernatural." I am surprised when I find
tha.t those vened in conjuring, when they reach the limit of their own
ingenuity and knowledge, ascribe to supernatural causes what is beyond their
ken.
Mr. Davey is a gentleman, I believe, incapable of intentional· deception.
He makes no statement of his performances beyond the fact that they are
phenomena to be accurately observei. They exceed in their apparent
supematuraIiam the displays usually made by paid mediums. I believe that;
a full explanation of his methods would "fire a shot heard round the
world" in almost every civilised community where the phenomena of so-
called "Spiritualism" are perplexing, and often madden, true and good
people.
Whatever may be the real psychical phenomena which lie behind or
alongside of the supposed revelation from spirits, they should be separated
from the often proved deceptions of paid mediWDB. And I can conceive of
no more efl'ectual step towards this than for some one who excels these
magicians upon their own chosen field, to frankly tell the world how it
is all done. Scientists then would have the ground cleared for accurate
investigation, and, more important still, millions might be saved from the
delusions of deceitful " mediums." For the atrocious wickedneBB of deceit-
fully trespaBBing by ffaud upon the most holy of all human relationahips, the
sacred regard for the dead, it is difficult to find strong enough terms to
express our contemptuous reprobation.
SITTING III.
The sitting described by Mr. Legge in the following letter took
place on the same evening as the one described in the foregoing
three reports, September 10th, 1886.
My DBA-It HODGSON,-
Report of Mlr.. LBoaB.
12, Mitre Court Ohambers,
Temple, E.O.
12th September, 1886.
I said I would let you have a straightforward account of what I
BBW in your chambers on Friday evening; here it is, written while my
recollections are distinct. I had been sitting with Hughes, who told me
you had a seance on. We were talking on various subjects, and never
touched that of the seance going on in the next room, so that in fact 1
soon forgot all about it. Presently however the door oDen...r, and~
DlgMed by~OO(5''-
2 F 2
436 The Possibilities of Mal-Observation, &c.
came in with Mr. --, whom I had never seen before, and behind him were
his wife and daughter. A little embarra.aaed by sudden introductions, I
paued out into the entry to your roo018, and there saw for the first time
Clifford (the name, is it not 1) [Davey, see p. 410]. In a few minutes the
___ leU, and I went into the room where the seance had been. There I
was introduced to Davey, who suggested, after some talk on what had
gone before, that I might like to see something.
[d] I jumped at the proposal, and as a preliminary took Davey's locked
alate, opened it, and cleaned it (or rather cleaned it again, for it was clean
already), then, having slipped in a bitof pencil, locked it, and put the key in
my pocket, keeping the slate also in my hand or under my arm all the time
afterwards. 1
[tI] Next I chose one of your slates, cleaned it, and, at Davey's
request, having put a fragment of pencil upon it, slippedll it under the table,
80 as just to cover it with the slab, the pencil of course being on the upper
IUrface. The table was a plain deal one, and I satisfied myself that there
were no projections on the under-surface which could leave a mark. We then
formed contact, Davey's right hand being partly on my left and partly on
the slate, i.e., where his hand overlapped mine which held the slate pl'888ed
against the table. The faint lOund of writing WIlolJ distinctly audible, and
when it ceased I drew the slate out. There were merely indistinct scrawla
upon it.
[b] But it appeared that I ought to have asked a question to myself,
and 80 extracted an answer from the slate. So after I had cleaned the slate
I thought of a question. I acted preciaely as before.8 The sound of writing
was again heard, and the slate, when I drew it out, bore clearly and
distinctly written tlte word" yes "-the ftnalletter of which was done in
particularly admirable style. The question' had reference to lOme doubtful
increase in my official salary, and I am bound to say I was as much delighted
as astounded by the mysterioUII writing.
[c] The next experiment was the placing of 3 bits of coloured chalk
on the table, and of a clean llate (selected and placed by myself)S over
them. I put my hand on the slate, Davey his on mine, and we joined
contact. Again we heard the sound of writing, and when I lifted the
slate there was written large and neatly in the coloured chalks (three lines
or so in each colour) this mesaage :-"Don't you think I've done enough
for you to-night I'm tired Joey." I noticed the chalka seemed worn,
showing signa of work, just like the little bit of pencil in the previous
experiment.
[ttl After this Davey asked me to write a question in chalk on one of your
slates. While I was writing it he asked for a drink of water, and you
pointed to a comer of the room where there was some. He went there and
when he came back seemed to have forgotten his request for he now asked
me for the locked slate, which I had latterly put in my pocket.G I brought it
out, placed it on the table, set my hand on it, Davey his on mine, and
joined contact just as before with Hughes and yourself, Hughes holding my
right and your left, you Davey'S left. Then we heard the same writing
sound, very faint this time, and after a considerable interval I was told to
take up the llate and unlock it. Taking the key out of mYrPOCket fdid 10,
Digitized by ~008 e
Experi'TMntal Investigation. 437
and BaW written on both leaves a long message, precisely as I give it :-" H
you don't believe in spirit power after"this you are not worth the attention
of any honest medum (Bic) Joey." Mter this, Davey, who seemed
pretty tired, had to rush off to catch a train. I should add that the room
had been in full lampT light all the time, the lamp being placed on a side
table thus throwing a certain light under as well as over the table we were
sitting at. Also that the contact was not continuously perfect, for I
remember that Hughes and yourself occasionally left one hand free for a
short time, and lastJy that there was no enforced silence.
The above are the facts as detailed as I can give them; I offer no com·
ment on them for indeed I can't. Though I had heard of such experiments
before, personal experience was entirely new to me, and has left me in
immense perplexity.
If you see Davey, please thank him for his kindnesa in troubImg after
an already long sitting to give me some specimens of his "craft," or whatever
name one can give 10 nameleBB a faculty. I am also sincerely obliged to
Hughes and yourself.-Yours,
J. G. !.Eoo••
SITTING IV.
The next three reports are by Mr. Padshah, and Mr. and Mrs.
Russell. Mr. Padshah had had some previous experience with a well·
known medium, but had not been convinced that the phenomena which
he had witnessed in the medium's presence were not the result of
trickery. His account of his seance with me shows that he was in some
respects a careful observer, and that he was still more careful in record·
ing his remembrances. He was not informed until after he had written
his report, that the phenomena were due to conjuring. Mr. and Mrs.
Russell, however, knew before the sitting that they were about to
witness conjuring performances. They came on an unexpected visit to
Mr. Hodgson, and on learning that I was a.bout to give a sitting,
requested permission to be present. I was perfectly conscious of the
fact that they were both using their best endeavours to discover my
exact modus operandi. And although Mr. Russell failed to detect any
of my writing processes, he correctly observed and remembered some of
my manipulations with slates a.bove the table, which, it will be seen,
entirely escaped the observation or remembrance of Mr. Padshah.
1. Report of MR. PADSHAH.
1, Furnival's Inn, London.
Sept. 15, 1886.
This evening in Hodgson's room we had a ~ance with Mr. Davey; Mr.
and Mrs. Russell, Mr. F. S. Hughes, Hodgson and myself being the
party. Before sitting I had lOme interesting conversation with Mr. D. about
the results usually got by him and lOme which I had with Eglin1pv.. Mrl D.
. Digitized by ~008 e
4038 7'he P088ibilities of Mal-Observation, t/;c.
in COUI'IIe of the oonvenation told me he waa very anxioWl that hilreaw....
abould be tried and watched like- thOle of any profe.ioDAl medium, and
indeed, his subeequent proceedinga were very ~bly contrasted with
those witneued at the profeaaioDAl.eancea. There WlI8 every apparent
desire to get the oonditions named by members of the party, and to
see that results were obtained under those conditions. I had suggested in our
preliminary conversation how important it might be to get my own name-
not surname-which no one oxcept myself in the room knew. The alatea on
which we desired the writings were three of them Hodgson'., three I
had bought this evening at Lilley'., Cambridge, and oue Mr. D.'s own double
alate. I regret that desiring to add some frienda to the party, I had left the
rooma to call upon thOle friends, and during that interval, Hodgson and
Mr. Hughes being busy, we nec8lllllU'ily could not keep the alates in our eye
for a abort interval during which Mr. D. was in the room.
WeU, we commenced, I aitting all the time next to Mr. D., except on08,
when Mrs. RuueU and I interchanged plaoea, with no advantage; and so we
resumed the original order.
[f] There was full light on every corner of the table ; two of my (1) ala--.
one washed by myself, the other by Mr. D., were put very nearly in the
centre with a number of small chalk-pieces between them of difl'erent ooloura
- (five in all, I find now on inquiry from Hodgson-red, blue, green,
yeUow, white-but which I was not sure of, then, not having noticed
them).
[a] Under the table with the frame projecting on Mr. D.'s aide, waa a
aingle slate, also mine, I believe, and w&abed by I do not know whom, Mr.
D. supporting it on his aide by the four fingers underneath, and the
thumb over the table in sight of all; his left hand joining with that of Mr.
Ruuell'B right, Mr. R.'B left with Mr. Hughes' right,· Mr. Hughes' with Mr.
RuueU's, and Mrs. RuueU's left with my right, all resting either on the
table, or otherwise alwaYB in Bight; and my left supporting also the alate just
the sarue as Mr. D. Between the alate and the table were put suoceaaively
chalks and a small pencil, the chalka being cruahed, and therefore
given up.
[j] Mr. D. and Mr. Ruaaell often put their handa on the pair of single
alates.
[g] Mr. D.'s double alate, not waahed,a I believe, that I can remember,
but locked up by myself carefuUy, with the key always in my pocket or on
my RIGHT hand near Mrs. Ruuell, never out of my view, wu in my charge,
generally being behind my back.
[a] For lome time there _med to be no result, Mr. D. telling us that he
felt no .,go" in the thing,and asking me if it was not due to my undue aceptic-
ism. Of course I UBured him that my failing was rather in the reverse direc-
tion. The conversation was generally on Spiritualisticsubjects, being m08tly a
good-humoured diacuaaion of the experienC81 of some Spiritualists. On Mr.
D.'luking me to select a particular colour of chalk ~ write between the two
alates,4 I suggested white ; but we never got it.
[b] He then wished me to fix my mind on a particular number. I
selected five (5), and drew an image of it before my mental eye. The
number we got was, however, 6; and I must eay, that but for the horimntaJ.
Digitized by Coogle
Ezpenmental Investigation. 439
stroke, I myself would be unable to distinguish often between my 5's and
6's. Mr. D. then uked if there were going to be any manifestatioDB-the
&D8weri W&8 legibly " Yes."
[j] Then we' &8ked for a writing on one of the pair of alates, of mixed
colours, mine being blue, and Mrs. RU88ell's selection red. &metimu I
think we all put our handa on the pair of slaa and then both Mr. D.'s
handa were in full view, and there could be no mistake of what they were
doing,-viz., that they were shaking sometimes with great force, at the
aame time that his teeth were chattering.
[d, e] However, before any writing came there &8 aaked for, we had first a
meBB&ge on the single alate "Wait," and at another time, I noticed (without
any clear sound of writing &8 W&8 unmiatakeable during the two previous
caaea}-and I believe nobody had observed it before I drew their notice-a.
ID8811&g8 on one aide of the slate, "Try the (1) chalks."
[j] Well, now we all concentrated our attention on the pair of slates
very nearly in the centre; and I thought, &8 requested, of two numbers,
6,7; Mr. D. very shortly after a deal of shaking of his handa, at length said
that we might see the alates. There, to my surprise, I beheld a meBB&g8
forsooth, in two coloured pencils, -blue and red, which I copy below.
(Blue Pencil) : \
" Weare very pleaaed to be able to give you this writing under these
conditioDB, which must or ought at leaat to the ordinary mind do away
with the p088ibility of it being produced by ordinary me&D8.
(Red Pencil):
"If you will be kind enough to wait patiently you may rest &88ured we
will do our beat to do more for you.
" EAB.NEST. "
[c] I forgot to 88y that before this writing appeared, on the large alate,
inatead of the numbers we wanted, we got written' "Boorzu." Now this
&8 it happens is the original Persian, the modem corruption of which is my
initial name. This would be extraordinary except that it might have
happened by accident, and also I had not time enough .to see the l&8t "u"
before the word W&8 wiped off by Mr. D.
(g] Then we tried to get some results with books, but &8 it appeared to
me Mr. D. had read almost every book in Hodgaon'slibrary, it W&8 not euy
to select one to preclude the hypothesis of t;hought-tranaference. So we
attempted to get numbersagain, and I concentrated my attention on theaame
wo previous numbers(5, 7); we soon got the 7 on the single alate, but inatead
of the 5, we got "Think Book." Mr. D. desired me to think of one; my
mind wu unsettJed between The Brain aI a" Organ of Mind, by Baabiaa,
and International Law, so to avoid any interfereDce with the conditions,
I pitched upon the periodical, Mind. Mr. and Mrs. RU8l8ll having left us,
we all concentrated our attention on the double closed slate, which, on
opening at frequent intervals, we had found unwritten.· The key W&8 now
in my pocket, that is certain, for on seeking to open it, I found it entangled
with the coppers in my waistcoat pocket. The double slate W&8 also un-
doubtedly locked, for I carefully locked it myself. I mentallj',. &8 bef9r8,
Digitized by ~0081e
440 The P088ibilitiu of Mal-Observation, etc.
concentrated my attention on getting the word .. Mind" written within.
After IIOme time HodgllOn aaid he heard the lIOund of writing, and on opening
it we found the alate full. The following is the text :-
.. This phenomenon is not Spiritualistic, nor is it the projection into
objectivity through the higher facultiee unfolded by the abnormal issues of
human developruenta-'Mediumahip'1 Yee. But mediumahip of WHAT 7 Do
you think you could appreciate if we were to tell you 1 Ah no! The Spooka
of one, the Adepta of another, the tranacendental Egos of another, and the
fourth dimensions of a fourth, are but the frantic Itruggling dreama of the
dark and ignorant preaent human race who have not acquired the pouibility
of COJl'CBIVIlIG even an approximation to the real IIOlution.
.. Your own predominant deeire is to explain, but for theae and kindred
facta, it will be agee before the loftieat lIOul can touch the true tMory, 81 we
find it exhibiting no distinct changea of form, and if impoaaible with ODe or
more vibration.
.. The Brain AN organ of Mind, ha I we laugh."
This completea the text. I opened the alate myaelf, and I found IIOme
ICratchee made by the pencil over the writing. AlIlO the facet aeemed to
have worn out a little by writing. After this we made IIOme fruitleaa efrortll
at getting IIOmething, but we could not, and in a very Ihort time we adjourned.
AI the table round which we aat waa removed, HodgllOn pointed out that it
W81 beyond IUlpicioD,-a fact which I had omitted to DOtice.
[f] How came, now, the writing between the pair of alatea, and in the
cloaed double slate 1 About the former, it is certain that the alate on which
the writing came waa one of the throe I had purchased that evening at Cam·
bridge; 81 W81 atteated by ita Bize correaponding with the two othera marked,
and alIIO by the shape of the framea, and the cracka8 in them noticed by
HodgllOn. I confeBS I do not remember even after luch a brief lapae of time,
whether I had examined' the two slatea not washed by me, and found them
unwritten. I imagine I must have, for otherwiae it would be very Itupid ;
and, beaidel, if there had been any writing it. would not have eacaped the
notice of Mr. RUBBell, who aeerued to be particularly careful. Besides, we
conatantly looked to lee if there W81 any writing there. Of courae, a con·
jurer of ordinary pretensiona could deceive on the laat point. There might
be writing on the bottom IUrface of the lower alate, while we could obaerve
only the three upper IUrfacee, if 110 many. Before we aaw the writing there,
Mr. D. gave a pUSh,10 and though I am almoat lure that it W81 I who removed
the upper alate, and found the writing there, I am afraid I cannot be certain.
Indeed, I doubt if I can with any confidence &l88rt whether the writing waa
on the lower surface of the upper Ilate, or the upper IUrface of the lower
alate, even if I waa certain that it waa not on the loweat face. When I reo
member that Mr. D. il deliberately anxioul to be tried by DO other than a
conjurer's ltandard, and alao that I have omitted to notice things 110 elemen.
tary, and yet 110 eBBent.ial, even IIOme of them actually luggeated for my
obaervation by Mr. D., I regret I did Dot aak IIOrue one elae of the party to
observe and act. For it is evident that if I did not lee the llatea clean on all
the lurfacea before commencement, my teltimony becomel absolutely value-
leBS. But now IUPpose that we have aatiafactioD on theae head&, atill
it may be conaidered poBBible that the writing may be precipitated
Digitized by Coogle
Experinnental I nvesti1/ation. 441
by chemical means. Whether, if the writing disappears under the
influence of water, the chemical theory may still hold, of course I can-
not say. But if BO, it is curious that Mr. D. could pr.uh the slates at a par-
ticular moment; and before that none of us could notice, in that full light,
any formation of letters, or gradual precipitation, that I can see. Besides,
Mr. D. could barely have had time enough to tamper with the slates. He
told me himself that he had observed them lying. He had almost 40
minutes to himself, with little intervals, when Hodgson would come in. He
might during that interval have written out all the first meuage, without
using a chemical; in that caBe we &l"e all guilty of grOBB negligence which it
is ridiculous to credit my colleaguesll with. But he might have also used a
chemical; only he could not have foreseen the opportunity of my going out ;
and as everyone is supposed to bring his own slates, why he should carry
about chemicalB with him it is difficult to see. In this connection I may also
observe that Mr. D. remarked to me during our conversation after tea, how
great the temptation is for the occultist to be fraudulent; when pecuniary
remuneration is not the object, .. the good of the cause" is supposed to
justify them, and it may not be unjust to add,-the desire to make people
talk about them is not altogether a factor without influence. Just imagine
the temptation in Vanity Fair of an * * ,the guest of princes and em-
perors, and having the great honour of a recommendation from the first of
living Englishmen-Mr. * * I But it is only fair to Mr. D. to say that
he holds this justification, he say., in great abomination. As for the selection
of colours being blue and red, and turning out BO, it seems to me quite
natural, and it may not be without significance that the white writing with
chalk we asked for never came. Besides, there is nothing in the matter itself
which may not have been written beforehand, indeed it was not what we had
wanted. Now, though I point out my own defects of observation, it is only
to show how little really my testimony is worth except for points of confirma-
tion; and I hope I shall be able to remedy them next time.
[g] Somewhat different is the caBe of the double closed slate. I do not
remember it to have been washed; but there never was any writing on it
except a scratch occasionally, whenever I opened it, with the exception of the
last time. As I opened it myself I think I could easily have observed any
gradual. precipitations. The reference to " Brain as an organ of Mind .. is not
altogether without significance. It is also evident that Mr. D. must have
minutely studied the time it takes for complete precipitation; or that the
whole precipitation takes place simultaneously; or that the phenomenon
is undoubtedly genuine. The theory of mere writing without a chemical
and then bamboozling me would be really contemptible.II
[c] The reading of numbers was not a failure j but it was not convincing.
"Boorzu," however, was remarkable.
On.the whole, I myself strongly incline more towards the genuinene88 of
the phenomena than the reverse j but I cannot disguise it from myself that
that is largely due to a previous impreuion gathered from Mr. D. '. results
with others which were read out to me. If I get the same things next time
with my oum double-slate, and a pair of .lates that have never left my
sight, I think I should be justified in being convinced of BOmething
abnormal.I. Digitized by Coogle
442 Tk8 P08BibilitU8 of Mal-Observation, Icc.
2. &port of Ma. RUSSELL.
[16, Somerfield Road, Finsbury Park, N.]
On Wedneeday evening, September 15, I W&l preaent with my wife at
a alate-writing.eance given by Mr. Davey. We 88.t in the private sitting-
room of my friend Mr. R. Hodgson, at No. I, Furnival'a Inn_ Besides
Mr. Davey, Mr. Hodgson, my wife aDd self, there were present Mr.
Hughea(anothergreatfriendufmine)and .. Mr. Padahah. I had neveraeen
either Hr. D. or Mr. P. before. We 88.t round an ordinary deal table. Mr.
P. W&l on Mr. D.'a right hand, I on hiB left. On the table were 3 or 4
Bingle alatea which Mr. P. had brought with him, and a double alate fitted
with lock and key belonging to Mr. Davey.
[g] .Aa BOOn &I we were _ted at the table Mr. D. washed the double alate
with aponge and water, and then handed it round for inspection. .Aa we ex-
preBBed ounelvea 88.tiBfied that it was perfectJy clean, he placed a amall piece
of ordinary crayon inside, locked it and gave it to Mr. Padahah to keep.
Mr. P. having put it on his own chair behind hiB back,
[a] Mr. D. took one of the aingle alatea, washed it clean, put a amall
piece of crayon on it and placed it under one comer of the table, holding it
there with hia right hand (thumb in sight on the table, four fingers out of
sight below), Mr. P. holding it in the aame manner with hiB left hand.
We then joined handl and talked,lf waiting for the lOund of writing. After
lOme minutea Mr. D. brought up the alate, but there was nothing on it.
(f] He then put lOme lmall piecel of chalk on one of the other alate.
lying on the table, covered it with another alate, and laid he would try to get
lOme writing there if we would choose the colours we would like it in. Mr.
P. chose blue and my wife <at my auggestion) red.
[a] Mr. D. then replaced the single IIlate under the comer of the table.
holding it &I before, but again several minutes puaed without any result.
He then uked my wife to change placea with Mr. P., which ahe did, holding
the alate with her left hand &I he had done. But again, after several minute&,
there W&l no writing.
[b] Then my wife and Mr. P. took their old plaoea, Mr. D. once more
put the alate under the comer &I before, and uked Mr. P. to think of
lOme number under 10, 88.ying that he would try to get it written for him.
He then laid aloud: "Please 88.y whether we Ihall get anything to-uigh~"
BOOn after which Mr. P. declared he hew the lOund of writing; whereupon
the alate W&l brought up, and the word "yel" and the number .. 6" were
found upon it.16 Mr. P. 88.id he had thought of 5, but explained that he made
hiB fivel in luch a CUriOUI way that they nlight euily be mistaken for sixea.
[e] Mr. D. now 88.id that a ltart having been made, more IUCOOlll might be
looked for, 10 the experiment was repeated, the alate being brought up at in-
tervala of from 5 to 10 minutes. The first time it had the letters BOORZ 16
upon it, which Mr. P. explained were the first five letters of his Chriatian
name which W&l in Persian written BOORZU. Neither Mr. Hodgson, Mr.
Hughea, my wife, nor myself had ever hea.nl of this name before, but I did
not quite understand whether Mr. D. had or had Dot heard it from Mr. P.
before the sitting began.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Inve8tigation. 443
[a, e] Next time there was the single word " Wait," and a little later the
words "Try Chalka." We accordingly concentrated our attention on the two
_tes with the chalka between them, which had been left lying on the table.
[f] Mr. Davey and Mr. P. each placed a hand on them, and we completed
the cirele. From time to time Mr. D. opened the slates, but for a long
time there was no result.
[g] Presently he got up and went to the bookcase, saying he would try
to read BOmething from a book. He asked Mr. P. to go and choose one.
Mr. P. did 80 (taking the locked slate with him), and suggested several
books, to all of which Mr. D. objected on various grounda. Finally, how-
ever, a volume of Swinburne's poems was selected and placed on the table,
Mr. D. saying he would try to get a reference in the locked alate to any
particular page and line below 10 Mr. P. might choose. But though the
alate was opened two or three times, no writing was found on it.
[j] In the meantime, Mr. D. had once more examined the two slates
where the coloured chalka were, but finding nothing, had placed them
aide by side, and careleBBly, as if in a fit of abaent-mindedneBB, had taken the
chalks from the slate which had been at the bottom, and placed them on the
other. He had then put them together as before, except that the original
position of the slatea was reversed, the old bottom one being now at the top,
and the old top one at the bottom. Presently, asking Mr. P. if in a former
sitting with Eglinton the medium had not got IOlDe writing on his shoulder,
he took up the two slates and placed them on Mr. P.'a shoulder, but in 1_
than a minute took them off, reversing17 them as he did so, and replaced them
on the table. The old bottom slate was now once more at the bottom, and
the old top one at the top, but each slate had been reversed, BO that the two
sides which had originally been turned to the table were now turned up.
In a few minutes, Mr. D. had a IOrt of convulsion, Mr. Hodgson and Mr.
Hughes said they heard sounds like writing, the slatea were opened, and
there, on the lower one, was a meBBage, half in green,18 half in red (nearly
the colours chosen by Mr. P. and my wife), expreaaing a hope that we should
be satisfied with writing given thus, under such excellent test conditions.
Mr. P. remarked that he had asked for blue, and that the colour given was
green; and then, on being asked, said he could not see how Mr. D. could
have produced this writing by ordinary physical meanB, and then my wife
and I left.
I am writing this account without notes,19 on the moming of Friday,
September 17th. J. RUSSELL.
My wife and I have written our accounts independently, but I have
since read through hers, and find I have omitted to say that there W&8 a
good light in the room.
3. Report of Mlui. RUSSELL.
[16, Somerfield Road, FinBbury Park, N.]
I was present with my husband at a a6ance given by Mr. Davey to Mr.
Padahahat Mr. Hodgson'a rooms in Furnival's Inn, on Wednesday night, the
15th inBt.
Digitized by Coogle
444 The POBSibilities of Mal-Observat·ion, clcc.
There were IIix of us preeent. We aat round a IIDlIIll deal table, which bad
a drawer at eachlO end. The one my end W88 empty. I did not examine the
other. Two lampa were in the room, and four candles, one of which wall on
the table. Mr. Padahah aat next to Mr. Davey and I next to Mr. Padahah.
[g] He began by cleaning the in,ide of a locked Blate given him by Mr.
Davey, who having chOlen and put iMide a ,mall piece of chalk, delired Mr.
Padlhah to lock the Blate and keep it in hiB poueuion. Mr. Padahab
locked it and put it behind him in the chair he W88 Bitting in, and the key in
biB pocket.
[a] )Ir. Davey then took a IIDlIIll ordinary Blate, and a ,mall piece of IIlate
pencil with no pointl, 88king Mr. Padahah to fint clean the Blate him-
lelf on both ,idel. ThiB being done they both held the Blate under the edge
of the table with the fingen on the Blate and the thumb. on the edge of the
table. We then all joined handl, and aat talking for lOme time. Once or
twice Mr. Davey took out the Blate to examine, but found DO writing. Be
then 88ked me to change place, with Mr. Padlhah, and hold the Blate, which
I did. Once or twice he took out the Blate whillt I W88 holding it, and once
there W88 a zigzag pencil mark on it which W88 not there before, but no
writing.
[b] Mr. Pad,hah then took the ,late again. We ,till went Oil waiting,
and taking out the Blate to look at. Twice, lOme white chalk that Mr.
Padlhah had chOlen W88 cNlhed when we looked at it. Mr. Davey then
bent biB head clOle to the table and uked in a loud voice, .. Tell us if we
,ball have any manifestation, to-night or no; only one word Yes or No."
After waiting again Mr. Padshah said he heard the lOund of writing. On
looking, •• Ye, " W88 found written on the Blate. The letten were very uneven
and acrawling. Mr. Davey then asked Mr. Padahah to think of a number,
and a figure 6 wu given instead of a 6 which he had thought of. But Mr.
Pad8hah explained it by aaying that he usually made thOle figures very much
alike, and it would be ouy to confuae them.
[d, e) After waiting again the single word .. Wait" W88 found, and a
little time afterwards "Try chalks" in the lame bad writing (10 bad that
we turned it fint one way and then another to make it out) with a very
imperfect figure 8 that Mr. Padahah had been thinking of. Mr. Padahah
bimlelf diacovered tbiB laat just 88 Mr. Davey W88 putting back the alate
under the table.
[g) Nothing wu yet found in the locked alate.
[j) Mr. Davey then put in leveral pieoo, of ooloured chalks between
two BlateB which had been lying on the table all the time, with one piece of
pencil inside, and he and my hu,band placed their handl on it.
[c) On again taking up the Blate under the table, a curious word
appeared written on it which we could DOt read, written in much better
char&eten, but which appeared to me to be a foreign word. On Mr.
Padlhah'B looking at it, he exclaimed ..Why it iB my own name Boorzu,
which I am hardly ever called by I" No one at the table knew it W88 Mr.
Padahah'B name, Mr. Davey being pOIitive that he had never heard it
before, and indeed neither of us had. Mr. Padahah then reminded Mr.
Davey that he had 88ked him to 88k biB name before tea, which Mr. Davey
said he had forgotten.
Digitized by Coogle
E:tperi;mental Investigation. 445
[g] Nothing having been written between the two Blates, Mr. Davey then
saked Mr. Padahah to go to the bookcaae and choose a book. He brought
one and put it on the table, but Mr. Davey objected that it waB too big. I
think it W&8 a book of Spencer'B. Mr. Davey then went to the bookcaae with
Mr. PadBhah and helped him to choose a book, llaying it must be aamall one.
and in large print, that a good clear, large print W&8 of the most importance.
Mr. Padahah, on going to the bookcaae, took the locked alate with him.
They brought back a volume of Swinburne's poems, !'tlr. Davey opening it
here and there, and obBerving that the wont of it W&8 he knew that particular
book very well. Mr. Padahah then thought of a page under 10, but no
writing W&8 given. I then went to the bookcaae for a book, and brought back
Aurora Leigh, which, on Mr. Davey's seeing, he laid it W&8 the same &8 they
had had two or three nights before, and it would not do.
[J] He then decided to give up the book test altogether, and con-
centrated all his attention on the two slates on the table. He &8ked Mr.
Padahah and myself to choose a colour that we would have the writing in.
Mr. Padahah chose blue, and III red. There were 3 or 4, di1ferent small
pieces of coloured chalkallll in the slates. Mr. Padahah and myself then
held our handa over the BlateB with Mr. Davey and my hUBband. Mr.
Davey became very intense, llaying we mu. get BOme manifeBtations that
night. Mr. Padshah said that perhaps they would not write on the table
between the alateB, that although they had said .. try chalks," they did not
say on which slate. We waited BOme time without any result. Once Mr.
Davey put the a1atea on Mr. Padahah'B shoulder, asking if Mr. Eglinton
had not tried him in that way. He replaced them after a few seconda on the
table, and turned them over to look inside, but nothing W&8 found. At laat
Mr. Davey became more intense, and after a kind of convulsive shaking, he
turned open the slates once more, and, with BOme excitement, Bhowed us one
whole Bide covered with even good writing, half in green and half in red. I
cannot remember what it was exactly, not having taken a copy. But the
green 11'&8 BOmething about giving us a good manifestation that night, and
the red about waiting patiently. ThiB laat being in my colour, struck me
sa a ourious coincidence, &8 I had been the most impatient all the evening.
Then Mr. Padahah again unlocked the locked slate, but found nothing, and
after our waiting BOme time longer, Mr. Davey suggested we might perhaps
be too many, as he had seldom had Buoh bad results in so long a Bitting. AB
my husband and I wished to get home, we then left, it being past 10 o'clock,
and we began BOOn after eight. Mr. Davey proposed going on with the
aitting after we had left, with what results I do not know.
I am writing thiB account from memory, without notes, on Friday
evening, September 17th.
BBS8IB RUSSELL.
SITTING V.
Previous to my sitting with Mr. Block he had been informed that
my "phenomena." were not due to the agency of "spirits," and he
Digitized by Coogle
446 The P088'ibilitia of MaJ-Ob8enJatUm, &:c.
W&8 exceedingly sceptical &8 to the occurrence of any phenomena at
all under Buch conditions &8 had been described to him.
Report of MK. A. B. BLOCK.
October 30, 1888.
DuJt MR. DAVJ:Y,
Few of the pel'llODB who have witn8ll8d your extraordinaryperio~
can have done 10 with more impartial minda than I and lRy young IOn.
Allred, did. He, a youth of 16, perfectly ignorant of the whole aubject of
Spiritualiam, mediums, or psychical science, with eyea quick to diacern every
movement of hand or body ; 1, calmly observing what I .'6 withou' desiring
to theoriae or account for the BIUIle, or the way in which it w.. aoeompliahed.
Having heard of what you were doing I wu curiona to witneu myaelf
your performances, and you kindly gratified me by giving me what I auppose
you would call a ance. To my own disappointment, and I fear to your 01l'D
inconvenience and perhaps greater atrain of mind in consequence, I had but
half-an-hour with you, having to catch my laat train home.
You, my .on, and I having adjourned to the library, eat down at a emall
ordinary table with folding flaps, when you produced leveral alates and alllll&ll
folding alate with hingea and pstent lock. Giving me the latter you &liked
me to thoroughly lponge and wipe it, and placing a very lmall piece of pencil
between the two llatel, I locked them and gave the key to my IOD, aDd
placed the alate in my right hand pocket, being the aide away from you.
[«]You then handed me an ordinary alate which you requeated me alao to
welliponge and wipe and put a mark in the comer of each aido, which I did.
Then, putting a amall piece of pencil in the middle of the alate you placed
it-or alid it-under the comer of the extended flap of the table, placing
the fingen of your right hand under it, and your thumb 011 the upper aide
of the table, and your left hand on the table; I placing the fingen of
my left hand next and touching youn under the alate, and thumb on
the table, and with my right hand holding the left hand of my IOn. In
a few seconds you Aid, .. Will you uk a qU8ltion 1" when I &liked,
.. What ahall I be doing this time to-morrow night 1" In about 3 or
4 minutes a alight ICratching wu to be heard, and you slid the alate from
under the table, and only a mark of an illegible word wu to be seen.
[b] The alate was again Iponged and wiped by me, and ~n replaced by
you in the Bame poaition &I before-when you, either .. part of the per-
formance or in fun, evinced lOme impatience and demanded an IDIwer to my
question, and in a few minutea acratching w.. again heard, and on with-
drawing the alate from under the table, the word "Reading" very legibly
written. was on the alate.
[c] You then took two alatea which you handed to me to sponge and wipe
.. before, which I did, and placing 3 or 4 small pieces of coloured chalk, which
you placed between the 2 alatea, which were placed on the t.op of the table,
you asked my BOn to take a book from the bookC&l8, to think of a page
without letting you know either the book or the page thought of, and keep
the book in hiB poBI8BIIion. Then asking him in what coloured chalk the
writing should appear-he desired it Ihould be in red-you placed both
Digitized by Coogle
447
your hands firmly on the upper slate; I placed both mine, and my BOn did
the same, all of us preaaing on the slates firmly.
Waiting a few minutes, you again manifested impatience and excitement
at the little delay, when we Boon after distinctly heard a IICl'&tching between
the slates, which when looked at, the upper alate W&8 found covered with
writing, in red chalk &8 desired. The writing W&8 apparently an extract of
some kind, but unfortunately the opportunity of testing ita accuracy W&8 lost
as my BOn omitted to think of a page.
[d) Although the time at our disposal W&8 but a few minutes--a quarter
of an hour at most- you kindly performed another trick, which W&8 writing
between the locked slates. As I have said, theSe were handed to me by you at
the commencement of our Bitting, were sponged and wiped by me, a piece of
pencil placed between the two slates-locked by me, and key handed by me
to my BOn and the slates placed in my pocket, BO that it W&8 manifest you
never had any touoh or handling of these locked-up slates. Asking me to
unlook them I did BO and found them in the same condition &8 when I placed
them in my pocket. I, however, again wiped them with the sponge-you
replaced the amall piece of pencil, I locked them together again, handing the
key to my BOn, and handing you the slates thus locked. TheBe you placed
on the top comer of the table, placing both your hands upon them-I and my
son doing the same. In about 3 minutes, at moat, you began to preas
energetically upon the slates, when we heard very distinctly a alight
scratching between them. You called my attention to the BOund, lifting your
hands, called my observation to the fact that when you did BO the BOund
stopped,-being again audible when you replaced your hands. In a few
seconds taking away your hands, you &8ked me to unlock the slates, which I
did and there saw writing in a good fiowing hand-not in your style I
observed, on the whole of the upper, and on part of the lower slate. I read
the first few lineB, whioh were that it was hoped I had enjoyed the
entertainment.
I much regret my hurried departure.
In the above memorandum, I have repested I believe faithfully what
I saw. Yours faithfully,
ALFRED S. BLOOL
After receiving Mr. Block'B report I asked him the following
queBtionB :-
1. Kindly say on which Bide the writing appesred when the slate W&8
held against the table, viz., W&8 it on the lower side where my fingers were
or upon the upper Bide nearest the table; also when you grasped the slate
with me against the table do you remember if you held it firmly or not 7
2. Did I endeavour to distract your attention from the slates 7
3. To the best of your belief were the slates devoid of writing when you
examined and marked them, and did either Alfred or yourself observe the
slightest opportunity for my writing on them by ordinary natural means 7
Mr. Block replied on November 6th, 1886, as follows :-
1. The writing W&8 on the Bide of the Blate nearest the table, and &8 you
held the alate and I also held it very tightly against the under side of the
Digitized by Coogle
448 The Possibilities of Mal-Observation, J:c.
table flap, it appeared to me to be impouible for you to have touched the
pencil or that side of the slate on which the writing appeared.
2. You certainly did not appear to endeavour to distract my attention
from the slate-quite the contrary.
3. To the best of my belief and as far as the evidence of my own and
Alfred's eyea could be relied upon the slates were all perfectly devoid of
writing or marking before the performance, in addition to which as I have
said I well sponged and wiped the slates myself and marked them before you
received them from me.
I may alllO state that neither Alfred or I observed the slightest
opportunity for your writing on them by ordinary natural means.
A. S. BLOCK.
SITTING VI.
Mr. Ten Briiggenkate had discussed with me some of the literature
relating to "slate-writing" phenomena, including some controversy
concerning my own performances as "A., the Amateur Conjurer, "
but I had carefully refrained from making any statement myself con-
cerning the exact nature of my phenomena until after the sitting.
Beporl of MR. B. J. TIUf BRUOOBNJU.TE.
NO'IJe1TIJwr SOfA, 1886.
It was my good fortune to witness last night IIOme of the moat interesting
feats of what appeared to be conjuring that I have ever seen. I had
previously had several conversations with Mr. Davey upon the subject of
Spiritualism and slate-writing, and last evening when alone with him at his
house he volunteered to give me a ~ance.
The room was a well lighted library, the table at which we sat was an
ordinary IIOmewhat old-fashioned Pembroke table, and the slates used were
of the common school type, as well as one amaIl folding slate fitted with
hinges and a Chatwood lock and key.
[a] Mr. Davey gave me the locked slate and asked me to examine it care-
fully, which I did and failed to find any trick or anything of the kind about it.
The "medium" then asked me to write a question upon the slate, to place a
small piece of pencil between the two, to lock it up and put both slate and key
in my pooket. I did this in Mr. Davey's absence, he havingbeen called away,
for a moment. Mr. Davey then took one of the ordinary slates, and placing
a splinter of pencil upon it we both held it close under the table, and after a
lapse of a few minutes got IIOme writing upon it, the writing I remarked at the
time being in an opposite direction to Mr. Davey. Mr. Davey then returned
to the locked slate, tehich had been in mypocket aU fAe time, and upon placing
this slate upon the table, very faint scratching was heard, and a complete
and full answer to my question was returned. What was to me moat ex-
traordinary was, that Mr. Davey did not know what queation I had asked,
and yet the answer was definite and complete.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 449
[b) The next performance was even more wonderful. I took two common
Blatea, thoroughly cleaned them, and placed some pieces of red chalk between
them, and we kept our handa firmly upon them; in a short time faint
scratching was heard and upon lifting the top alate I found it to be covered
with writing written in a diagonal direction acroaa the alate, the writing again
appearing in an opposite direction to Mr. Davey, i.e., as we sat opposite one
another it appeared as if I had written it.
[c) The last experiment was only partially succetl8ful. Mr. Davey asked
me to choose a book from the shelves, unknown to him, and to sit upon it in
order that it should be invisible to him-then to write a number upon a
slate; I wrote "jiTJe "-then to think of a number; I thought of .. 3e1let'."
The locked slate was again put upon the table, scratching was heard, and
upon opening it I found a verse from page 8 line 4: of the book I had
chosen, written distinctly upon the slate. I wish it to be observed that I
did not fix my mind attentively upon the number" seven" I had thought of
-my attention being called off by some remarks of Mr. Davey ; also that
Mr. Davey did not know the book I had chosen, 80 that I quite fail to see
how he could produce any writing from the book. This ended the seance,
and I am at a loss to conceive how the writing can poaaibly come upon the
slate. There was not a chance of Mr. Davey being able to get at the slates
during the performance. When I placed the two open slates one upon
another with the red chalk between them, I made the remark that if writing
was produced upon either of them I should be ready to believe anytbing-
for they were covered with my hand directly they were on the top of each
other and were never moved until writing appeared.
B. J. TEN BRUGGBNIUTB.
SITTING VII.
The next two reports are independent accounts of a sitting held on
December 1st, 1886. Mr. Venner was introduced to me by a friend
in 1885, in order that he might witness one of my performances.
He had previously given the question of Spiritualism some thought,
a.nd had bf'en present at several seances given by a professed medium.
Since that time he has had frequent sittings with me, in company with
his own friends. Mr. Ma.nville and Mr. Pinnock I met for the fint
time at the sitting here recorded.
1. Report oj MR. RoBERT VENNER.
Seance, December lat.
On Wednesday, December lat, my two friends, Mr. M., Mr. P., and
myself attended a truly remarkable slate-writing seance given by Mr. D.
at his own house. Neither Mr. M. nor Mr. P. have had any previous
experience in slate-writing ~ances. I have been present at something like a
dozen of Mr. Do'. ; the first of the series must have taken place nearly a
Digitized by G~Qgle
450 fie P08sibilities of Mal-ObBervation, ttc.
year and-a-half ago. At no a4a.nce, at which I have been present, have I
heard any theory advanced by Mr. D. to account for the production of the
phenomena, and he has always strictly guarded himself from any claims to
the assistance of the supernatur&l. I collBider that this disclaimer places
him in a disadvantageous position, as compared to that of mediums claiming
similar results as the work of spiritual agency. In the fint place, it debars
him from imPOling numerous most convenient conditions on the investi-
gator; in the lacond, it deprivea him of much prestige, which cannot but
assist the perfonner; in the third, it prevents him from pre..ing into his
service bad Ipirits, atmospheric conditions, &c., &c., to account for miatake
or fa.ilure.
The room in which the a4a.nce took place is a small one, and is used aa a
library; it was well lighted by a couple of gas bumen. The table at which
we sat was of such a size that all four of us could conveniently join handa
when seated; it had two fia.ps. Before the commencement of the seance we
made a thorough inveatigation of itll under-lide. The slates employed were
all, with one exception, ordinary school onel; no Gennan parchment was
used. The exception was a handsome book-slate, cased in black wood
rellembli...g ebony, and fumished with a look. The two halves of the alato
fitted very exactly together when closed and locked. The approximate
outside dimensions were five inches by eight.
All the slates belonged to Mr. D., whom I shall in lut,ure designate as
the medium; we brought none of our own. The medium also provided a
box of crayons, mostly either red or green, a sponge, a duster, and a glass
of water.
Mr. M. objected that the contents of the glass might contain chemicals ;
we therefore had it emptied and refilled.
The order of sitting was as follows :-Mr. P. and I occupied positions on
the medium's right and left hands respecth'ely, Mr. M. sat opposite
to him.
[d] At the request of the medium, Mr. P. wrote a queation in the book-
slate (I shall call this slate A in future); he then looked it and pocketed
the key. Neither Mr. M. nor I knew the. nature of the question at the time.
The slate WIUI left for some minutes upon the seat of an ann-chair, but was
subsequently transferred fint to Mr. P.'s coat, and then to the table at
which we sat. Mr. M. suggested aside to me that we should fix a hair in such
a manner to the outside of the Blate that it could not fa.il to be broken if
the slate were opened. I thought the suggestion a very good one, but we were
not able to put it into execution, no gum being forthcoming, nor any oppor-
tunity presenting itself of distracting the medium's attention.
The medium showed and explained to us a means commonly employed
in producing slate-writing by fraud.
Ezpmment No.1. [a]
Ordinary slate taken, marked by Mr. P. and myself, and then held
beneath the table-fia.p by Mr. P. and the medium. We got no result during
the next half-hour, and Mr. P. and Mr. M. therefore changed places.
.After a considerable interval the Bound of writing audible, and the word
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental I nVeBtigation. 451
.. yes" found written; the writing was weak and straggly. As nothing
further occurred for some time, the original order of sitting was resumed.
E:eperiment No.2. [b]
The medium requested Mr. M. to next ask a question. Mr. M.'s question
was something to this effect :-" I had the pleasure of an introduction to a
lady last night, I do not know her addreBB, and I should be much obliged by
ita production." After a considerable pause the word " Marylebone "
written.
lhperim.ent No.3. [c]
Two ordinary slates taken, cleaned by us, but not marked, pieces of red
and green chalk introduced between them, the slates then deposited in front
of the medium in full view, and about four or five inches from the edge of
the tabla and from the medium's body; the medium rested one of his hands
on the upper surface of the top slate, and my hand reposed on his.
After a pause the sound of writing distinctly audible; this continued for
about 15 seconds, then the medium remarked, "What a pity I forgot to
ask you what colour you would have it in.II Mr. M. suggested green; sound
of writing continued for about five seconds longer, then ceased. On the
removal of the top slate, the bottom slate was found to be completely
covered with writing. The writing ran in diagonal lines across the slate;
the writing WIUl upside down with respect to the medium; the writing
was firm and distinct in chara.cter. The first three-quarters of the meBBage
were written in red, the last quarter in green; ita substance was as follows :-
"We perceive that you poasetI8 powers of a very high order, but you have
not done what is right for their development. SUCC8BB can only be obtained
by industry,patience, and study, and is not this true as applied to all branches
of human alfairs 1 Why should a man be entitled to the &8Bistance of
astral angeloids simply because he sits at table and thinks of nothing at
all 1 Ah, no; should you indulge in further investigation with a profes-
sional psychic.II
This is the end of the red message, the remainder is in German,
and written in green. I am not a German scholar, and I shall not give
the meBBage in the present report. I understand from Mr. P.* that in
construction and idiom it is perfectly correct. During the occurrence of
the writing, as also before it took place, I watched the medium narrowly,
but I could obtain no clue to the meana employed. As the writing had
been accompanied by some very convulsive spasms of the medium, Mr. M.
• Mr. Pinnock wrote a report, but requested me not to publish it unless it
was a correct account of what occurred. I may, however, quote the following
pasa&ge, which I believe to be aecurate, with reference to the above incident.
" At this point Mr. Davey had Mked us if we should like to have the rest
written in a different chalk (we had put a red and a green piece on the slate);
we assented. I at the same time thought to ask Mr. Davey to let the
remainder be written in German, but I did notexpresa this wish aloud. To our
great astonishment the firr.t part WM written in red chalk, and the next in
green, the green writing being in German.II This might be described as a com-
munication given to the sitter, in answer to his mental request for a language
unknown to the" medium."-S.J. D. . . .c'~ I
Digitized by~iD8 e
452 The P088ibilities of Mal-Obs6'MJatWn, Icc.
inquired if these were beyond his power to ·control. A perfectly frank
anawer in the negative was returned.
ExptJriment No.4. [d]
Tile medium and Mr. P. placed their hands upon alate A, which had
remained in light in front of the latter since the commencement of the
Mance. The lOund of writing audible almost immediately. Mr. P. opened
elate, and we found the qU8ltion he had written, together with the accom-
panying aDlwer.
Qllution. .. Give me my name in full if you can 1"
Amwer. "We are lOrry we cannot do thiI for you, Mr. Pinnock; perhaps
we may be able to do 10 later on."
The writing was firm, and distinct in character from that of BOme of thE"
other m8llll&gee.
ExptJriment No.5. [e]
The medium requested each of U& to take a small handful of chalks out of
the box on the table. Mr. P. took 11, Mr. M. Bix, and I three. The medium
diTided the three chalk. I had Belected between the other two. We had
previouBly agreed that Mr. P. 'B number should represent a page, and Mr.
M.'e number a line, oflOme book to be choaen mentally by one of the party,
the medium promising to endeavour to reproduce on the elate the line 10
determined. In the preeent case it was of course the eighth line of the 12th
page.
The medium requested me to choose a book. I accordingly left the table
and walked up to a emall C&I8 containing, at a rough gueBI, 60 volumes. I
had already selected one of theae, when Mr. M. raised the objection that,
as I was a peraonal friend of the medium, it would be a better test if the
1161ection fell either to him or Mr. P. The medium acquieaced.
The alate A was cleaned, and a fresh fragment of pencil introduced; the
alate remained in full view with one of the medium'B hands resting on it.
Mr. M. roae and noted a volume mentally. The lOund of writing audible.
The meB8&gll, on examination, proved to be an address to Mr. M., but
contained no quotation from the book he had chosen. I had not time to
make a copy of the mellll&ge in full, but the commencement was as
followa :--
.. You, who have atudied the queation of electricity, can the more
readily appreciate the wonder of these performances. We think you "---
The medium aeemed angry at the appearance of this meB8&ge, which had
no bearing on the queation asked, and expreBBed a desire that we should try
a second time. Mr. P. was therefore requeated to aelect a book.
On Mr. Manville asking the reason of the non-suCCeBI of the experiment,
he received the aDlwer " muddle" written on an ordinary alate.
»xptJriment No.6. Lf]
Mr. P. selected a volume mentally 1 without removing or even touchingit;
1 Mr. Pinnock wrote to me on December 14th, 1886 :-" In my report I
omitted to state that I selected a book mentally withoutof course tellinganyone
which onl! I had aelected."-S.J.D.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investi1Jation. 453
he then returned to his place. Two ordinary alates taken. placed together
beneath the flap of the table, and held by Mr. P. and the medium. The
elates were not apecially marked by us, but Mr. P. informed UB that the
traces of former m8Bl'ages on them offered an easy means of identification.
Writing audible. On examination the following m8BB&ge found--
.. The difference in this respect Shakeapear."
Mr. P. went up to the book-ahelf. opened the volume he had selected,
and handed it to Mr. M.,who found line 8 of page 12 to consist of the follow-
ingwords :-
Line 8. .. The difference in this reapect between Shake-tO
Line 9. "apear and Beaumont," &c., &c.
We informed the medium that he had only been partially aUCC8BBful.
Slates held a second time under the table by Mr. P. and the medium.
Words .. and Beaumont" written.
Slatea held under the table-flap for the third time. The omitted word
.. between" written, and .. Shake" instead of the whole word ShakeBpeu.
The meBBage was now perfectly correct. The character of the writing in
the above m8BB&gea was weak and atraggling.
Experiment No.7. [g]
As we were in doubt as to some of the words written in the meBBage com-
mencing "We perceive," &c., Mr. M. requested the medium to try and
reproduce them.
Two ordinary slatea taken, cleaned, and laid on the table in full view.
AlmOBt immediately the BOund of writing, and the worda .. perceive" and
" human" written. These were the words in debate. We also got the
meaning of certain German worda written, the translation of the aentence
being, "The weather will change to-morrow." Thia likewise proved to be
the correct rendering.
1kperiment No.8. [Il]
The medium tore off half a sheet of letter-paper bearing the addreaa of
his houae; this he gummed to the surface of an ordinary alate, a fragment
of lead pencil W&8 put on the paper, and the alate then transferred beneath
the table-flap, and held by Mr. P. and the medium. Writing immediately
audible. At our request the alate was expOBed before it had ceased. To the
best of my remembrance the slate could not have been beneath the table-
Hap for more than 20 seconda. On examination we found the following
m8BB&ge written in a hand which bore a much greater resemblance to the
medium'a than any of the others. Ita purport was as followa:-
•• D. has not got the myatic instrument up his aleeve or hiB left hand trouaera
pocket; we give you this information for the benefit of the SKEPTICS. We
do not profeaa to be poBBeBBed of powers out of the range of ordinary human
beings, yet we are anxioUB neverthel8B8 to show you that we can at times
give evidence of an intelligence apart from our friend D., and we ahall be
pleased ~ try any teata you may devise•
.. Mr. V., we are anxioUB to communicate with you in reference to your
relative, Sir R. * ... * although of course." ..' G I
Digitized by oog e
454 The Possibilities of Mal-Observation, &c.
Here I suppose the examination had caused the meuage to break oft"
short; a long pencil mark running from the last letter of the final word
seemed to justify this supposition.
This brought a very interesting seance to a clOl8.
In conclusion, I may remark that in addition to the before-mentioned
elate-writing s!Sances with Mr. D. I have also eat at a couple of dark seances
for materialisation. I can offer no explanation of the phenomena which
took place.
RoBBJl.T F. VBNNBJI..
2. Report of MIL E. MANVILLE.
2nd December, 1886.
My friend Mr. Venner asked me to accompany him and another friend of
his last evening to see Mr. S. J. Davey, who, he Aid, would show us BOUle
phenomena that would probably astonish UI. I willingly acquiesced, being
not only anxious to see the phenomena (of the nature of which I had been
informed), but also to try if I could in any way observe the means utilised
to produce the effects. I may mention I had not seen Mr. Davey before
this evening, neither had Mr. Pinnock (Mr. Venner's other friend), but Mr.
Venner had known him for some time.
Mr. Davey received us in a small library, probably containing some 300
[over 1000.-S. J. D.] books, and during the whole evening gave me every
assistance to examine everything used.
[d] I first of all examined a small double slate about eight inches by five
inches ; this consisted of two slates, each let into an ebony back ; the ebony
backs were hinged together on one side, and there was a hasp and lock on
the other side. When the slates were folded together and locked, the two
slates were face to face, with just enough room between them for a" crumb"
of slate-pencil locked in between them to move about freely. The slate was
washed quite clean with a. sponge and water, and dried with a cloth, and
then given to Mr. Pinnock to write a question on one side. This he did, and
then locked the slates together, retaining the key.
Mr. Davey now brought forward a table, which I examined carefully. It
was an ordinary table on four legs, with a flap on each sid'e ; it was made of
wood about half-lion-inch thick; there was one drawer under the table, which
I removed alwgether, and which was left out all the evening. After this was
done, there was nothing about the table which could conceal anything, and
had anything been concealed about the table, as far as I could see it must
have been in the thickness of the wood.
Mr. Davey then showed me some ordinary slates, in wooden frames.
These I helped him to wash and dry. We then took our seats round the
table. I was facing Mr. Davey. Mr. Pinnock was seated on Mr. Davey's
right hand, and Mr. Venner on Mr. Da.vey'sleft hand.
[d] Mr. Davey asked Mr. Pinnock to placethe locked slate under his(Mr.
Pinnock's) coat and then button up the coat.
[c] We now took three slates, on one of them we placed three
fragments of crayon, two of which were red, the other green, we
then covered up this slate with another and left them on the table in
full view.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental, Investigation. 455
[a] On the third alate we also put a piece of crayon and then held
the slate underneath one flap of the table which we put up for the purpose.
Mr. Davey's fingers were under the slate and his thumb on the table; Mr.
Pinnock's fingers and thumb were in the Banie position. Mr. Venner held
Mr. Davey's free hand with one of his hands and one of my hands with his
other. I held Mr. Pinnock's free hand with my other. 1 have omitted to
say that we all three wrote our initials in dift"erent comers of the slate before
it was put under the table. We aat in this way talking and smoking for some
time, twenty minutes to half an hour I should aay, nothing whatever
occurring. At last Mr. Davey asked me to change places with Mr. Pinnock.
This I did and thus had one of my haads on the slate. Mr. Davey now said,
that in the manner usual at aeances we would ask questions of an imaginary
being; and he said, "Are you going to do anything to night, Joey 1" After
a short pause he l"epeated the question, and then I felt the alate vibrate as if
being written on, and could hear a acratching noise ; we took the slate from
under the table-flap and aaw the word" yes" written over Mr. Venner'a
initials, and I particularly noticed that the writing was towarda Mr. Davey,
and upside down to him, and in all we aaw afterwards this was the case.
[b] I now asked a question as to the whereabout of a person at that time,
not knowing the answer myaelf; we waited for some time without any result,
when Mr. Davey asked me to again change places with Mr. Pinnock.
[d, c, g &c.] I did so, and Mr. Davey told Mr. Pinnock to place the locked
slate on the table beside the two slates we had left face to face, and we also
lifted tho uppermost of theae two slates and found the slates still quite
clean, with the three pieces of crayon between them. We again waited
some tlffie with no results; meantime, having a diacuBBion as to mediumship
of different people. and then Mr. Davey asked if I were a medium. After
a pause I heard vigoro~ acratchings on the two slates left face to face on the
table and on which Mr. Davey's arm was resting, his two hands being
engaged, one in holding the slate under the table flap, the other in holding
Mr. Venner's hand; the acratching lasted roughly under ten aeconds, and I
expected to seo a dozen words or so, and was therefore amazed to discover,
when the top slate was lifted, that the underneath alate was covered with
writing from comer to comer, and also the writing was not straight acrOBB
the slate, but was across it diagonally ; three-quarters of the writing was in
red, the other quarter in green, and no crayon 1OaSleft. We read through
the writing, a copy of which will appear in Meurs. Venner and Pinnock's
report, and found that the part in green was in the German language and
characters; about five words were illegible, and these, later on in tho evening,
we asked for, and obtained them, and still later in the evening we asked
for whom the writmg WaB intended, when my name "Manville" WaB written.
[d] Mr. Davey now put his hand on the locked alatcs which had been left
on the table since Mr. Pinnock took them from under his coat ; we heard
acratching inside. Mr. Pinnock then tQok the key from his pocket and
muocked the slate and handed it to me. I for the first time aaw the question
written in it, with an answer below; the (Iuestion was "Give me my name in
full if you can ;" thtl answer was " We are sorry we cannot do this for you,
Mr. Pinnock, perhaps we may be able to later on."
[e] Mr. Da,"ey now aaid he would endeavour to get. a srlvendm.'htn a
DI91tlzeaby \J" fU(5 t::
4056 The P088ibilities of Mal-Obsel'vatwn, ct;c.
given page of a lI'lOk written for us. Mr. Venner therefore looked over the
titlea of the bouka ranged on the ahelvea and selected one fReRt4Uy. without
touching it with his' hands j at this moment I suggested it would be better if
I were to select the book,&I I did not know Mr. Davey atall,whilat Mr. Venner
did. Mr. Daveyacquieaced. I selected a title in order to decide what line and
page we should select. I took a pinch of craYODl from a oox, Mr. Pinnock
doing the lI&I1le. On counting, mine came to 6, Mr. Pinnock's to 11, Mr.
Venner's came to 3. Mr. P. and I dh'ided Mr. V.'., making mine 8, and
Mr. Po's 12, 10 we decided that. it should be p. 12, line 8. We
then w&lhed the locked elatea clean, locked them, Mr. Pinnock retaining
the key. Mr. Davey placed his hand on the alatea, and acratching 11'&1 heard
for a few seconds j on the elate being unlocked by Mr. Pinnock and handed
to me, I found it 11'&1 full of writing of a di1ferent charact.er from that we had
seen before j it conaiated of an appeal to either Mr. Venner or myaelf, asking
if one who _ acquainted with electricity could fail to appreciate the
difticulty of producing phenomena such &I we were witneaaing that e\'ening j
unfortunately the slate W&l w&lhed before we had taken a copy. The writing
in this cue 11'&1 not diagonal, but straight &crOll the alate j it started aoout
a quarter of an inch from. the top of the alate, went right down to the
oottom, then 11'&1 continued round one side and finished up in the quarter of
an inch left at the top of the alate, with two linea written'~ dotct., and
11'&1 signed with the initiala T. P., I think. This 11'&1 interesting to UI, but
Mr. Davey 11'&1 vexed we did not get the line out of the book written, and
10, placing the slate under the table flap, he asked the reuon j the word
" muddle" was written, and we apprehended it 11'&1 on account of Mr.
Venner and myself both having chosen a book j we therefore thought it
would be best for Mr. Pinnock, who knew Mr. Davey no better than I, to
select another book.
[fJ This he did. We w&lhed the two elates, laid them face to face on the
table, when the following worda were written: "The di1ference in this
I't'spect... Mr. Pinnock now took down the book he had selected from
the shelf, and handed it to me; I opened it at the 12th page and looked
at the eighth line. I found the first two worda completed a sentence;
then came the five worda aoove, and then two more to finish the line.
I said the written worda were right, but not complete. The slate 11'&1
covered again, and three more words were written: "Shakeapel\re and
Beaumont... On looking at the oook I found Shakeapeare W&l the 1ut word
in the line, the other two being in the next line. I laid a word 11'&1 still
miaaed out. The elates were put together again, and two more words written.
On looking at the book thelle turned out to be the two words terminating
the l&lt sentence. I said there 11'&1 still the word milling, and this time the
word .. between" 11'31 written, making the sentence complete: "The
difference in this reapect between Shakelpea1'8 and Beaumont." I then
aaked for the last word in the line by itself, and this 11'&1 written "Shakea,"
which W&I correct, &I Shakellpeare W&I half on one line and half on the other.
The name of the book W&I Lutuf'u on Shakupeare, cl:c.
[g] We next &lked another question, and this time had the aDlwer
written on the 'UndemeaU, lide of the upper slate instead of on the 'Upper side
of the 'UtuUmeath alate.
Digitized by Coogle
Experinnentcil Investigat-iffn. 457
[h] Mr. Pinnock asked if we could not get the writing on a piece of paper
instead of the slate. Mr. Davey said we might try, and thereupon tore
a sheet of writing-paper inttJ two, and pasted one half on to a. slate by the
four comers; he cut oft' a small piece of black lead from the end of a pencil,
put it on the paper and covered the slate with anoiliAr sla.te. Writing was
heard at once, and we separated the slates and found the pa.per written over
diagonally &8 in the ca.se of the first slate. The paper 11'&8 not, however, quite
full, and it looked &8 if the slates were separated too soon, &8 the sentence
1nI8 not finished. The writing was evidently written with the point of the
pencil.
[i] Mr. Davey 11'&8 now very tired, but he oft'ered to try one more experi-
ment. A slate 11'&8 raised on two glass blocks above the table. on top of the
slate 11'&8 placed a piece of crayon, and over the crayon W&8 inverted a glass
tumbler. Mr. Da.vey &8ked me what figure the crayon should draw. I said a
t;riangle. We all joined hands and watched the crayon through the glass. After
a few minutes, the crayon not having moved, Mr. Davey placed a slate under
the table and &8ked if it would move, when the auswer "No" 11'&8 written, and
we then finished our evening's experiments.
I have endeavoured in this report to merely give an account of what I saw,
and not to give any attempt at an opinion &8 to the way in which the pheno-
mena were produced j but this I may say, that it appea.rs to me exceedingly
improbable that electricity, &8 we at present understand it, 11'&8 used.
Everything occurred under full light and between the hours of 9 p.m. and
1.30 a.m. E. MANVILLE.
DSAB MR. DAVEY,
I received your note yesterday just before leaving town. The
writing always appeared on the upper side of the slate held against the table-
flap j also the pencil 11'&8 in every ca.se, I noticed, at the end of the writing
and decidedly worn, and in one or two ca.ses, I recollect, on the l&8t stroke.
Will you kindly add this to my report.. E. M.
llthlJecember, 1886.
Oxford.
SITrING VIII.
My object in giving these seances has not been so much to "defy
detection" as to enable some estimate to be formed concerning the
possibilities of mal-observation and lapse of memory under certain
peculiar conditions. Hitherto I have never refrained altogether from
producing .. phenomena" merely because I was afraid that the witness
might discover my methods, although I have on several occasions given
blank seances to persons who had already witnessed my phenomena.,
and whom I had no reason to fear. At the commencement of the
sitting I saw that Mr. Dodds was an investigator who was justly
entitled to a blank. seance, and his account therefore is particularly
interesting from the fact that notwithstanding his keenness, he failed
to dett>ct my real modus operandi.
Digitized by Coogle
458 The Possibilities of Jfal·Observation, J:c.
Report of MR. J. M. DODDS.
12, Mitre Court Chamben, Temple, E.C.
DEAR MR. HODOSON,
19th. Dtcember, 1886.
I now send you a report of our seance as I promised, for publi-
cation or not, j08t as you please.
011 Mr. Davey's kind invitation I accompanied you last night to his
hOO8a at Beckenham. There we dined, talking of telepathic and hypnopathic
symptoms and similarsubjects. I ought to say that my attitude W&8 that of
one totally aceptical regarding "spirits," very IUBpicioul of trickery, and
only in the faintest degree open to conviction that BOme quasi-explanation
for the strange phenomena of which I had heard is to be found in the
hypothesis of a new force or medium of tranBmiBBion. I had never before
(as I told Mr. Davey) attended at a ~ance. I had, however, lOme hearsay
knowledge of his wonderful performances. But I did not know his point of
view-i.e., whether he professed to act through" spirits" or otherwise; and
although I tried to discover thiB, hie answers and yours were so vague that I
could not make sure. I inclined, when the s~nce began, to the opinion that
Mr. Davey was a "believer," but was somewhat reassured &8 to his bona.ftdu
by hiB professed inability to imitate a simple conjuring trick which you
showed 08, and by hiB reminding me of lOme precautions which, in my inex-
perience, I was neglecting. Lastly, I am bound to say that although &8 Mr.
Davey's guelt I felt a little shy of showing my suspicions, I thought it all
the more desirable to keep a close watch. Thie I W&8 able to do as the room
was well lighted throughout the evening.
I. The dinner-table was cleaTed and wheeled aside, and an uncovered
ordinary Pembroke table was brought in. You and Mr. Davey left the room
while I wrote a simple question in a small double slate belonging to Mr.
Davey, which I carefully inspected, locked and kept within sight. The
three of 08 then sat down at the Pembroke table, which we had examined. I
unsealed a packet in which I had brought three new school slates; Mr.
Davey chose one of them, which he and I, after making lure it was blank,
held, in the manner to be described, under the comer of one of the extended
table-flaps, with a small piece of pencil lying on its upper surface between
slate and mahogany. The locked slate with the question inside was laid on
the table-I had not let it paBs out of my sight. Mr. Davey sat at a
comer, his right hand and my left meeting on the under surface of the slate
below the table-flap, while you, sitting opposite him, held hie left and my
right hand in yours. The problem as explained to me was: Given my
question known to me alone; required an answer to be written upon my
blank slate in position under the table, and to appear through some
unexplained agency upon its upper surface where the chip of pencil lay ; the
answer either to give the information demanded, or at least to Ihow know-
ledge of the question.
For several minutes we sat thus, either in silence or discUBaing psychical
topics. Mr. Davey professed to expect no great success with me, anq you
reminded him of several ~ances which, after bad beginnings, had ended
successfully. I asked some questions about the. quali_ re~uired in the
Digitized by ~OO~le
Experimental Investigation. 459
litter, and. BI before, received answers that did not enlighten me regarding
Mr. Davey'l ltandpoint, and therefore increued my vigilance.
No "phenomena" were forthcoming. At my reqU8lt the llate (which,
while underneath, I, of course, alwaYI pre8lled fiat againlt the table) WBI now
tr&naferred to the top IUrface of the table, another was placed over it, and
the pencil chip remained between, and Mr. Davey aud I laid our handa upon
the upper slate. No more IUCceU than before.
The conditions were lublequently twice varied. Firat my alate was
reatored to ilie original position under the table (said to be the uaual one for
preliminary manifestations), but with the atipulation on my part that I should
keep it pre8lled against the flap with knee as well as hand; afterwards,
deserting my alate altogether, we laid our handa upon the locked double
alate containing the qU8ltion,-but all iu vain.
Finally, when more than an hour had pasaed. two of my alatea, examined
and found blank, were laid together, pencil between, and placed in position,
like the aingle slate in the first effort, againlt the lower lurface of the fiap-
our handa alao remaining as at firat. Very soon IICratching WBI hea.rd
although I could detect no movement with my eyea, hand, or knee : and,
when the Slatel were brought to light, written upon the upper surface of the
lower slate was the word .. Y8I." Now, as my question had been, " Where
did I buy my slatea 1"1 was not much struck by an answer that did not
apply, and might have been written by.BOme quite conceivable piece of jug-
glery ; and my doublie were increBled when I found upon the other side of
the lBme slate, and therefore on the surface (such was my belief) where Mr.
Davey's hand had r81ted, the word" Wait." I Wlloll, therefore, very little
impr81aed by this result; and indeed, rather. to my surprise, neither Mr.
Davey nor yourself seemed to expect me to draw any concluaion from it.1
A subiequent experiment-in which I repeated my first qU8ltion, carefully
expunged from the double alate and still unknown, except to myself-·upon
one of the open slates, came to an abortive ending through Mr. Davey's
catching sight2 of what I had written.
II. After an interval, Mr. Davey, who acknowledged that he was not in
a good frame of mind for " manifestations," was induced by you to try the
.. book" experiment. This was explained to me to consist in my mentally
choosing from the books, which, to the number of, I should gU888. about700,
[1000] lined the room, anyone with a clear title ; I was then to take twice over
a handful of fragmenlie of slate-pencil from a box on the table, privately
count each handful before repl8!ling the fragmenlie, and keep the resullie to
myself: the first reBult Wlloll to represent the number of a page of the book
chosen, the second the number of a line on that page; Mr. Davey, yourself, and
I were to lay our hands upon his double slate, laid upon the surface of the table
after being examinoo, found blank, and locked with pencil-chip inside by
me; I was to concentrate my thoughlie upon the book and numbers and l\lr.
Davey was to try to disJover (by BOme mode of thought-transference, I
inferred) book, page, and line: the pencil locked inside the slate was then
to write BOme words quoted from the place thought of !
The preliminary programme was carried out, and I may say that while
choosing the book I took care to walk right round the room and not to let
my ey8l1inger on anyone spot. Thus the problem was: Given arhnok. .Rfi.6
Digitized by~DU(5''-
460 The Possibilitia of ~lJal-Ob8ervation, ,I·c.
and line known only to me and recorded nowhere-required to be written
in a blank locked slate lying under our hands the correaponding quotation,
which, be it observed, was unknown Ht'U to me, for of course I had not.
touched, much leu opened the book.
This appeared hllpouible by any amount of jugglery, and I could
acarely take the attempt seriously. We aat. down, however, and laid our
aix handa upon the alate. I concentrated my mind with the utmOlt intensity
at my command upon book, name, and numbel'll, and lOOn Hr. Davey
appeared to labour under lOme excitement., and, to my diaguat., began (with
an explanation that it was the custom) to invoke lOme unseen agents in lID
appealing tone. Presently, to my relief, he deaiated, and the attempt. was
given up as a failure. Mr. Davey said he could not decide between two boob.
After a short rest it was suggested that I should name the book, aDd
that the experiment should be resumed in a modified form. The problem
W&l now: Given a certain book, viz., Taitle on IntdligellCfl3; required to be
written in a blank locked alate,lying under our handa, a quotation unknown
to anyone present, taken from a page and line known only to myaelf. The
hook, of course, remained untouched on the shelf. We sat as before with
ttle alate under our handa and eyea. I concentrated my thoughts. Mr.
Davey lOOn appeared to reach a high pitch of exaltation; his arms and body
became subject to a violent "JriM'ntt.ement." He again appealed to hia
ghUltly helpera, and on this occuion his efl'orta were rewarded, for, in a few
minutes, to my utter amazement--Mr. Davey's hands and your own being
well in sight and unemployed-I heam BOunda of writing within the alate
which continued for half a minute or more. On unlocking the alate I found,
legibly written, a quotation, almOlt, but not quite, verbally correct, from
page 16 of Taine's book, beginning at. the eighth line. Some" clear-
obscure" remarks, which I at once interpreted as relating to a friend of
mine, followed.
I had thought of the eighth line of the 28th page. The correapondence
was, therefore, not exact, the line only being correct. What struck me,
however, was not the coincidence of the quotation, nor the gibberiah about.
my friend, which hinted information ouily ascertainable by anyone who,
like Mr. Davey, had met hhn-it W&l the occurrence of what the evidence
of my senaes told me was writing by a piece of inanimate pencil inside a
locked slate, with no conceivable means of explanation 1 For a moment I
confell I W&l completely staggered ; my notiona of cauaation were turned
toply-turvy; visions of "magnetic force" and "occult action" danced
before my brain. Then came the reaction; but inatead of accusing my
seDlOl of perjury, I illustrated human nature by telling you in plain Engliah
(during a momentary absence on Mr. Davey'S part) what opinion I had
formed of him. I regret to think I used the word" humbug"; none coald
be lell applicable !
I had not just then much desire to continue the Mance; butyou aeemed to
desire it., and &I I recovered from my bewilderment, one or two alight circum-
stancOl-Qne of them Mr. Davey's half acquieacence in a suggOltion that he
should try to obtain writing without any pencil 8aMwiched in tk aatu-
occurred to me u confirmatory of my notion that he had been alate-shaming
in lOme very clever way. So I uked hhn point-blank,.... you 'iDmember,
Digitized by ~008le
E~ntal Investigation. 461
what was his theory ; he answered that he does not 10 far profeBB any theory,
but merely undertakes a close imitation of the phenomena attributed by
believers to spirits. 1 had not quite realised this before, and was now for
the first time able to appreciate Mr. Davey's standpoint-though no less in
the dark as to his method. We seemed, as you afterwards remarked, to
"have an understanding" from this time; and with my good temper I
recovered my vigilance.
III. The last experiment consisted in my writing a question &8 at first in
the locked slate, to be answered by writing produced between two of my
plain school slates by chips of pencil; the slates ha,·ing, of course, been
examined and found blank as usual. The slates were laid upon the table-
top, and except that I had unintentionally changed my seat to your former
one opposite Mr. Davey-you taking mine in exchange-the conditions were
as before. We laid our hands on the upper slate, but after several efforts
no result was obtained. We were proceeding to make another trial, and
Mr. Davey, in the act of displa.ying the slates to show that they were still
blank, made a remark to you which had the effect of causing me to look at
you; just then, more by accident than design, I noticed that before
replacing the upper slate upon the lower one he reversed its position.
Seizing it at once, I found one of its sides--that which would have been
undemeath-covered' with an inscription which I certainly had not seen or
heard written, and which in my delight I forgot to read. Evidently the
next effort would have been the SUCC8BB of the evening !
The game was up ; at least you and Mr. Davey chose to think so, for you
at once let me into the secret of the great Psychical Plant. I don't profeBB
to understand Mr. Davey's modtl.'J operandi i but of this I am certain, that
I have to thank you for an introduction, not to a world whel't1 the rules of
nature are superseded, but to a most surprising exhibition of sleight of
band.-Yours very truly, JAMBS M. DoDDS.
SITl'ING IX.
I had never seen either of the writers of the following accounts
until the day of the sitting, but I understand that they had already
learnt beforehand that what they were about to witness was un-
questionably due to conjuring.
1. Repm-t of MR. A. B. T.
Monday,
DBAR MR. DAVEY,-
Grosvenor-place, S.W.
I am just writing a small account of what I saw you do last
Thursday night (as you requested), at Mr. T. B.'I house, when I had the
pleasure of meeting you, and witnelling your wonderful feats of
llate-writing. The following is as near as poBBible what took place, by
memory: We, a party of five (exclusive of yourself), were lit~g in the
Digitized by l::.oog e
462 The P088ibilitie8 01 Mal-Ob8enJation, 4:c.
drawing-room, round a plain deal table with ft&pa. which had been brought
from the kitchen. You provided three ordinary alatee and a unall hancbome
lock.up slate with a lock and key. There was also a 1p0ng8, cloth. and gJa.
of water on the table, with which I cleaned the aIatea. The fint thing you did
was to give me the smalllock·alate to examine, and having allured myaelf
that no trickery existed in it, I cleaned it and placed a unall piece of colound
pencil on it, locked it up, and put it in my pocket. The key I placed in my
waiatcoat pocket.
[a] You then took a point of pencil and laid it on the table, over which
you placed one of the common alatee which I am poaitive I had thoroughly
lponged and wiped. We joined our handl, and you and I placed oura firmly
on the llate. You asked your Ipirit-friend "Joey," if he could give UI any
help, and very lOOn after an extraordinary lOund of acratching wu heard
under the llate. Upon raiaing it. the following appeared in large bold lettera
right acroll it: "All right; here we are again. Hurrah l--.1oey." Thia wu
very aatisfactory, and "Joey" worked very hard to anlwer UI afterwardL
[c] For you next held a alate with a lmall piece of pencil upon it under
the tJap of the table, and wished a queation to be asked. In reply to mine,
as to when my train would arrive at Victoria, the reply came very 10011.,
" Wait."
[d] This waa not conaidered a lufficient BIlIwer from the [Ipirit 7] world.
10 you quickly rubbed the alate, and immediately held it ~ under the flap
of the table. We waited lOme time. and then got lOme writing aa before.
.. No chal,..... and on looking at the alate I aaw you had forgotten to
place the chalk upon it. It waa expecting too much of "Joey" to write
without a chalk.
[I] You then took two llatea, which I once more wiped clean, and placed
them one upon the other on the table, with a tiny piece of pencil between
them. Thore was a very Bhort wait, and then the lOund of quick writing
was heard. Thia lasted for nearly a minute. Upon raiaing the alate, upon
the top one was written as folloWB:-
"Dear FriendB,-It ia not 10 much the agency queation we would have
you aet your mindl upon, as it is the mere fact that the phenomena take
place under conditioDl which upon every reasonable mind preclude the
p/Juibility (1) by known rational meana. You may reBt allured we shall do
all in our power to co·operate with you this levening ; we mUlt, however,
ask you to have patience, as we can't carry out any testa or anlwer any
queBtion until we have become more In rapport with one another. Rest
_ured and we will do our btllt, and remember Der Teuft'l ia zu zwart nit
alB hig wei geachildered.-Joey."
[J] We next experimanted with the llate which I took from my pocket.
You asked me to chooae a book from the bookcaae, and one of the party to
think of the page and line. I went to the bookcaae, and could not make
up my mind between three or four, and finally took Virgil'B Aeneid. The
alate was placed on the table, and "Joey" was again aaked to write a paaaage
from the aelected book (in any coloured chalk I liked). Again the
scratching of the pencil was heard upon the slate. When it was opened, the
piece of chalk was nearly worn away, and reated upon the last word of the
following: •• We should prefer that when you experiment for teata, such ..
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 463
the one you now propose, that you should fonn a smaller circle, and devote
yourself exclusively to this one fonn of phenomena, and although it is not
impoaaible we may succeed to-night, yet we are greatly hampered by the
co-operation of too many minds. We have no objection to try the tumbler,
although we don't guarantee a -- ERNBST."
This W&B the lut experiment tried, aa time·drew on, and I wanted to
catch my train back to town. As to that part of the test relating to the
paaaage chosen from the book, it failed.
I waa very BOrry to see you in such weak health, and the excitement
under which you laboured showed plainly that the mental strain upon you
must have been great. I noticed upon every occaaion of the writing
appearing you trembled and shuddered aa if under great nervous preBBure,
but why this should be, if, aa you say, these manifestations are only the
result of trickery and conjuring, I do not know. At all events, you have
mystified me entirely. I do not believe in spiritual manifestation in the
laaat, but how you manage to bamboozle BO many people I can't make out.-
Believe me, Mr. Davey, sincerely yours, A. B. T.
2. RqJort of MISS M. T. B.
Whilat staying with my uncle at Beckenham I had the good fortune to
meet Mr. S. Dav9Y, and to witness BOme of his interesting manifestations. I
had heard of his wonderful powers, and waa therefore very pleaaed when I
learnt that he had accepted my uncle's invitation, and had volunteered, after
dinner, to show UB some of his experiments.
We were five in number, and were seated round an ordinary deal table,
which had previously been carefully examined so as to preclude any
pOBBibility of trickery.
Before commencing the stiance, Mr. Davey produced a book-alate, care-
fully cleaned it, and gave it to one of our friends, aaking him to place a
small piece of pencil in it, lock it up, and put it with the keylinto hiB
pocket. There it remained until later on in the evening it waa:required
for use.
[a] Our first experiment waa with an ordinary achool slate. Mr. Davey
placed a piece of chalk on the table, sponged and wiped this slate perfectly
clean, and placed it upon the chalk. We all joined hands, Mr. Davey rest-
ing his upon the slate. After a few minutes a faint acratching waa heard,
and on being examined, the alate waa found to have written upon it in good
bold characters, .. Hurrah, here we are again, Joey." This seemed to me
most wonderful, u all the time Mr. Davey's hands were visible.
[b] Next, Mr. Davey placed a piece of chalk upon a slate, and put the
slate under the table, supporting it with his right hand. After listening for
some little time, we again distinctly heard a faint scratching, and in answer
to the question whether we should have any manifestations that night, we
found the answer, .. Yes."
[c] Again a question W&B aaked aa to the time of the departure of the
laat train to London Bridge, and in reply we found .. Wait" written UPOll
the alate.
Digitized by Coogle
464 The P088ibilities of Mal-Observation, tl-c.
[e) Mr. Davey then volunteered to produce writing in two cillrerentJy-
coloured challu, and the two aelected (blue and white) were placed between
two ordinary slatee. Again we joined handa, Mr. Davey resting his, as
before, upon the slates. After waiting for BOme little while (in this case
longer than previously) the scratching was heard, and upon examining the
alate, it was found to be covered in writing, half being in blue chalk. the
other half in white.
(J] Mr. Davey now asked for the book-alate, and requested one of our
friends to think of two numbers, then to aelect a book from the book_.
taking care to keep the title of the book well in his mind. Mr. Davey pro-
posed to produce the quotation from the chOlen page and line of the book.
enfortunately, with this trick there was a little mistake, as ourfriend glanced
at aeveral boob before aettling which he would linally chooae, and the quota-
tion consequently was not produced. Instead of the quotation, BOme advice
was found to be written. I do not doubt that this failure was caused by the
want of concentration I)f mind upon the ohOlen book. With this trick I was
partioularly struok with the fact that there was a visible diJferonce in the
size of the ohalk when placed upon the slate and when it waa uamined
after the writing had been produced, and also the remainder of the chalk
was disco"ered at the end of the lut word written; boLh theae facta seemed
to me to prove that the writing was produced by the chalk alone, and by no
other aeoret agenoy.
SITTING X.
The following report is by a Japanese gentleman whom I had met
once previously, and who attrihuted sundry phenomena of .. mediums,"
which had been discussed, but which he had not personally witnessed,
to the action of some new unrecognised force.
Report O/MARQUIS Y. A. T.
[a] On January 24th, 1887, I had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Davey's slate-
writing performances in hie private room. He lint removed a table, which
was in the comer, into tho midrlle of the room, and brought two common
elates, one double·slate which 08n be locked, a eponge, a box of chalk.. and
a glaas of ordinl\ry water. Then he told me to examine and eponge and wipe
them thoroughly; 10 I did, and put lint the common elate, a piece of chalk
being under it, and put our hands on it; a faint BOund of scratching was
heard. When the BOund had ceased, Mr. Davey turned it out as f01l0WB :
(No.1) was written on it.
No.1.
"Japaneae is very diffioult language to write, but we will do our best. We
are sorry not to see Baron - - this evening, pleaae give him our kind
regards.-JoBY."
[b] Next I locked the double-alate (small piece of ohalk was put in it),
and laid before him, and we put our banda on it while I waa holding
Digitized by Coogle
E~ntal Investigation. 465
the key in my hand. .As lOOn as the scratching sound had ceased
I unlocked it and found such words as follow:-
No.2.
"A student like yOI11'/l81£ will easily undentand the importance of this
writing, which, as far as the senses are able to judge, would appear to be of
a supernatural character. This,however, is not the case. In order to prove to
you that we are above ordinary conditions of conjurers, and also demonstrate
the absurdity of writing being produced by chemical action we are willing to
carry out any test you may suggest which would serve to dispel such a theory
from those who have not witnessed these performances."
[c] Again I put another common slate on the table and we put our hands
on it. In turning it we found a Japanese but really ChineBe character
was written.
No.3.
A Chinese letter *. This letter is alBo used in Japan because the
Japanese are UBing the Chinese characters. In Japan this letter is used as a
verb, and means .. to be scattered" or " to be dispersed." It is pronounced
&< Chinu " in Japan.
[d] Once more I locked the double-slate (this time I put white and blue
pieces of chalk in it), and put the key in my pocket and even sealed it
myself. In opening it I found a letter in Japanese character was written
and also an English as followB :-
Digitized by G~ile
Digitized by Google
DI91tlzedbyGoogie _
A
468 The P08sibilities of Mal-Ob8ervation, &c.
A.
Hai tei Ihikareba taikei go-aeiko no dan haruka ni gui tatematauri 101'0
Bate wa * * * ko ni wa iksga wata.raaerare 8Oro yo. uaei mo kanete shihO no
ki-koku ye tokai taukamatauri 10ro kokoro-gumi ni gom soro aida tOkaraz
haibi banru kaiBhin taukamatauru beku madzu, wa yoken made sOso fagu (in
Japanese character, with white chalk).
Japanese, when translated, relates to my friend Prince * * * in Japan,
and it a.lao means it is pleued to give me writing in Japanese.
B.
We don't like this coloured chalk to write it u it is not short enough. Try
smaller piece next time. -JOEY.
This performance wu more than wonderful, and I could not see how any-
thing could have been written. But I hope I will have an opportunity to
learn about this by reading Mr. Davey's excellent work on this subject. I
had uked for writing to come in blue colour, and writing in blue English
colour is an excuse for not doing 80, I suppose. Y. A. T.
SITTING XI.
Mr. H. W. S., the writer of the following record, was a comparative
stranger to me, as I had met him on only one previous occasion. He
requested me to give him a seance, as he had heard of my performances
from some of his friends who are well-known to me. Previous to the
sitting I informed him, as I have also informed many others, that my
phenomena. were not to be accounted for by the "Spiritua.listic"
theory.
Report of Mr. H. W. S.
Febrllary 11th, 1887.
After the very interesting scientific phenomena to which I wu an eye-
witneBS lut night, it gives me much pleaaure to detail the various utonishing
feats displayed by Mr. Davey [v. Clifford.]
The apartment in which I was received wu a well-stocked library, and
the furniture, including the table at which we sat, wu of the ordinary make
and style, with none of the intricacies 80 necessary to the every-day conjurer j
and I am convinced that the furniture of the room and ita general surround-
ings played no part whatever in the accomplishment of the facts which ~am
going to narrate.
Having produced a small book-slate, Mr. Davey uked me to examine it,
and to satisfy myself u to ita simplicity of construction, &c. I did 80 ; the
slate wu composed of two ordinary pieces of slate, about six by four inches,
mounted in ebony covers hinged on one side with two strong plated hinges,
and closed in front, beyond the question of a doubt, with a Chatwood'.
patent lock.
izedbyGoogle
Experimental Investigation. 4.69
With the exception of a small escutcheon, bearing the initials of the
donor, the slate was plain and substantial, and bore the strictest inspection,
so as to entirely preclude the idea of chemicals or any other similar agent
being used to it.
[a] After I had finished examining the slate,Mr. Davey asked me to write
in the slate any question I liked while he was absent from the room. Picking
up a piece of grey crayon, I wrote the following question: " What is the
specific gravity of platinum 1" and then having locked the slate and
retained the key, I placed the former on the table and the latter in my
pocket.
After the lapse of a few minute8 I heard a distinct sound as of writing,
and on being reque8ted to unlock the slate I there discovered to my great
surprise the answer of my question: .. We don't know the 8pecific gravity,
JOBY." The pencil with which it was written was a little piece which
we had enclosed, and which would just rattle between the sides of the folded
slate.
Having had my hand8 on t.he slate above the table, I can certify that the
slate was not touched or tampered with during the time the writing was
going on.
[b] Next; having taken an ordinary scholar'8 8late and placed a fragment
of red crayon upon it,Mr. Davey placed it under the ftap of the table. I held
one side with my hand as before. I tbon heard the lIIUIle BOund as previou8ly,
and when the slate was placed on the table I found the following short
address distinctly written: "Dear Mr. S--,-The substitution dodge is
good ; the chemical is better, but you see by the writing the 8pirit. know a
trick worth two of that. Thi8 medium is honest, and I am the only true
J OBY. " The writing was in red crayon, and was in regular parallel 8traight
lines.
[0] Then, again, Mr. Davey requested me to place a small fragment of
alate-pencil in the lock slate, which latter had been previously cleansed
with 8ponge by me. Respecting the method of closing the slate, &c., every-
thing was done as in thefir'" instance ; the slate was locked, and I retained
the key.
Aa soon as the BOund of writing was over, I picked the slate from oft' the
table, where it had been lying right under my eyes, unlocked it, and read as
follow8 : .. Weare very pleased to be able to give you this writing under
these conditions, because with your 8pecial knowledge upon the 8ubject you
can negative the theory of antecedent preparation of this slate as advanced
by certain wiseacres to explain the mystery.-' JOEY.''' The fact that the
pencil when removed from tbe interior of the slate had diminished in size
and showed distinct traces of friction, convinces me that it was the pencil
and nothing else which produced the caligraphy. If the particles taken from
the pencil by friction did not go on the 8Urface of the slate, where could
they go 1
[d] Laatly,as requested by Mr. Davey, I took a coin from my pocket with-
out looking at it, placed it in an envelope and sealed it up. I am certain that
neither Mr. Davey nor myself knew anything about the coin. I then placed
it in tbe book-slate together with a piece of pencil,closed it as previousl:r and
deposited it on the table; and having placed my hands with those of Mr.
. Digitizedby~P8le
4070 The PoBBibilitie8 of Afm-Observation, d:c.
Davey on the upper lurface of the 1Ilate,waited a Mort time. I then unlocked
the Ilate u reqU8lted, and to my inteDle amazement I found the date of the
oein written, by the lide of the envelope containing it.
The I8&l and envelope (which I have DOW) remained intact:
Thillut feat utonilhed me more than the othen, 10 utterly impouible
and abnormal did it appear to me. I may alIo mention that everything
which W&I UIed, including the cloth and lponge with which the llatel were
cleaDled, were eagerly and thoroughly ICrutiniled by me, and I failed
to detect anything in the lhape of mechanilm of any kind. Were I
ICeptically inclined toward. Spiritualilm, I Mould have attributed the
feat! I witn8lled to it, but I am convinced from the bond foU manner
in which Mr. Davey proceeded to perform biB mYiterioulI writing,
Spiritualiun plaYi no part in it whatever. Were I uked to account
for the method by which the writing wu done, or rather to advance
any theory hued upon which it would be pouible to produce Buch
phenomena, I should luggeBt a powerful magnetic force Uled in a double
manner, i.Il., lat. the force of attraction, and 2nd. that of repuillion.*
But Mr. Davey hu by great perseverance and Rudy cultivated his
lCientific Becret to luch an extent that were it magnetilm, electricity.
pneumatiCl,or anything eIBe, it would baftle the mOlt ICCOmplished in any of
thOle brancheB of lCience to form even an approximate idea of his mod,"
optrandi.
SITTING XII.
Mr. Henry Hayman was introduced to me by Mr. H. W. S., the
writer of the preceding report. In connection with this Bitting I may
observe that not only is it commonly the case that witnesses believe
themselves to have taken precautions which they did not take, but that
they also frequently omit to record precautions which they did take.
In the present instance, for example, Mr. Hayman suggested during
one experiment that it might be said that I produced the writing by
means of mechanism connected with my knees; I thereupon desired
one of the sitters to look under the table during the continuance of the
experiment; Mr. H. W. S. proceeded to do so, but was unable to
dilCover anything suspicious.
Report of MR. HBlII'RY fuYMAN.
Febncary 16t1a, 1887.
[a] Mr. H. W. S. and mYllelf vilited Mr. S. J. Davey lut evening, and
he gave UII a Mnce of hillllate-writing. He first got a plain table, without
any Becret contrivanceB, let me examine it, which I did thoroughly, then
• Compare the theory framed by Dr. E. von Hartmann to account for
slate-writing phenomena, in Der SpiritiBmm. See C. C. M.'s translation,
$piritiBm, pp. 4O-48.-S.J.D.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental I nVe8tigation. 4'11
brought two ordinary school slates, and asked me to wash them with a sponge
and water, 80 that if there was any writing on, it might be washed off. He
next placed one fiat on the table, asked me to take two small pieces of chalk,
and put them on the slate, which I did, a blue and a red piece ; then he pui
the other slate on the top, and we joined hands and preBBed them on the
top of the slat6&. After a minute ortwo I distinctly heard writing; when it
had ceased he asked me to lift it up. When I did 80 the bottom one was
covered with writing in the following words (half in blue and half in red
chalk): .. You will please pardon us friends if we do not enter with you to-
night into experiments of a very minute nature, the grand fact of this
writing should be sufficient, and we do not care to cloak the wonderment
thereof by descending to underhand coin tricks, and such like phenomena,
which however startling to lOme would fail upon those who like yourself
are acquaihted with conjuring poBBibilities. Good-bye."
[b] The next thing he showed me was a slate which locked up with a patent
lever lock. After I had washed the slate, he asked me to write down on the
inside any question I liked, then put a piece of chalk in, lock it up, and put
the key in my pocket. The question I asked was, "What kind of weather
shall we have to-morrow 1" He was out of the room while I wrote it down,
and it was locked up by the time he came back ; he then placed it on
the table, the gas being alight ai the time, we joined hands and put them
on the top of the slate. After a little I again heard writing, and when I opened
it there was the answer, in red chalk, each side of the slate: .. Ask the
clerk of the weather." It had been written with the piece of chalk I had
put in. I am quite certain the slate had not been opened after I had locked
it up. lIBNRY HAnuN.
P.S.-I may add that I watched Mr. S. J. Davey very closely, but I could
see no poBBible means by which any of his slate-writing could be done by
ordinary known means. H. H.
Statement of MR. H. W. S.
February 16th..
It is with still greater astonishment that I, in company with my friend,
Mr. H., witneBBed last night a seance of, if poBBible, greater anomalies than
the previous one. Whilst confirming all the details given by my friend,
Mr. H., I should like to draw attention to the fact that there were two
witnesses in the matter, whose evidence is undoubtedly more reliable than
that of ene person. Moreover, it is far more difficult to perform in their
presence, as the observation is more intense.
[H. W. S.]
SITTING XIII.
Mr. Stanley W. Jones, the writer of the following report, was
inclined to account for the phenomena which he witnessed, and for
analogous "mediumistic" phenomena, by some theory involving the
action of magnetism.
Digitized by €;fH1>gle
4.72 The PoBBibiUti~ of .Jfal-Obse'MJat-ion, t/;c.
Report of M&. STANUY w. JONJI8.
I called on Mr. S. J. l>avey, by appointment, on the evening of Friday,
March 25th, 1887, bringing with me two perfectly new alates, which I had
purchaaed that day and privately marked. I waa ahown into a well-fumiahed
atudy, but without any of the usual paraphernalia of the conjurer about it.
An ordinary dark wooden table with two flaps waa brought forward. which I
carefully examined. I pullod out the aingle drawer, finding it full of papers,
and nothing auspicious or myaterious about it in any way.
fa] In anewer to my request, Mr. Davey took an ordinary alate of hie
own, which I carefully sponged and wiped. He placed the same under the
leaf of the table, I putting between the surface of the slate and the wood of
table a piece of crayon. I supported one aide with my left hand, he the other
with his right. His left hand and my right were cluped. He asked me to
propound lOme qMestion. I accordingly aubmitted the following interroga-
tory: "On what day of the week doel the 1st April fall?" After a certain
ill~al he said, "Let us examine the alate." It was raised, but apparently
preaunted an unchanged appearance. After replacing it aa before, in a
minute or two I heard a very faint 8Oratching, and on looking at the surface
the following fairly legible 80rawl appeared: "I don't know."
[b] Mr. Davey IlOW placed in my handa a small ebony-backed alate.
with Chatwood's lock; bidding me, while he retired from the room, write any
question therein. I inacribed, "What wu tho exact date of my birth '"
placing the key in my pocket. I put, however, a new piece of crayon
inside. The Ilate was now laid on the table and we placed our handa upon
it. •After a ahort time the 80ratching was again heard, and on unlocking
the alate the following perfectly legible answer appeared: "I do not know
your birthday." The faceta of the crayon, which were perfectly unbroken
on being put in, I found worn away, and relting on the last y.
[c] I now took the two new alatel which I had purchased, and which had
never for a moment paaaed out of my poueaaion, I even taking the pre-
caution of litting on them during the foregoing proceedinga. I placed a
piece of red Cl"&yon therein, and Icrewed them down top and bottom 80
tightly that by no pouibility could e,'en the thin edge of a penknife be
introduced. I then corded the alates twice acl'Ollll and acl'088, aealing them in
two places with red and blue wax (for of course any attempt to remove the
aeala by heat wOl\ld caUIe the colours to fuse, and thus immediately detect
the artifice), ltamping them with my own private aignet. Mr. Davey placed
the slates under the table, and requested me to name lOme word I would
like written. I 8tipulated for" April." After a few minutes, during which I
most carefully watched him, he returned them, and after 10 minutea' work,
80 tightly were they clOled, I found exactly what I had desired.
ld] He next took hia own Ilate again, laying it upon the table, I having
previously placed a piece of crayon therein, and pocketing the key after
lucking it. After a slight interval, a distinct and continuous 80ratching aa
of regular writing waa heard, which lasted exactly 25 aeconda. On unlock-
ing the alate, the following meaaage in a clear running hand appeared:
" Dear Sir,-We regret to think that in thia enlightened age there are still
to be und in,'estigators in the realm of Trixography wbqjJe ~ do not
Digitized by l::.oogle
Eaperimentol I nVe8tigation. 473
aspire beyond the pencil thimble, and' half-a-crown' trick slate. We are
therefore pleased you should impose teata upon our powers, as we are
anxioUB to thoroughly Bamfy you of our medium's honesty. Good-bye."
ThiB concluded a most interesting, succeBBful, and perfectly Batwactory
psychographic seance.
The precautions I took entirely preclude any idea of trickery orconjuring.
It iB IIlao a noticeable point that whereas the last "meBBage" was concluded
in 25 seconds, it takes atleastfi-"e minute.. to tranacribe. I was extremely
careful in doing my utmolt to detect any artifices of Mr. Davey, but mUBt
own that not only was I most completely haftled, but everything IOemed
perfectly open and above board, the entire proceedings being tranB&Cted in
the full glare of two powerful gas jets. I left very much impreBBed with Mr.
Davey's marvelloUB powers and the phenomena I had witnOBBed.
STANLEY W. JONEIl.
1
c] P.S.- Nota Bene.-After peruaal of above, conaidering that the expres-
&ion, "I found eJ:&Ctly what I desired," might be liable to a poBBible milCOn-
struction, I think it better to add that I state in the moat unequivoca.l, explicit,
and emphatic manner, that after Mr. Davey had returned me my two slates,
secured as above de8Oribed, and which I molt c:arefully and minutely
examined to detect any signs of tampering, finding however my seals intact
and the cording and 80rews in eJ:&Ctly the Bame condition as when they left
my poBBOBBion a few momenta before, and that the word " April," which I
had asked for, was legibly written with the crayon, on one of the inaide
surfaceB. Whether the top or bottom I did not obaerre. The apparently
impoBBible having thUB been solved as I hereby testify.
STANLEY W. JONES.
SITTING XIV.
The following account is by a gentleman who has had considerable
opportunities of observing and taking part in experimental inquiry. I
shall speak of him as Dr. Q. He was aware that my performances
were conjuring, and had read my paper in the Jowrnal of the S.P.R.
for January, 18M7. He had had sittings with "slate-writing"
mediums, and knew precisely the object of my investigation, although
he did not know the methods which I employed. . His account is
remarkably good, and I quote it chiefly to show the rapidity with
which slates fastened together as described can be manipulated.
Report of DR. Q.
[a] I have witnOBBed thiB afternoon, about three hours ago, some remark-
able phenomena, when sitting with Mr. Davey, which I think worthy of a
brief record without oomment. '!'he slSance was in a friend's room, in the
early afternoon, in thoroughly good daylight. An adjoining room, entirely
IOparate from the experimenting room, gave me the opportunity of making
my preparations out of Mr. Davey's sight. I took three cOJ}UJlon 804001-
Digitized by ~oo8le
4740 The PO&fibilities of MaL-Observatiun, tl:c.
room slatee and examined them carefully by myself, teating the aecurity of
the jointa of the wood frames. the IOlidity of the piece of alate encl~, and
ita freedom from marks of chalk. I had brought a strong lena and ....
thereby able to mark for identification each alate, A, B, and C, with marks
not visible to myown eyes without a lena. I then laid B on C and tied them
tightly round with strong string whoae el&lticity 11'&1 very alight. The knota
I sealed and marked the aeala. I had lert a small piece of whitish chalk
between the slates. I brought them in this condition back to the experi-
menting room where Mr. Davey W&l, and we seated ourselves at the comer
of a wooden table without. tablecloth. The only drawer in the table which I
could find had been removed. I gave the aJatee to Mr. Davey, who ....
sitting on my left. He took them and held them in his two hands under the
table for a minute or more,l then gave me his left hand above the table, and
I held it in my left hand. My knees under the table were separated by a leg
of the table from free movement towards Mr. Davey. After two or t.hree
minutes, during which there had been lOme conversation, he &lked me to
suggest lOme word whioh should be written between the aJates. I said at
first VladiV08tok, but &I he thought this inappropriate I changed it for
Hong Kong. I heard scratching lOunds, but observed Ie.. movement of Mr.
Davey's right elbow than there had been before. After a minute or two he
reproduCtld the alates and asked me to examine them and see what had been
written inaide. I found no appreciable displacement of the string. no change
in the seals, and the marks of identification were clear. I cut the string.
therefore, and opened the aJates. On one I found rather indistinct acratchea
in an apparently continuous line, of which one-half bore a conaiderable
resemblance to a badly-written Hong; the other half W&I of about equal
length, but not decipherable.
[b] I retired to the preparing-room to make ready for another experiment.
I drew on the internal 8urface of B five vertical lines, and on the internal
8urface of C five vertical and five horizontal lines with the fragment of
whitish chalk and tied and sealed them &I before. This time I thought that
the appoBition of the edges W&I more complete and Becure than before. I
brought them to Mr. Davey, and after they had been handled &I before, I
asked that the word Irishman should be written, but there W&I no BUOOO88 i I
did not find any appreciable alteration on the inaide or outside of the alate&.
My left knee had been under the apparent position of Mr. Davey's right
band.
[c] In the third experiment the 8aJlle alatea were used; they were prepared
in Mr. Davey's presence. They were tied and the knota sealed and also two
screw naila were driven through the wooden frames of both alates, one at
what I JOay call the lOuth-eaat comer and the other at the middle of the
north end. This made firm and satisfactory apposition of the frames in the
neighbourhood of the screWB. The screws were not sealed, but the position
of the fine broken woody fibres round them W&I noted. I did not succeed in
making the tied string quite &I tight &I in the previous experiment. I noticed
no dillerence in the manipulation of the aJates from the firat two experi-
menta. I made no attempt to touch Mr. Davey'. hand with my left knee. I
&lked that 77 should be written, and after a few seconds explained
myself by laying that they should be written out in full, not in nwnbera.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 475
The slates were brought above the table in le88 than a minute after this. I
could find no change externally, and written inside I found the figures 'i7,
and also a fairly well-formed ,. Sev," followed after an indistinct interval by
signa resembling" ty,II and these also by some almost indecipherable scratchel.
[d] For a fourth experiment I prepared the Bame alates in the adjoining
room. A fresh screw was fixed in the previous hole near the south-east comer,
and another was paued through both frames a little below the north-west
comer. The exact position of the heads of the screws was noticed, but
they were not sealed. I carefully examined the piece of chalk left between
the slates with my lena, and found two smooth rubbed facets on it. These
and the other rough surfaces of the irregular polygonal JIlIII8 I marked with
very finely cut linea. The slates were tied with thinner and more yielding
string, and the knots sealed. A ratherfragile drop of lealing wax was placed
on the junction of the croued strings over the middle of the slate. The
chief object of the experiment was to test the rapidity with which the
phenomena occurred when Mr. Davey was not under my observation. I was
to stand with my back to Mr. Davey, to hold out the slates to him behind
my back, and to order lome word which was to be written between them
behind me out of my sight, and the slates returned to my hand behind my
back as lOOn as pouible. I was to note the time spent on this. On a first;
attempt I held out the slates behind my back Baying, "commandment.II Mr.
Davey took them, asking at the Bametime what was the word required. 1 BaW
that I had not made myself plain, turned round and took back the
slates within one or two seconds, and found no change externally except that
the fragile drop of sealing wax on the croued strings was broken. I took the
slates back again to the preparing-room, and put on another similar drop.
On a second trial I again said, "commandment,II putting the slates behind
me with my left hand, holding my watch in my right, and keeping my back
to Mr. Davey. They were returned to my hand in 30 or 31 seconds. Some
BOunds which might be described as shuflling and scratching had been heard
by me. I laid them on the table, and on examination found no
change externally; then cut the strings and found on the inner
lurface .. commandment" written more distinctly than the previoul
words had been and near the edge I. of the slate. Whilst I was
looking at the word Mr. Davey touched and to some extent broke the piece
of chalk. In examining it afterwards with a lena I found only two Imooth
rubbed facets, each of which was still marked with the finely cut line I had
made on it : over lome only of the remaining rough surfaces could I find the
fine lines that I had previoully made over all. I made no accurate compari-
Ion between the marks I could produce on the alate by the whitish chalk
and those fonning the worda or parts of words. In no case was the piece of
chalk large enough to touch both internal surfaces at the Bame time.
March 25th, 1887.
SITTINGS XV. AND XVI.
Miss Symons Wa.tl introduced to me by Mrs. Sidgwick on the day of
our tirst sitting. I gave to her and Mrs. Sidgwick three sitti~ in aU, of
Digitized by l::.oogle
476 The P088'ibilities of Mal-Observation, 4:c.
the second of which, a dark .nce, she wrote no account. As I have
already stated (p. 415, note), I shall not quote the accounts written by
Mrs. Sidgwick, as I had told her a good deal about my tricks beforehand,
and she knew that my perfonDances were conjuring. Notwithstanding
this, however, Mrs. Sidgwick was unable to explain BOme of my
phenomena. At my request, she has furnished BOme notes concerning
the reports of Miss Symons, and she also makes the following statement:
"I did not communicate what I knew about Mr. Davey to Mias
Symons till after the second seancehere recorded, as my object in taking
her to the seances was to obtain an account of what ahe witnessed,
writtt-n as nearly as possible in the BRme state of mind as when ahe
wrote certain accounts (printed in the Journal of the S.P.R. for June,
1886) of Mr. Eglinton. I therefore merely represented Mr. Davey asa
person through whom remarkable phenomena occUJTeCi, which I wanted
to have investigated. Mr. Davey himself seemed to nle (as I have
recorded in my note-book) to talk very openly to Miss Symons. He
seemed to tell her almost as much as he had told me about his tricks and
those of other' mediums,' but it was doubtless mixed up in a mystifying
way. Unfortunately, Miss Symons had great confidence in my care as
an investigator, and, without revealing the actual situation, I could not
succeed in making her feel herself dependent entirely on her own
observation. It is due to her to state this, as, had she left me out of
account she believes ahe would have used more precautions than she
did, and she considers that she was more careful in her investigation of
Mr. Eglinton than in that of Mr. Davey."
These sittings were the earliest I gave which were recorded in
detail; my experience then was comparatively limited, and I have
since become much more practised in certain methods, and have
also acquired the knowledge of new ones.
SITTING XV.
&port of MISS SYMONS.
Slate-writing aN.nce, November 16th, 1885, at U, Dean'l-yard, with Mrs.
Sidgwick, and a medium whom I will delignate .. Mr. A. [changed through-
out to D., lee p. '10]. Our litting commenced at 7.~ p.ID. We took our
placea round a deal table in the following order :-The medium Mr. D. at
one comer, next him MI'II. Sidgwick, and I oppoaite.
Neither MI'II. Sidgwick nor I had brought any llatel, and we were,
therefore, obliged to UIe thOle brought by Mr. D. We ..t in a good light, a
lamp and several candlel were burning in different parte of the room. We
fil'llt waahed the alates ourselves with water brought us by Mr. Podmore, 80
that there waa no question of ita containing any admixture of chemicaIa, by
which means writing might be produced,.. haa 80metimel been suggested
to me ; the table, too, was above sUBpicion, having just been boU£ht by Mr.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 477
PodDiore for this particular aMnce. After each one of us had separately
waahed and dried the slates, one was marked by Mra. Sidgwick, a piece of
pencil waa placed on it, and it waa held by Mr. D. under the table, who warned
us to watch him very carefully, aa he gave no promise ?lot to cheat, did we
give him the faintest opportunity for so doing, and who wished us distinctly
to underatand that he did not claim to produce the phenomena he hoped to
show us, by spirit agency. Prior to placing the ordinary slate under the table,
we had waahed and examined a small double folding slate, also belonging to
the medium. This alate waa locked by Mra. Sidgwick, who put the key in her
purse, and the purae in her pocket, and who aat upon the slate.
The single marked slate, of which I have previously spoken, waa now
held by Mr. D. under the table. We joined hands, and contented ourselves by
asking merely that any word might be written, or the single word .. Abbey."
The medium, after the lapse of a few minutes only, sllowed himself very
impatient at no writing having been produced. He proposed using another
alate, which had &lao been waahed and dried by us. Another piece of pencil
WIUS tried; these and other movements-for he constantly moved the slates to
ascertain whether anything had been written-made it much more difficult
to watcll him narrowly, than had he been content to wait quietly and
patiently for results. Still I waa not able to detect any change of slates
beyond the two which had been waahe<l and cleaned by us. No writing had
appeared, and Mr. D. soon proposed that we should try the following test,
suggested by him.
[a] One of us was to stand with a newspaper on a table belUnd us,
and with one finger waa to point at random at any word; the other waa
to sit at the deal table with him. It was agreed that I should be the one
to point to a word on the newspaper behind me, and I took up my position
for this purpose at another table, about a couple of yards from the
one at which Mra. Sidgwick and Mr. D. were sitting. We had waited a few
seconds only when the medium-who, 118 I have said before, seemed restless
and impatient throughout the evening-suggeated that I should blowout the
candles behind me, as he thought darkneaa behind the paper might facilitate
the accomplishment of the teat. I complied, and returning to the table
again placed my hand behind my back, and put my finger, aa before, at
random on auy pan of the paper. I had no eooner done aa he had asked,
than Mr. D. regretted that I should ever have moved from my place, aa he
thought it poaaible that the word written-if writing came at all-would be
thefirat and not the second word to which I had pointed. It waa not long
before writing waa heard. Mra. Sidgwick and Mr. D. turned to the caudle
behind them, but were unable to decipher the word written. Mr. D. aaked that;
it might be re-written. Another slate was used, on which they presently
read the word "Melbourne." We then turned to see the word at which I
waa pointing. It waa, however, not" Melbourne," neither was that word
anywhere in the immediate neighbourhood of my finger, though we did
afterwards find it in larger type, and two columns further on. Whether I
bad at firat pointed to this word, could not of course be aacertained. It is
possible that I did BO, though a test which we tried later on, and to which I
shall presently allude, proves that the "control" was not incapable of
making a mistake. As to whether this word was obtained under good
Digitized by Coogle
478 The Possibilities of Mal-Observation, tl:c.
conditions I cannot give an opinion. u I wu not sufficiently near Ute
medium to be ahle to watch him closely.
[b] We next revened our pOilitioDl, Mrs. Sidgwick sitting opposite Mr. D.
and I next him; the double slate remained on the chair on which I aat.1 After
again wuhing two slatea. al.d placing one on the top of the other, Mr. D. and
I together held them under the table ; they were once or twice removed to see
that the pencil wu still there, and that no writing had come, but alway.
roturned imntediately, and they were not revened or changed by Mr. D., 80
far u I know, whilst we were together holding them, up to the time when we
again apparently heard the scratching of the pencil. We found, on carrying
the slatea to the light, that there wu a meuage of moderate Ieogth covering
half t.he slate, and signed .. J.S...
[c] Agsin we sat u before, and under the aame conditioDl writingcame on
one of the two slates held by Mr. D. and me under the table, half the meuage
being in red chalk and half in blue-a bit of each had been placed on t.he
slate. Again I could detect no trickery whatever; the slates were clean
when we laid the bits of chalk between them, and one wu covered with
writing when they were remo\E'd from the table. Unfortunately the a1ates
had not been marked, and I did not notice whether the bit of chalk was
rosting at the lut IItroke of the lut word, or whether the nib 1r&I at all
worn down. The mellMge wu of decided interest, it was u follows :-" My
dear Friends,We have no wish to deceive you as regards the Agency question.
The name of a deceased relative, especially a mother, is [far too sacred,
although] mOlt effective,"&C.-the ordinary Spiritualiatic jargon-then, ..Our
friend made a mi8take the other night, dear Miss S. Agradezco Ii V. 8U
viaita. Espero que Ie volnero , ver Ii V. pronto. Tengo que macharme,
A DiOl." Then the mellll&ge continued: .. Yea, your haunted house _ a
failure." The lut part of this sentence was too badly written to be
deciphert>d ; it appeared to be to the effect that the writer had not been able
to be present. Now this mesRage appears to me to be ,trikiug, though not of
course conclu8ive. I mU8t explain that about a month ago I had had a Bitting
with Mr. Eglinton for 8late-writing, and had asked a question in Spanish, to
which I had had the rE'ply that ..there wu no French scholar present." Hence
the rouon of the remark ••Our friend made a mistake tile other night," &e.
(the former seance had taken place in the day-time). This meuage, which
had amused me at the time, had by no means been forgotten by me,
although it had not been in my consciouB thoughts for many days, and cer-
tainly not during the seance of which I write; it wu known to Mn. Sidgwick
alBO, to whom I had written an account of the seance with Mr. Eglinton BOOn
after it took place. But what caused an allusion to this seance of a month
ago, and through the agency of a medium who it. seems improbable could
have heard of this former seance 1 However, u I have said before, intereating
and striking though thiB'message appears to be, it giVeB no proof of thought-
tranaference, 81 Mr. D. may have heard of the seance through BOrne ordinary
BleanB, though from his converaation he appeared to be on any but intimate
temtB with Mr. Eglinton, and he was quite unknown to me and I believe to
Mrs. Sidgwick (1) before we met him on this ovening at Dean's-yard. He also
told U8 that he did not know a word of Spaniah. Still, it would have been no
very difficult task to have got a few sentences written for this particular
Digitized by Coogle
E:cperirrumtaJ, Investigation. 479
aeance, and there was nothing in the mellllllge from beginning to end which
might not have been written previouB to the BtSance. But admit-
ting all this, I was not consciouB of any movement by which he could have
changed a cleaned IIlate, which I was holding with him, for one on
which the m8111111ge was written. The allUBion to the haunted houBe is 1_
Btriking, for Mr. D. iB known to Mr. Podmore, and might have heard of it
through him, or many other BOurces.
[d] We next tried for writing on the locked Blate. I must remark here that
though we had sat on this slate during the greater part of the lMSance, we had
not done BO throughout. We had left it on the chair when we turned to the
candles behind UB to read the meBBag8. Mr. D. had quickly picked it up, and
asked us not to 100e Bight of it, as he wished to preclude all pOBBibility of
fraud. He might, of COUl'B8, in this moment I have changed the slate for one
on which a mellllllge was already written, but the nature of the test we
obtained, I think, negativeB this suppOlition; besideB which, before it was
held under the table, Mrs. Sidgwick gave me the key, we unlocked the
IIlate, found no writing there, and after the slate was again locked, I put the
key in my pocket.3
It was now proposed by Mr. D. that we should try to obtain a line from
a page of any book to be taken at random from Mr. Podmore'B shelveB. This
was done by Ml'8. Sidgwick, who took care only-at Mr. D.'s request-to
select a book with good type. This book was shown to Mr. D., who opened
it, looked at the type, and considered it lufficiently clear. Mrs. Sidgwick
placed it on the table, and her and my handa rested on it, whilst Mr. D. and
I held the small locked slate under the table. It was at this point, after
chOOBing her book, that the IIlate had been opened, found clean, and the key
given to me. It was decided that Mrs. Sidgwiok should think of the page of
the book fJ'om whioh the line Wall to be taken, and I of the line, counting from
the top of the page, it being agreed-at Mr. D.'s wish-that to facilitate the
test, we Bhould each think of a number below 10.
Again, BO far as I could Bee, we gave Mr. D. no opportunity for changing
the Blate. I am quite certain that he did not do BO whilst we were holding it
together. And in this case the m8B8&ge must have been written in our
pruence, as we did get a line copied from this very book, though not the line
of which we were thinking. When the Blate was again unlocked, we found
writing on each Bide ; the meBBage was to the effeot that we were not
sufficiently en rapport with one another to get the best results as yet, but
that they were willing to give us BOrne proof of their power. Then followed a
few worda in inverted commas, after which an illegible word, with which the
meuage broke off abruptly. Mrs. Sidgwick then explained that Bhe
had been thinking of page 9, and I had thought of line 4. Mrs. Sidgwick
quickly turned to this page and line, but no BUch WOrdB as thOle quoted were
to be found. Mr. D. BuggeBted that the 9 in Mrs. Sidgwick'B mind might
have been reversed and wrongly read as 6. We, therefore, turned to page
6, and on the last line of that page and the first line of page 7, we found the
worda for which we were looking.
In this case-admitting the genuinen8BB of the phenomenon-there might
again have been thought-transference, for the book had been in both Mrs.
Sidgwick'B and Mr. D.'B hand, and either might have caught sightof theBe ve~
Digitized by Coogle
480 The Po88'ihilities of Mal-Observatio-n, c/;c.
words. With this the _nee ended, as Mr. D. expresaed himself too tired
to sit any longer, and complained of a very bad headache. He aeemed to
suft'er much after each meuage had been produced, and complained of g..-t
dryn_ of the throat.
J£8III1!: H. SYlION8.
NOfJefnber 19th.. 1885.
SITl'ING XVI.
Report oj MIss SYKONS.
Slate·writing .eanee given by Mr. D., at 14, Dean's-ysrd, Westminster,
Mra. Sidgwick and myself present ;-
I took alates with me-two ordinary onN, and ORe a folding alate, framed
in wood, with a padlock and key.
[a] We first used the ordinary slates; they were cleaned, dried, and placed
one on the other upon the table, a nib of pencil between them, and Hra.
Sidgwick's, medium's, and my banda resting on them. No writing being
heard, Mr. D. and I held them underneath the table. Eventually, however,
writing was produced whilst the slates were on the table in position I have
before deacribed. The measage was a long one, covering completely one aide
of slate. We examined them when they were placed the second time on the
table, and satisfied ourselves that they were clean. I am sure that the slates
were not changed, because mine had rounded comers and Mr. Do's, I
observed, were Bquare.1
[b] The medium nextasked me to fetch a book from the outerroom. I took
one at random from the shelves of the library. Mr. D. saw me take it out,
but did not touch it. I brought it into the inner room and put it on a chair
between Mra. Sidgwick and myself, whilat we prepared another slate and bit
of pencil. Being again satisfied that the slates were clean, the book-into
which I had not looked, and the namo of which I did not know-was plaoed
on the slate, all our hands resting on it as before. 1 mentally thought of a
page and line, from which a quotation was to be made, both numbers, at
medium's request, being under 10. After a short time writing was heard.
On the slate was written... Cantor lecture will be given on Mondays at the
Kensington Museum-this is all we have power to do." We looked at p. 2,
line 7, the numbers I had thought of, but did not find the words quoted.
The medium, however, was very sure that they would be found somewhere
near, and he lOOn discovered on last line of p. 7 .. Cantorlecture," and on
second line of p. 8 .. will be given on Mondays," and a few lines further
down, "at the Kensington Museum."
[c] The teat having been only a partial IUccess, the medium proposed that
we should try it again. He asked me to fetch a second book from the outer
room. 1 took up a JoumaJ. of the Society lying on the table. I did not look
to see which number I had chosen. Medium asked me to think again of two
numbers under 10, to determine page and line from which quotation should
be made. I did so, and very shortly after was written in red chalk, "No
luch page." This was true, for on opening volume we fowld it commenced at
a hundred and something.
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 481
[d] Mr. D. wished to try this test again. 10 I fetched a third book. This
bappened to be Time-both he and I saw the title. This time I told him
which numbers 1 was thinking of-po 8, line 5. We held one elate under
the table, and another with the book on it remained on the table-both
these elates were Mr. D.'s. Aftera time writing was heard, and it was on the
upper slate that we found the quotation, correctly given this time, "The
Imperial Parliament," line 1, and then a few words taken from line 5. The
slato used was " large folding one, with a lock, belonging to medium. Into
this he slipped a sheet of paper and a bit of lead pencil ; it was on the paper
that the quotation was written. Mrs. Sidgwick had the key, and it was she
who opened the slate.s The seance was held by full gaslight. The writing
came always on underneath surface of elate-that lying nearest the table.
[e] Mr. D. then proposed showingua anothertrick.s He took up 12 squares
of paper, asked me to name any 12 animals I liked, whose names he wrote
on the 12 squares ~f paper. These were shutBed together, and I was asked to
choose one, which I WM to glance at and then instantly to bum. Mr. D. at
the same time threw the other squares into the fire. I next wrote the first
and last letters of the animal I had chosen on another piece of paper, this
Mr. D. burned in the gas, bared his arm and showed us that there was
nothing written there, rubbed the aBhes of the burnt paper over the bare
arm, and presently what looked like letters became very faintly visible.
They did not, however, become sufficiently distinct to enable us to read
them, and Mr. D. said he would presently get the animal's name written on
a slate.
[j] We sat round the table again, as before-Mrs. Sidgwick opposite
medium and I next him. One slate was held underneath table by Mr. D. and
me, and the others were left on the table, with our hands resting on it. I
asked that the names of my sisters might be written-this was not done.
Neither did" Joey," in answer to Mrs. Sidgwick's question, succeed in telling
us where we had spent the greater part of the day. "Joey" was allO
unable to get any wnting on my little folding locked slate, though we gave
him two or three times the opportunity of doing 10.
[g] Mr. D. asked him to tell us any secrets about either of us, and we
heard the lOund of writing on the slate lying on the uppersurface of the table.
The lOund continued, when Mr. D. withdrew his hands ashort distance from
the elate, but ceased when he withdrew them to a greater distance. A long
message was written again, covering the whole side of the elate, and com-
mencing at a spot where the medium had previously requested itto commence
by putting a small cross.
The " secrets .. were such as were more or less known to us all, referring
to a possible explanation I had given of our last seance with Mr. D. to
"Blue Bricks," and telling me that I could get slate-writing if Isataufficiently
often, and " not with Mrs. Sidgwick .. I I
One of our messages at request was written in dift"erent-coloured chalks,
three bits of which had been placed on the table, underneath the elate.
[h] The last experiment Mr. D. mowed us was the visible moving of the
ohalk under an inverted tumbler.
Two bits of chalk were placed on a slate, the tumbler covering them j
the elate was isolated from the table. Mr. D. held Mrs. Sidpjck's apd
Digitized by~008le
482 T~ Po88ibilit·ies of Mal-ObsertJation, &c.
my hands, and there was no contact by either of us with the alate.
Preaently one bit of chalk was obeerved to move slightly. Mrs. Sidgwick
asked it to trace the figure , (Mr. D. having proposed that she should chooae
a number under 10), and on removing the tumbler and inapecting the alate,
we found the figure , IOmewhat faintly traced on the alate. I do not belieT.
that this was a genuine phenomenon, though I have no theory as to how the
trick was performed. I only obeerved that though the chalk moved, it did
not appear to be forming a " although that figure was plainly visible when
Mr. D. afterwards gave us the alate.
[i) Before he left, Mr. D. held a alate with me under the table, and asked
that the name of t.he animal written on the slip of paper I had choeen should
be written on the slate. Writing was heard, 'he alate brought up. and I
found" rhinoceroe "-wrongly apelt-·in red chalk. This wu-correct, though
how Mr. D. knew, or by what means the word was written, I have no idea,
for the alate appeared to me to be clean • when we put it under the table.
JB88IB H. SYJ(ONS.
February 23rd, 1886.
SITTING FOR MATERIALISATION.
The foregoing reports have all related to "Slate-writing," or ana-
logous phenomena. I have, however, also given a few sittings for
"Materialiaation," and I may in the future endeavour to exhibit more
fully the pOBBibilities of trickery in this direction, but this branch of the
su~ject has been of leas interest to me, partly because the experiences
which originally impressed me in connection with Spiritualism were not
" Materialisation " but" Slate-writing" phenomena-partly because the
testimony offered by Spiritualists for the genuineness of the latter
appears to be so much superior to that offered in favour of
•• Materialiaations." Still, the following reports of a seance which I
gave last year may be instructive by way of suggesting what may
be done by trickery. Although only three of the six sitters wrote
rt'porta, none of them contributed in the smallest degree to the
production of the" phenomena."
1. Report OJMBB. JOHNSON.
October 7th, 1886.
I have just retumed from paying a quite unexpected visit to Mr. Davey.
We had invited him to our house for to-morrow to give us one of his
wonderful manifestationa, but received a bad account of his health, which
prevented him keeping his appointment. I, therefore, with my sister, called to
inquire after him, and found that, although unable to leave the hoU8e, he wu
about to hold a IMWlce with lOme friends, and invited us to join them.
On entering the dining-room we searched every article of furniture, but
could find nothing that. could in any way aaaiat in the materialiaation which
followed. Mr. Davey alIIO tumed out his pockets, and we looked under his
Digitized by Coogle
Ea;perime:ntal I'nvestigation. 483
coat and waistcoat. After the door was locked and sealed, and the gas turned
out, we, six besides Mr. Davey, sat round a table, all joining hands. I had
hold of Mr. Davey's left hand and a gentleman opposite of his right, none
for a moment letting go until the end of the aeance. A musical box was
playing on the table; by degrees it floated about and knocked a gentleman on
the head. Knockings were heard in different parts of the room, and bright
lights seen. A gong BOunded several times, and then appeared the head of
a woman, which came close to us, and then dematerialised. After a few
seconds another form appeared, the half figure of a man holding a book, with
lambent edges, which it raised over its head, moved close to us, bowed
several times, and by degrees seemed to disappear with a scraping noise
through the ceiling. During the aeance I with the. others had various taps
on the head and body, a gentleman complained of the coldness of a hand
pressing on him, and the stSance was altogether a most interesting, remark-
able and startling phenomenon, and I can in no way account for it.
MARu.NNB JOHNSON.
2. &pori of MIss WILLSON.
DBAR MR. DAVBY,
T1w.rBday .&ming, October 7th.
We have just returned from a aeance at your house, and whlle
all is fresh in my memory, I hasten to send you my account of what
happened. You had kindly promised to come to my sister's house to-morrow
evening to give ua a "materiaJisation," and perhaps some slate-writing, but'
having received a telegram and letter from you saying you must disappoint
us, as your doctor had forbidden you for the present to exert yourself much
or to be out in the night-air, my sister and I called to-day to inquire after
you.
We found you at home, and you persuaded us to stay to a short aeance.
Seven of us, including yourself, entered the dining-room, which we
immediately examined, looking under the tables and sofa, behind curtains,
inside the cheffonier, &C. After convincing ourselves that nothing was con-
cealed, and you having turned out your pockets, we locked the door, and
placed a sealed paper acroBB it. We then sat round the dining-table, holding
hands in a circle, a musical box was placed on the table, and the gas turned
out. In a short time we heard raps in various parts of the room, a gong
sounded in one corner, the musical-box, playing,floated in the air, and struck
the head of one of our party. Several felt theIUBelves touched, and one said
he distinctly felt a cold hand placed on his head.
A female head appeared, in a strong light, floating in the air, and after-
wards a ha.lf-Iength figure of a bearded man, in a turban, reading a book,
appeared in the same manner, bowed to some of the 888embly, raised
his book above his head, and floated about the room, fina.lly disappearing
through the ceiling with a scraping noise. This a.ll happened while two of
our number tightly held your hands, and are convinced they never relaxed
their clasp.
On the gas being relit, we found the door still locked with the paper
unbroken.
Digitized by Coogle
484 The Possibil·j,ties of Mal-Obse1"Vation, Jec.
Trusting our visit did not fatigue you, and that your proposed trip will
lOOn restore you to health, when we hope you will resume your interesting
investigations, 1 remain, sincerely YOUl'B,
E. M. WILLSON.
3. RqJort of MR. RAlT.
On Thul'llday evening. the 7th October, 1886, I was present at a &&moe
held by Mr. Davey, at his house. There were in all eight* persons, myself
included. We took our seats at 7.30 p.m., round an ordinary dining-room
tsble (in the dining-room of the house), which, at Mr. Davey's request, we
examined carefully, as also any other objects in the room which demanded
our atteution. The door ·of the room was locked, and I placed the key in
my pocket, it was also sealed with a slip of gummed paper ; the gas was
then turned out. so that we were left in darkneaa. A musical box was
wound up, and aet to play an air, with the object, as I suppoatl, to enliven the
proceedings! I held Mr. Davey's right hand. hialeft was held by Mrs. [John-
son] ; the rest joined hands, so that during the seance a continual chain W&I
formed which was maintained the whole time. After we had remained
some time thu., various noises 1!8 of a ahuftling of feet, &0., were heard. in
different parts of the room, and I distinctly felt somethinggrasp my right foot;
almost immediately I was touched on the forehead by a cold hand, which, at
Mr. Davey's request, also touched those that wished it. The musical box
was lifted, and although it was dark I fancied I asw it, surrounded by a pale
light, descend through the air ; it certRinly struck me lightly on the aide of
the head, then it was again raised, and deposited on the table.
The hand which touched me was cold and clammy; it evidently belonged
to a most courteous and obliging spirit, for it did exactly what we desired!
and at my wishing to feel the full palm on the back of my head (so as to
ascertain its shape and size) it TeSted there for fully three seconds; it _,
however, a somewhat weird experience I Various raps were now heard, a
gong aounded behind my back, and we were told by Mr. Davey to pay
attention, as 8'lmething wonderful was about to take place. Faintly, but
gradually growing more distinct, a bluish white light appeared hovering
about our heads; it gradually developed more and more till at lengtq we
beheld what we were told was the head of a woman. This apparition was
frightful in its uglineaa. but so distinct that every one could see it. The
features were distinct, the cheek bones prominent, the nose aquiline, a kind
of hood covered the head, and the whole resembled the head of a mummy.
After favouring those of the company who wished to see its full face by turn-
ing towards them, it gradually vanished in our presence. The next spirit form
was more wonderful still ; a thin streak of light appeared behind Mr. Davey,
vanished, appeared again in another part of the room, and by degrees
developed into the figure of a man. The extremities were hidden in a kind
of mist, but the arms, shoulders and head were visible. The figure was that of
an Oriental. a thickblack beard covered his face. hishead was surrounded by a
turban; in his hands he carried a book whichheoccaBionallyheldabove his head,
glancing now and then from underneath it. The face came once so near to
• Seven. See the other reports.-S. J. D.
Digitized by Coogle
485
me that it appeared to be only two feet from mine. I thus could examine it
closely. The eyes were stony and fixed and newr f1WI7ed once. The com-
plexion was not dusky, but very white; the expression was vacant and
listless. After remaining in the room for a few seconds, or rather a minute,
the apparition gradually rose, and appearod to pass clean through the ceiling,
brushing it audibly as it passed through. The ~ce here terminated ; the
gas was turned on again, and everything appeared the same u when we first
sat down; the door was unlocked, the seal being found intact. I will
mention t.hat during the whole of the ~ce I held Mr. Davey'S right hand,
with but one exception, when it wu found necessary for him to light the gu
to see to wind up the musical box, u it had stopped playing. Nothitlg teal
prepared beforehand; the Blame teal quite caauaZ; we could have sat in any
roo~ we wished, and we had full liberty to examine everything in the room,
even to the contents of Mr. Davey's pockets, which were emptied (before
beginning the ~ce) by him on the table before our eyes !
October 8th, 1886. JOHN H. RAlT.
Now I should have no hesitation whatever in challenging
Spiritualistic "mediums," or any other persons, to reproduce the
phenomena described in the various reports which I have quoted,
wndwr the conditions described by the witn688tJ8. I need hardly say that
not one of these detailed reports is accurate throughout, and that
scarcely one of them is accurate in even all the points of importance.
I think it undesirable at present to publish the details of my
methods, but I have communicated them to Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr.
Hodgson. I have also communicated them to Mr. Angelo J. Lewis,
known under the name of Professor Hoffmann as the author of
several books on conjuring and magic. Mr. Lewis sends me the
following statement:- .
I have read with much interest the foregoing reports of sittings with Mr.
Davey, testifying, as will be seen, to occurrences fully as striking and ap-
parently abnormal as anything recorded as having taken place at sittings with
Mr. Eglinton. I have since had the opportunity of discussing the matter
in detail with Mr. Davey, who has indicated how far the descriptions of the
sitters (though given in all good faith) diff'er from the actual occurrencea,
and has explained the various methods employed by him, some of such
methods being those in actual use by professional mediums in America and
elsewhere, and others the outcome of his own ingenuity. I have been
much struck wit.h their combined boldneBS and simplicity, and in view of
the complete illusion they admittedly have produced in so many cases, the
" doubt" which I expressed in the JO'I./,rnal of the Society for Psychical
Research for ..dugt'Bt, 1886, as to the possibility of the 1ohole of the Eglinton
manifestations being produced by trickery, has been greatly shaken. Mr.
Davey's successes prove that it is possible for a conjurer, devoting himself
specially to slate-writing feats, to produce, under the sam~extel"l1l'l
Digitized by ~qp8le
486 The Po88ibilitw of MalrOb8e'MJation, t/;c.
conditions, result. of precieely the aame kind and quality .. thOle produced by
the profeued medium. Indeed, in 10 far .. the conditions vary at all, they are
greatly in favour I)f the profeeaional medium, firat, by ~n of the prestige
derived from hiB claim to 8upernatural powers; and, aecondly, by ~n of
hia cherished privilege of producing no results at all unleu he may
consider it perfectly .fe to do 10.
I am not at liberty to divulge Mr. Davey'. method., nor would any goc.d
purpoae be aerved by doing 10 ; but I willingly certify, for the benefit of
any perlOn who may .till entertain a doubt upon the matter, that his
U manUeatations" are in every cue produced by perfectly natural means.
no Spiritualiatic or other unknown force having any part in them.
ANOBLO J. LBWIII.
(U Prof8llOr Hoffmann.")
Enough has been said, in the notes to the reports, to suggest to the
reader how wide a margin must be allowed for the possibilities of
misdescription in the numerous records to be found in Spiritualistic
literature, of occurrences described in much the same manner as those
which I produced by trickery. It seems to me not improbable that
had I claimed the agency of "spirits," the effect upon many of my
sitters would have been yet more impressive, and their reports
would have been still more wonderful. But my position debarred
me from more than one advantage which has been used, I believe, by
many a trickster" medium." I was unwilling, for instance, to trade
upon their emotions by professing to give messages from dead relatives
8Ild friends, as I might in many instances have done-thus rendering
the recipients of such messages less capable as observers of the
phenomena, and more prejudiced in favour of their genuineness. I
should find it very difficult myself to draw any line as to the possi-
bilities of mal·observation and lapse of memory in bln'6d.fok witnesses
beyond saying that I should allow for at leut as much as may be
exemplified in the foregoing reports.
I may here again remind my readers that it was not as a sceptic,
but as a believer in "psychography," that I originally approached
this investigation as to the results that might be produced by conjuring.
I gradually became convinced that my belief in " psychography"
was unjustified, that I could not attribute any value to the records of
sittings which I had with a professional medium in 1884, without
claiming a superiority which undoubtedly does not exist, to the
numerous witnesses of my own phenomena.
In some of my earlier experiments I believed that there were
indications of thought-transference between myself and my sitters.
My later sittings have offered no support to this view, but, owing
partly to my inexperience, I laboured sometimes under considerable
nervous excitement in my earlier sittings, and I have not felt this
latterly. This may have conduced to what occasionally seemed to me
Digitized by Coogle
Experimental Investigation. 487
to be a certain a.mount of community of thought between my sitters
and myself, and I hope' at some time to make a special series of
experiments for the purpose of ascertaining whether my conjecture
is well founded or not.
In conclusion, I may say that the results of my investigation as to
the possibilities of conjuring in relation to "psychography" have been
a. revelation to myself no less than to others. I am aware that in
addition to the methods which I have employed for producing" slate-
writing," there are other methods, which I know to be conjuring, but
which have not yet been shown to me; and I should certainly not be
convinced of the genuineness of Spiritualistic phenomena. of t1ris kind
by any testimony such as I have seen recently published in great
abundance, which presents so many close analogies to the reports of my
own conjuring performances.
APPENDIX.
Nota to SrrnNG I.
By S. J. DA.VEY.
[From notes made September 19th, 1886.]
1. Although Mr. Bait's slates did not leave the room during the Mance,
one of them W88 left unguarded on the table on one occaaion for about sixty
seconds.
2. The ohalks had been taken out of the box before the sMnco.
3. This W88 not invariably the 0888; Mr. Bait examined the chalks on
only two or three 00CBBi0ns.
4. I put the slate below the .ble, and after a while I 88ked Mr. Bait to
help me to hold it.
5. Immediately should be abootjO'lJlt' mi,,,,ta after the quufion 1DaI a.a j
another writing W88 produced in the interval. See Mr. Limmer's report
[c.c.].
6. It W88 I. not Mr. Bait, who suggested the ohange.
7. There is no mention, in either acoount, of my manipulations of the
alates after the experiment [g] W88 decided upon.
8. Mr. Bait omits to mention that this question had been asked early in
the sitting. See Mr. Limmer's report [e].
9. At the conclu8ion of the message Mr. Bait opened his envelope and I
saw "September," and W88 therefore able to impart this information on a
alate later on.
10. I "led up to " this request by Mr. Bait.
Digitized ~<;OP8Ie
488 The P088ib_'&68 of Mal-Observation, J:c. •
11. It is obvious that a few worda or sentences, or, if required, & long
meuage, can be produced on special occasions, from languages unfamiliar to
the "medium."
12. Mr. Bait did not take proper precautions for identifying the pencil.
13. It was a single alate that was used in experiment[l] ; see Mr. Bait's
report.
N otea to SIT'l'IliG H.
By RICHARD HODGSON.
[From notes made September 17th, 1886.]
1. Mrs. Y. does not mention that the alate was withdrawn more than
onae and plaeed on the table, and she apparently did not observe what D.
did with the alate on these occasions in the act of plaeing it under the table
again, and before Mias Y., who relinquiahed hold when the alate was on the
table, again took hold of it.
Mrs. Y alao does not say what the questions were. One of them, asked
by Mr. Y., was, "On what day do we sail for America 7" and another, asked
by herself, was, " Have I Kot over-shoes on 7" It is noteworthy that lat~r a
reply was obtained to this first question, which D. requested Mr. Y. to
repeat.
2. It was, however, written in an ordinary way. It was not the caaethat
neither Mr. D.'s hand nor Miss Y.'s moved in the least the whole time. Part
of the conjuring operation took place while Mias Y. was holding the
alate, and while the thumbs of D. and Miss Y. were both visible, but
anotber part of tbe operation took place in the intervaJa when Miss Y. was
not holding the alate.
3. Mrs. Y. might have added that tbree more candlea were burning on
tbe mantel-piece, and a lamp turned to tbe full on an adjoining table.
4. 1 incline to think that D. walked with Misa Y. close to the bookcase.
and waved hiB hand, requesting Mias Y. to choose a book.
[I did not remember this incident clearly when 1 made my note, my
attention having been drawn elsewhere while. Mias Y. was making her
selection. But I learn from Mr. Davey that I saw correctly. I remember
that after the writing had been produced, Mr. Y. asked Miss Y. if she had
gone alone to the bookcase, and she replied that she had, and that Mr.
Davey had remained by the table with his back towards her_ Hence,
probably, the agreement of the reports in the erroneous statement. I
conjecture that Mias Y. transposed Mr. Davey's actions on the two separate
occasions of her choice of a book. On the occasion of her first choice I
believe Mr. Davey did remain close to the table as abe deacribea.]
5. Miss Y. had thought of page 1, but no quotation had been given
from this page.
6. This statement is erroneous. Mrs. Y. had not the alate under her eye
the whole time, nor was it the case that either her daughter's hand or her
own was placed upon it continuously.
7. This atatement also is erroneous. The alates u.eed in the experimen'
Digitized by Coogle
Eaperime'ntal I'nvestigation.. 489
were, indeed, thOle which Mr. Y. had brought with him, but they were
taken and placed together by Mr. Davey.
8. Mrs. Yo's hand WaB removed from the slates during the experiment.
D. After the figure had been drawn and the name of the colour written
in the locked slate (away from the table, and out of the sight of D.) by Mr.
and MiIIIl Y., Mr. Y. named the ("oWur (only) aloud, at Mr. D.'s request.
10. MiIIIl Y. doea not mention the previoUB withdrawa.la of the slate. See
note 2, and Mr. Y's. report [a].
11. MiBII Y. henelf took the alate in her own hand with her to the
bookcaae, and brought it back to the table, without relinquishing hold. She
baa thus here forgotten a precaution which she really took.
12. MiIIIl Y.'sremembrance is here incorrect.
13. MiBII Y. wrote her description of this from her recollection of the
figure seen on the alate the night before, and she stated, after looking at the
slate, that she had jn memory confused the white and the so-called green
(which in daylight is at once seeD to be bZue). The Zong mark WaB blue, the
Ilhorl one WaB white.
14. I think that two out of the three books originally chosen had been
prevUmaZy replaced, the one chOlen by Miss Y. being one of them.
15. I chose mine by requesting Mr. Y. to take a number of chips of
pencil at random out of the box, which he did, the numben giving 7
and D.
16. Each wrote down on a slate the page and line he or she bad chosen,
so that D. could not see it, and then placed the slate, writing downwards, on
the table under his or her own charge. The numbers chosen were not
spoken aloud till after the final opening of the slate.
17. The slate WaB not guarded continuously during the interval between
the examination and the final opening.
18. I consider that the figure WaB a manifest attempt at a cross, three of
the limbs being clear, the fourth being only a scrawl. The marks forIDing
the .. cross " were in blue and white j there WaB also a red track on the slate.
ID. I have heard Mr. Y.'s explanations, but with the very partial excep-
tion of a portion of one of them they were incorrect, and I believe that
there WaB no thought-transference.
The reader should remember that the object of the notes to the various
reports is not, of course, to supply all their deficiencies, or even to point out
all the erron and omillllions noticed therein by Mr. Davey and myself. Some
of those erron and omiBBions the reader may discover for himself by a com-
parison of independent reports of the same Bitting. Let him compare, for
example, the three descriptions of [e] in Sitting IL, bearing in mind that Mr.
Y. knew all along that the perfonnances were conjuring, that MiBII Y. knew
this only just before writing her report, and that Mrs. Y. did not know it
until her report had been written. I agreed with Mrs. Y. that BOme of the
other chalka moved, besides the red piece, and that the figure produced on
the slate WaB clearly intended for a cross (and Mr. Davey af~rwards aBBUred
me that he had intended to draw a crou), and I have no doubt that Mr. Y.'s
description of the incident unduly diminiahPII the .. marvel" of the phe-
nomenon, just aB Mrs. Yo's unduly inCroaBOB it. . . G I
Digitized by oog e
490 Pke P088ibilities of Mal-ObservatiAm, Icc.
Note. to SIrl'ING III.
By RICIIABD HODGSON.
[From notes made September IS-15th, 1886.]
1. This was not the case. The alate was sometimes lying on the table,
with Mr. Legge's hand upon it; and he loat perception of iUora short period.
notwithstanding his vigilance.
2. Mr. Davey took the slate and asked Mr. Legge to hold it under the
table with him. After a short time the alate was withdrawn by both of them
at Mr. Davey's suggestion, but no writing was found upon it. When Mr.
Davey, alone, took hold of the slate again to place it under the table, he
used an opportunity, and Mr. Legge did not observe what was done. These
circumstances are omitted from Mr. Legge's report. The withdrawal which
in his report appears to have been the first, was in reality the eecond.
3. Mr. Legge did not act precisely as before. On the eecond and third
occaaions on which the alate was placed under the table, Mr. Legge did Dot
take hold of it until after it had been placed there by Mr. Davey.
4. Mr. Legge omits to notice that Mr. Davey had asked a question as to
whether any manifestations could be obtained.
5. The alate was neither selected nor placed by Mr. Legge. Mr. Davey
first placed some coloured nibs of chalk on the table just in front of Mr.
Legge. He then took one of his own slates which Mr. Legge had not
touched, and apparently sponged both sides thoroughly. Mr. Davey himself
then placed the slate over the pieces of chalk, and asked Mr. Legge to place
his hand upon the slate. Mr. Legge then for the first time touched the slate.
6. Mr. Legge has omitted to mention more than one important previoll&
detail concerning the locked alate. After locking it, he first, at Mr. Davey's
request, put it in his pocket, also the key. Later on, he was requested by
Mr. Davey to bring it out and place it on the table and put his hand upon it.
first opening it to see if any writing was in it, and locking it again, and
taking poaseBBion of the key. It lay on the table thus some time, and Mr.
Davey found an opportunity of manipulating it. (See Note I.) Mr. Legge's
great care over some precautions was the very cause of his neglect of others.
7. In addition to the lamp, there were four candles burning the whole
time. Three of them were on the mantel-piece. I do not recollect whether
the fourth was on the mantel-piece or on one of the tables.
Notes to SIrl'ING IV.
By RICHARD HODGSON.
[From notes made September 22nd, 1886.]
L The alates were both .f thElm Mr. Padshah's, but I cannot rocollect that;
either of them was washed by any person, and I find upon inapection_
they are still in my possession-that they were certainly not washed.
Digitized by Coogle
Experi;mental I nVe8tigatum. 491
2. Mr. Padahah baa omitted to mention myself. I sa.t between Mr.
RUBlell and Hughes.
3. I do not myself remember. Mr. RU88ell states that it was washed by
Mr. Davey, and M1'8. RU88ell states that it was washed by Mr. Padahah
himself.
4. I thought the selection at t.hat time had reference to the writing on
the alate held underneath the table.
5. See note 15.
6. Mr. Padahah does not sa.y that it was Mr. Davey who suggeated that
writing between the two alates should be asked for.
7. The word rea.lly writ.ten, 88 I learn from Mr. Davey, was "Books,"
and was thus curiously misread byMr. Padshah, who had, he tells us near the
beginning of his report, suggeated the importance of getting" my own name
-not surname-which no one except myself in the room knew." I believe
that no one in the room except Mr. Padahah knew that his initial name was
Roorz'U, in the original Pe1'8ian. Mr. Davey had written " Books" in order
to suggest the experiment with a book, which was afterwards carried out.
Mr. Padahah had apparently been much impressed with the idea of getting
his ti1'8t name written, and it is no matter for surprise that, with such a
dominant idea, he should interpret a scrawly Books into a Boon. It was
just Mr. Padshah's devotion to his test that produced the illusion.
8. Not cracks, but a peculiar chip in the frame on one side, which I had
observed closely when Mr. Padahah fil'It showed me his slates.
9. Mr. Padshah had not examined them.
10. What Mr. Padahah describes as a " push "was merely the result of
the shaking of Mr. Davey's handa in his endeavour to produce the appearance
of " convulsive movements."
11. None of Mr. Padshah's colleagues expreaaed any opinion as to the
manner of the production of the writing, and it was explained before the
aeance that the reports written should be as independent as pOBBible.
12. Notwithstanding Mr. Padahah's confidence on this point, this" con-
temptible " theory is the true one; his attention WIlo8 actually diverted
from the locked slate, and for some time he entirely lost perception of it
although it was then lying on the table. His confidence on this point is a
striking illustration of the influence of temporary forgetfulneBB, which not
improbably would have become permanent had he not, after giving me his
report, made further efforts of recollection after I had told him that the
alate-writing was due to conjuring. He wrote his report on the night ot the
sitting, beginning shortly after the sitting was over. He gave me his report.
as soon as he had finished it, and I then &BBured him that the alate-writing
in every C8.1!e waa the result of conjuring, that the writing on the slate W88
not " precipitated," but waa ordinary writing with a alate pencil, and that he
had actually lost sight of the slate during the sitting. He then Ilndeavoured
again to reca.ll the events of the sitting, and succeeded eventually in recol-
lecting the particular oCC8.l!ion when an opportunity was given to Mr. Davey
of dealing with the locked slate unobserved.
[I did nf)t then inform Mr. Padahah whether he was right or not in this
recollect.ion, and his temporary forgetfulneBB 1uu become permanent.
Apparently he afterwards quite forgot the occaaion when he ga.ve Mr. Davey
Digitized by Coogle
492 The P088ibilitia of Mal-Obsermtion, tl;c.
the opportunity to produce the m~e, and he wrote to me on November
21st, 1886: .. I now imagine Davey wrote while he Itudioualy directed my
attention to a variety of books, and naturally abeebt-minded, my attention
W81 abaorbed with a view to make a judicioUi selection, thUi withdrawing my
eye from the "ate itself. Whether it is 10 or not, I think it is more thaD
pouible it might have been done that way." During this incident, however,
-unfortunately for Mr. Davey-Mr. Padahah had taken the locked alate with
him and carefully guarded it; _ Mr. RUllell'1 report [g]. ]
13. 1 leam from Mr. Padahah that he hu had sittings with Eglinton
when "phenomena .. occurred, that he W&l not convinced by them "of lOme-
thing abnormal," and that he wu much more impl'8lled by the sitting with
Hr. Davey.
1'. Mr. RUlleU took very little Ihare in the talking, and can be hazdly
..id to have joined in the converaation at all !
15. Mr. RUIleU here Itltes that the " Yea .. and the" 6" were found at
the ame time on the elate. My remembrance &I to this point is not vivid,
but it agreel with Mr. RulleD'l. From Mr. Padahah'l report it would appear
that there were ttoo withdrawals, the firat for the "6," the I8CODd for the
••Yes." Mn. RUlleU alao makes two withdrawals, but revenee the sequence,
tlking the fint for the yu, and the I800nd for the "6." The circ11lDltaDoe.
occurred, I think, in the following order :-
Mr. Padahah 11'81 in the firat place ..ked to think of a number; later,
Hr. Davey put the qU8ltion .. to whether there would beany manifeatltioDL
When the Ilate 11'&1 withdrawn, the yu W&l first ~ then the 6.
16. Mr. RUlleU mak81 this ltatement 81 though he had read and distin-
guished the letters hiJJll8lf, which 1 believe W&l not the Clse. [I have since
learnt that he did not see the word at all, 81 it W81 10 hutily wiped away
by Mr. Davey.]
17. I think that Mr. Davey turned the two elatea over together in the act
of placing them on Mr. Padllhah'llIhoulder, not in the act of replacing them
on the table. [Mr. Davey ten. me that Mr. RUllell is right; Mr. Hughes
agreed with me.]
18• .BZI~. See Note 22.
19. Mr. RUlieU made a very few brief notes during the litting, but did
not Ule these in writing hie report.
20. There il a drawer at one end only of the table. Mrs. RUllell probably
inferred that there wall a drawer at the other end, where, however, the table
baa never been fitted for a drawer. The table is perfectly honest, and the
drawer h81 never been ueed by Mr. Davey.
21. It wall Mr. RUlleU who chose red, and Mrs. RUlleU adopted his
choice.
22. There were chalks offive colours between the alatea, red, green, blue,
yeUow, and white. The" blue" writing afterwards exhibited appeared in the
then light to be of a greenish tinge, and &I attention wall drawn to the writing'lI
being green, Mr. Davey abstracted the blue piece of chalk that had been
between the llates, probably 10 that if inv8ltigation of the chalb were made,
it might be said that &I there 11'&1 no blue between the elates, green had been
used. In daylight the writing 11'81 at once seen to be blue. Mr. DaYeY'1
manipulation of the chalb 11'81 not observed by any of the other litten, and
Digitized by Coogle
Experim.ental Investigation. 493
I mention it as typical of many incidents which occurred at the sittings where
I W8.8 present, and which in some ca.ses were of the utmost importance, but
were entirely unnoticed by even the keenest of the uninitiated witnelllMlll.
Nota to SrrmI'G VIII.
By R. HODGSON AND J. M. DODDS.
1. I had lOme converaation with Mr. Dodds on the day after he finished
hia report, and notwithstanding his close observation during the sitting, and
the great care which he had taken to record accurately the e"ents which he
bad witneBBed, he agreed with me concerning particular lapses of observation
and memory, which have produced some errol'll in his report. That he did not
diacover Mr. Davey's mod", opemtidi in producing the writing was due chiefly
to mal-observation, but mal-observation of a kind that perhaps the keenest'
uninitiated witneu would find it almost impossible to avoid. Mr. Dodds at
one time or another had lost perception of each slate upon which writing was
produced. One of the instances of lapse of memory is worth specifying
because it illustrates tendencies to which I have previously adverted,-the
tendency to minimise the marvel of a phenomenon known to be due to
conjuring, and, poBBibly, the tendenoy to represent a subsequent impreBBion
as having been experienced during the Bitting.
The word Yu found written upon the slate 11'&8 the word desired by Mr.
Dodds himself, his question on the double-slate having been given up for the
time for the expreBB purpose of obtaining some simple phenomenon which
11'&8 not to be regarded &8 a test, but merely &8 a "start." Mr. Davey had
suggested that we should try to get some simple word written such &8 00 or
yu, that if writing once began, 'we should probably" get plenty of it," and
test questions could be attempted later. Mr. Dpdds aBBented to this. Hence
neither Mr. Davey nor myself expected Mr. Dodds to be specially influenced
by the production of the word, though he appeared to be much more
impreBBed in the. fil'llt instance than he afterwards, when writing his report,
supposed himself to have been.-R. H.
On ta1king over the sitting with Mr. Hodgson, two days afterwards,
I agreed with him that in my account of the production of the word "Yes,"
my memory played me false, and I unconsciously minimised the result; and
that his account given above is the correct one.-J. M. D.
2. This happened accidentally, and it 11'&8 Mr. Davey who drew attention
to~ ~~n
3. I chose this book because I happened to have been reading another of
Tait&e', boob in my chambel'll on the morning of the day of my sitting.
J.M.D.
4. At this stage, had Mr. Davey been a profeBBiona.1 medium, he would
perhaps have expressed surprise at the prematurely discovered writing, and
passed it off &8 an unexpected production of the "spirits," remarking that
the lOund of the writing W&8 not always heard by the Bittel'll, and that oven
the medium himself could not always tell when it 11'&8 being ptQd.uced. lIt
Digitized by ~008 e
40940 The P088ibilities 0/ Mal-Observation, ~c.
would have been difficult for Mr. Dodds to have explained. how, under the
conditiona .. deacribed by him, the writing, covering a aide of one of hia own
slates, could by any pouibility have been produced by Mr. Davey himaelf.
R. H.
Nota to SlTl'lNO XIV.
By RlCJURD HOOOSON.
[From notes made March 26th, 1887.]
1. According to my recollection, Mr. Davey uaed both handa in placing
the tiates under t.he table, and again in the course of replacing them upon the
table, but his left hand did not remain below the table in any instance for a
longer interval than-I should name .. a maximum limit-ten aeconcia.
2. The word "Commandment" end. at. the edge of the alate, but it begins
very nearly at the centre of the slate, and is written almOit parallel with the
longer axil of the slate, traversing rather more than half the length of the
slate surface. The BCrawled words" SeventY-Beven" are written diagonally,
very nearly acroll the centre of the alate, and the number 77 is in a aimilar
position on the other side of the centre. The writing intended for Hong-
Kong is in a position IOmewhat to the right of the centre. The slatea are
still in my po.._ion.
Nota to SlTl'lNO XV.
By Ma. SIOOWICK.
1. According to my independent notu (made Nov. 17th, 1885), the
locked slate 11'&1 at this period examined and 11'&1 blank.
2. According to my noteB "this moment" 11'&1 of sufficient duration to
give plenty of time and opportunity to write the meuage.
3. I infer from my noteB and recollection that no examination of the alate
11''' made at thiB period, for I had in my mind at t.he time two pouible 8X-
planations of t.he trick, and any Buch examination would have been incom-
patible with either. Moreover, Mr. Davey UBurea me that from the way in
which the trick actually 11'&1 done he knows that the alate cannot have been
examined at this point. Mias SymonB mOlt have tranapoaed the examination
which I record .. having taken place earlier (188 Note I), to this period.
Nota to SlTTING XVI.
By MBS. SIOOWlCK.
1. According to my notes (made Feb. 23rd. 1886), Mr. Davey had ODe
round-cornered alate among hiB, though I noticed, &I I thought, decided
diJrerences between it and Miaa Symons'. This is worth mentioning, &I
Digitized by Coogle
Eaperilrnental I'I/,vestigatio'n. 495
showing a dift"erence of opinion on a point which we both thought we observed
particularly. Beaidea omissions, there are at least two important positive
miadeacriptions, which I am not at liberty to specify further, in Mias
Symons' account of the first incident of the Hance. I well remember
the impreBBion which this incident made on me at the time. I could
not make it out at all. I believe I thought it more puzzling than any
professed Spiritualistic phenomena I have seen, &BIuming theae latter to
be conjuring. There seemed leas possibility of its having been done by con-
juring. The hypotheaia of the change of slates, which at first did not seem
to be pouible---and which wu, in fact, as Mr. Davey &SImes me, erroneous-
never seemed plausible; only I was unable to think of any other explanation
at all. The reason it puzzled me so much was that. I thought I knew pretty
well the poBBibilitiea of slate.writing, and there seemed to be no loop-hole
here for any of them. It may interest the reader to compare my own
account of the incident :-
" Miu Symons' two slates were held together on the table and under the
table by her and Mr. Davey. Then one of Mr. Davey's square-cornered
Blatea was substituted for one of them; then again removed and the two
round-cornered ones again held, on the ground that though it might be easier
to get writing on Mr. Davey's slate, it would be more satisfactory to get it on
MiBB iymons'. We waited a considerable time. Mr. Davey asked me to
draw the curtains between the two rooms. Then we again sat as before; the
two slates on one another on the table and our handa on them. The sound of
writing was heard, and. presently, on looking between the two alatea, one of
them was found to be written on all over one side. I cannot remember every
detail of what occurred, but the impreuion produced on my mind moat dia-
tinctly was that one of MiBB Symons' slates had been written on all over one
aide [the impreBBion was so far true], and that there had been no poBBible
opportunity for Mr. Davey to have done thia. The slate seemed to have
been on the table with our handa on it from the moment we had seen it
clean. I do not know what happened while I drew the curtain, but cannot
conceive its having been done then. Mr. Davey and Mias Symons still sat
at the table, and even if there had been opportunity there was no time."
2. According to my notes it was for the first of the three book experi-
ments that the paper and lead pencil were used, and Mr. Davey agreed with
me. The paperwas S.P.R. paper, and Mr. Davey tore off a comer forfurther
identification.
3. "Another trick" was Mr. Davey's own expression.
4. The word was, however, then already on the slate.
Digitized by Coogle /
496 .Mtdtip~ Personality.
VII.
MULTIPLEX PERSONALITY.
By FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
·00"0"011 "" moio, IUT'cI>VJI, T"OO-OII 4p O"c/>WIJI aM
lI:a1 T"c\ q,powill mom 'fraplO"T"ar'o.
I purpose in this paper briefly to suggest certain topics for
reflection,-topics which will need to be more fully worked out else-
where. My theme 18 the multiplex and mutable character of that
which we know a.s the Personality of man, and the practical advantage
which we may gain by discerning and working upon this a.s yet
unrecognised modifiability. I shall begin by citing a few examples of
hysterical transfer, of morbid disintegration; I shall then show that
these spontaneous readjustments of man's being are not all of them
pathological or retrogressive j nay, that the familiar changes of slAep
and waking contain the hint of further alternations which may be
beneficially acquired. And, la.stly, I shall point out that we can
already by artificial means induce and regulate some central nervous
changes which effect physical and moral good j changes which may be
more restorative than s}eep, more rapid than education. Here, I shall
urge, is an avenue open at once to scientific and to philanthropic
endeavour, a hope which hangs neither on fable nor on fancy, but is
ba.sed on actual experience and consists with rational conceptions of
the genesis and evolution of man.
I begin, then, with one or two examples of the pitch to which the
dissociation of memories, faculties, sensibilities may be ca.tried, without
resulting in mere insane chaos, mere demented oblivion. These ca.ses
a.s yet are few in number. It is only of late yea.rs-and it is mainly
in France-that BfWMIt& have recorded with due care those psychical
lessons, deeper than any art of our own can teach us, which natural
anomalies and aberrant instances afford.
Pre-eminent among the priceless living documents which Dature
thus offers to our study stand the singular personages known as
Louis V. and Felida X. Felids's name at least is probably familiar to
most of my readers; but Louis V.'s case is little known, and although
some a.ccount of it has already been given in English,l it will be
1 JoumaJ. of Mmtal ScilmC6 for Juuary, 1886.
8. P. R., Part X., 1886.
Digitized by Coogle
Multiplex Per8onality. 497
needful to recall certa.in particulars in order to introduce the specula-
tions which follow.
Louis V. began life (in 1863) as the neglected child of a
turbulent mother. He was sent to a reformatory a.t ten years old,
and there showed himself, as he has always done when his organisa-
tion has given him a chance, quiet, well-behaved, and obedient.
Then at fourteen years old he had a great fright from a viper-a
fright which threw him off his balance and started the series of
psychical oscillations on which he has been tossed ever since. At
tirst the symptoms were only physical, epilepsy and hysterical paralysis
of the legs; and at the asylum of Bonneval, whither he was next
sent, he worked at tailoring steadily for a couple of months. Then
suddenly he had a hystero-epileptic attack-fifty hours of convulsions
and ecstasy--and when he awoke from it he was no longer paralysed,
no longer acquainted with tailoring, and no longer virtuous. His
memory was set back, so to say, to the moment of the viper's appear-
ance, and he could remember nothing since. His character had
become violent, greedy, and quarrelsome, and his tastes were radically
changed. For instance, though he had before the attack been a
total abstainer, he now not only drank his own wine but stole the
wine of the other patients. He escaped from Bonneval, and after a
few turbulent years" tracked by his occasional relapses into hospital
or madhouse, he turned up once more at the Rochefort asylum in
the character of a private of marines, convicted of theft but con-
sidered to be of unsound mind. And at Rochefort and La. Rochelle,
by great good fortune, he fell into the hands of three physicians-
Professors Bourru and Burot, and Dr. Mabille-able and willing to
continue and extend the observations which Dr. Camuset at Bonneval
and Dr. Jules Voisin at Bic41tre had already made on this most
precious of mauvais BUje" at earlier points in his chequered career'!
He is now no longer at Rochetort, and Dr. Burot informs me that
his health has much improved, and that his peculiarities have in
great part disappeared. I must, however, for clearness' sake, use the
present tense in briefly describing his condition at the time when
the long series of experiments were made.
The state into which he has gravitated is a very unpleasing one.
There is paralysis and insensibility of the right side, and (as is often
the case in right hemiplegia) the speech is indistinct and difficult.
1 For Dr. Camnset's account see AnnaluMUico.Pyschologiquu, 18R2, p.75;
for Dr. Voisin's, Archi"u de NlWTOlogie, September, 1885. The observations at
Rochefort have been carefully recorded by Dr. Berjon, La Grande HlI,th'ie chez
I'Homme, Paris, 1886, and by Drs. Bourru and Burot in a treatise, De la 1I1I!J-
gutUm mentale. &c. (Bibl. acientVique contempoNJi1l6). Paris, 1887
C I
Digitized by oog e
498
Nevertheless he is constantly haranguing anyone who will listen to
him, abusing his physicians, or preaching, with a monkey-like impu-
dence rather than with reasoned clearness, radicalism in politica and
atheism in religion. He makes bad jokes, and if anyone pleaSes
him he endeavours to caress him. He remembers recent events
during his residence at the Rochefort asylum, but only two scraps of
his life before that date-namely, his vicious period at Bonneval and
a part of his stay at Bicatre.
Except this strangely fragmentary memory there is nothing very
unusual in this condition, and in many asylums no experiments on it
wou1d have betan attempted. Fortunately the physicians of R0che-
fort were familiar with the efficacy of the contact of metals in
provoking transfer of hysterical hemiplegia from one side to the
other. They tried various metals in turn on Louis V. Lead, silver.
and zinc had no effect. Copper produced a slight return of sensi-
bility in the paralysed arm. But Bteel, applied to the right arm,
transferred the whole insensibility to the left side of the body.
Inexplicable aa Buch a phenomenon certainly is, it is aufficiently
common (as French physicians hold) in hysterical cases to excite
little surprise. What puzzled the doctors was the change of
character which accompanied the change of aensibility. When
Louis V. issued from the crisis of transfer, with its minute of
anxious expression and panting breath, he was what might fairly be
called a new man. The restless insolence, the savage impulsiveneas,
have wholly disappeared. The patient is now gentle, respectful, and
modest. He can speak clearly now, but he only apeaka when he is
spoken to. If he is aaked his views on religion and politica, he
prefers to leave Buch matters to wiaer heads than his own. It might
seem that morally and intellectually the patient'B cure had been
complete.
But now ask him what he thinks of Rochefort; how he liked his
regiment of marines. He will blankly answer that he knows nothing
of Rochefort, and was never a soldier in his life. "Where are you,
then, and what is the date of to-day1" "I am at Bicetre; it is
January 2nd, 1884; and I hope to see M. Voisin to-day, aa I did
yesterday."
It is found, in fact, that he has now the memory of two short periods
of life (different from thoae which he remembers when his right side
is paralysed), periods during which, so far aa can now be ascertained,
his character waa of thia same decorous type and his paralysis was OD
the left side.
Theae two conditions are what are now termed his first and his
second, out of a aeries of six or more through which he can be made
to pass. For brevitY'B sake I will further describe his fifth state only.
Digitized by Coogle
Multip~ Per8onality. 499
If he is placed in an electric bath, or if a magnet be placed on
his head, it looks at first sight as though a complete physical cure had
been effected. All paralysis, all defect of sensibility, has disappeared.
HiiI movements are light and active, his expression gentle and timid.
Eut ask him where he is, and you find that he has gone back to a boy
elf fourteen, that he is at St. Urbain, his first reformatory, and that his
memory embraces his years of childhood, and stops short on the very day
when he had the fright with the viper. If he is pressed to recollect the
incident of the viper a violent epileptiform crisis puts a sudden end to
this phase of his personality.
Is there, then, the reader may ask, any assignable law which
governs these strange revolutions 1 any reason why Louis V. should at
one moment seem a mere lunatic or savage, at another moment should
rise into decorous manhood, at another should recover his physical
soundness, but sink backward in mind into the child1 Briefly,and
with many reserves and technicalities perforce omitted, the view of the
doctors who have watched him is somewhat as follows: A sudden
shock, falling on an unstable organisation, has effected in this boy a
profounder severance between the functions of the right and left hemi-
spheres of the brain than has perhaps ever been observed before. We
are accustomed, of course, to see the right side of the body paralysed
and insensible in cOnsequence of injury to the left hemisphere, which
governs it, and vice versa. And we are accustomed in hysterical cases
-cases where there is no actual traceable injury to either hemisphere
-to see the defects in sensation and motility shift rapidly-shift, as I
may say, at a touch-from one side of the body to the other. But we
cannot usually trace any corresponding change in the mode of
functioning of what we assume as the "highest centres," the centres
which determine those manifestations of intelligence, character,
memory, on which our identity mainly depends. Yet in some cases of
apluuria and of other forms of asemia (the loss of power over Big'IUI,
spoken or written words and the like) phenomena have occurred which
have somewhat prepared us to find that the loss of power to use the
left-which certainly is in some ways the more developed-hemisphere
may bring with it a retrogression in the higher characteristics of
human life. And the singular phenomenon of automatic writing (as I
have previously tried to showl ) seems often to depend on an obscure
action of the less-used hemisphere. Those who have followed these
lines of observation may be somewhat prepared to think it possible
that in Louis V.'s case the alternate predominance of right or left
hemisphere affects memory and character as well as motor and sensory
innervation. Inhibit his left brain (and right side) and he becomes,
1 Procuding80/ the S.P.R., VoL III. .. G I
Digitized by oog e
500 Multiplu Per80'Mlity.
.. one may say, not only left-handed but ..,,"Wi'..he manifests himself
through nervous arrangements which have reached a lower degree of
evolution. And he can represent in memory those periods only when
his personality had assumed the same attitude, when he had crystallised
about the same point.
Inhibit his right brain, and the higher qualities of character
remain, like the power of speech, intact. There is self~ntrol; there
is modesty; there is the sense of duty-the qualities which man bas
developed .. he has risen from the savage level. But nevertheless he
is only half himself. Besides the hemiplegia, which is a matter of
course, memory is truncated too, and he can summon up only such
fragments of the past as chance to have been linked with this one
abnormal &taw, leaving unrecalled not only the period of sinister
inward ascendency, but the normal period of childhood, before his
Wuen was thus cloven in twain. And now if by some art we can
restore the equipoise of the two hemispheres again, if we can throw
him into a state in which no physical trace is left of the severance
which has become for him a second nature, what may we expect to find
as the psychical concomitant of this restored integrity' What we do
find is a change in the patient which, in the glimpse of psychical
possibilities which it offers us, is among the most interesting of all.
He is, if I may so say, born again; he becomes .. a little child; he
is set back in memory, character, knowledge, powers, to the days
before this trouble came upon him or his worse self assumed its
away.
I have begun with the description of an extreme case, a case which
to many of my readers may seem incredible in its bi~. But
though it is extreme it is not really isolated; it is approached from
different sides by cases already known. The mere resumption of life
at an earlier moment, for instance, is of course only an exaggeration of
a phenomenon which frequently appears after cerebral injury. The
trainer, stunned by the kick of a horse, completes his order to loosen
the girths the moment that trepanning has been successfully performed.
The old lady struck down at a card party, and restored to consciousness
after long insensibility, surprises her weeping family by the inquiry,
" What are trumps 7" But in these common cases there is but a
morsel cut out of life; the personality reawakens as from sleep and
is the same as of old. With Louis V. it is not thus; the memories
of the successive stages are not lost but juxtaposed, .. it were,
in separate compartments; nor can one say what epochs are in truth
intercalary, or in what central chann"l the stream of his being
flows.
Self-severances profound .. Louis V.'s are naturally to be sought
Digitized by Coogle
501
Dlainly in the lunatic asylum.l There indeed we find duplicated
individuality in its grotesquer forms. We have the man who has
always lost himself and insists on looking for himself under the bed.
We have the man who maintains that there are two of him, and sends
his plate a second time, remarking, "I have had plenty, but the other
fellow has not." We have the man who maintains that he is himself
and his brother too, and when asked how he can possibly be both at
once, replies, "Oh, by a different mother."
Or sometimes the personality oscillates from one focus to another,
and the rival impulses, which in us merely sway different moods,
objectify themselves each in a per80na. of its own. An hysterical
penitent believes herself one week to be "Sceur Marthe des Cinq
Plaies," and the next week relapses into an imaginary "Madame Poul-
maire," with tastes recalling a quite other than conventual model.
Another patient seems usually sane enough, but at intervals he lets his
beard grow, and is transformed into a swaggering lieutenant of
artillery. The excess over, he shaves his beard and becomes once more
a lucid though melancholy student of the early Fathers. Such changes
of character, indeed, may be rapid and varied to any extent which the
patient's experience of life will allow. In one well-known case a poor
lady varied her history, her character, even her sex, from day to day.
One day she would be an emperor's bride, the next an imprisoned
statesman-
Juvenis qnondam, nunc femina, Creneus,
R1U'II118 et in veterem fato revolnta fignram.
Yet more instructive, though often sadder still, are the cases where
the disintegration of personality has not reached the pitch of insanity,
but has ended in a bewildered impotence, in the horror of a lifelong
dream. Speaking generally, such cases fall under two main heads--
those where the loss of control is mainly over motor centres, and the
patient can feel but canno~ act ; and those where the loss of control is
mainly over 86'11.801''!1 centres, and the patient acts but cannot feel.
Inability to act just as we would wish to act is a trouble in which
we most of us share. We probably have moods in which we can even
sympathise with that provoking patient of Esquirol's who, after an
attack of monomania, recovered all those social gifts which made him
the delight of his friends, but could no longer be induced to give five
minutes' attention to the most urgent business. " Your advice," he said
cordially to Esquirol, " is thoroughly good. I should ask nothing better
than to follow it, if you could further oblige me with the power to will
1 The ca.see cited here come mainly from Kriahaber'a NMmJpa.t/&" C~,.tbro·
cardiaque. Several ofthem will be found cited in Ribot'a admirable monograph
Maladies de la Peraonnal'U.
Digitized by C?obgle
502 Multiplez Per8O'1UJlity.
what I please." Sometimes the whole life is spent in the endeavour to
perform trifling acts-as when a patient of M. Billod's spent nearly an
hour in attempting to make the flourish under his signature to a
power of attorney ; or tried in vain for three hours, with hat and gloves
on, to leave his room and go out to a pageant which he much wished to
Bee. Such cases need heroic treatment, and this gentleman had the
luck to be caught and cured by the Revolution of 1848.
Still more mournful are the cases where it is mainly the sensory
centres which lie, as it were, outside the personality; where thought
and will remain intact, but the world around no longer stirs the wonted
feelings, nor can reach the solitary BOUL "In all my acts one thing is
lacking-the sense of eBort that should accompany them, the sense of
pleasure that they should yield." "All things," said another sufferer,
"are immeasurably distant from me ; they are covered with a heavy
air." "Men seem to move round me," said another, "like mo\ing
shadows." And gradually this sense of ghostly vacancy extends to the
patient's own person. "Each of my senses, each part of me, is separate ,
from myself." "J'existe, mais en dehors de III. vie reelle." It is as
though Teiresias, who alone kept his true life in unsubstantial Hades,
should at last feel himself dream into a shade.
Sometimes the regretful longing turns into a bitter sense of exile,
of banishment, of fall from high estate. There are words that remind
us of the passionate protestations of Empedocles, refusing to accept
this earth as his veritable home. KAaiicrd .,., lCallCo.lCVCTa, said the Sicilian
of Sicily, zacll. cUrv.,q8,a Xo.po. (" I wept and lamented, looking on a land
to me unwonted and unknown "). "Lorsque je me trouvais seul," said
a patient of Krishaber's, "dans un endroit nouveau, j'etais comme un
enfant nouveau-ne, ne reconnai88&nt plus rien. J'avais un ardent desir
de revoir mon ancien monde, de redevenir l'ancien moi; c'eat ce desir
qui m'a emp~che de me tuer."
These instances have shown us the retrogrtlBftw change of per-
sonality, the dissolution into inco-ordinate elements of the polity of our
being. We have seen the state of man like a city blockaded, like a
great empire dying at the core. And of course a spontaneous, ungtAided
disturbance in a machinery 80 complex is likely to alter it more often
for the worse than for the better. Yet here we reach the very point
which I most desire to urge in this paper. I mean that even these
spontaneous, these unguided disturbances, do sometimes effect a change
which is a marked improvement. Apart from all direct experiment
they show us that we are in fact capable of being reconstituted after an
improved pattern, that we may be fused and recrystallised into greater
darity ; or, let us say more modestly, that the shifting sand-heap of our
being will sometimes suddenly settle itself into a new attitude of more
assured equilibrium.
Digitized by Coogle
Multip~ Per8onality. 503
Among cases of this kind which have thus far been recorded, none
is more striking than that of Dr. Amm's often quoted patient,
Ftilida X.l
Many of my readers will remember that in her case the somnam-
bullc life has become the normal life; the "second state," which
appeared at first only in short, dream-like accesses, has gradually
replaced the" first state," which now recurs but for a few hours at long
intervals. But the point on which I wish to dwell is this: that
Felida's second state is altogether superio'T' to the first-physically
superior, since the nervous pains which had troubled her from child-
hood have disappeared ; and morally superior, inasmuch as her morose,
self-centred disposition is exchanged for a cheerful activity which
enables her to attend to her children and her shop much more effec-
tively than when she was in the" etat Mte," as she now calls what was
once the only personality that she knew. In this case, then, which is
now of nearly 30 years' standing, the spontaneous readjustment of
nervous activities-the second state, no memory of which remains in
the first state-has resulted in an improvement profounder than could
have been anticipated from any moral or medical treatment that we
know. The case shows us how often the word " normal " means nothing
more than" what happens to exist." For Ftilida's normal state was in
fact her mo'T'bid state; and the new condition, which seemed at first a
mere hysterical abnormality, has brought her to a life of bodily and
mental sanity which makes her fully the equal of average women of her
class.
Now, before we go further, let us ask ourselves whether this result,
which sounds so odd and paradoxical, ought in reality to surprise us.
Had we any reason for supposing that changes as profound as Felida's
need alwo.ys be for I;he worse, that the phase of personality in which
we happen to find ourselves is the phase in which, given our innate
capacities, it is always best for us to be 1
To make this question more intelligible, I must have recourse to
a metaphor. Let us picture the human brain as a vast manufactory,
in which thousands of looms, of complex and differing patterns, are
habitually at work. These looms are used in varying combinations;
but the main driving-bands, which connect them severally or collectively
with the motive power, remain for the most part unaltered.
Now, how do I come to have my looms and driving-gear arranged
in this particular way 1 Not, certainly, through any deliberate choice
of my own. My ancestor the ascldian, in fact, inherited the business
when it consisted of little more than a single spindle. Since his day
1 For the fullest account of Felids., Bee Hypnotisme, Dou.ble Co7l8Ciena, &c.,
par Ie Dr. Azam. Paris, 1887.
Digitized by GQqgle
Multiplex Per8onality,
my nearer ancestors have added loom after loom. Some of their looms
have fallen to pieces unheeded j others have been kept in repair because
they suited the style of order which the firm had at that time to meet.
But the class of orders received has changed very rapidly during the
last few hundred years. I have now to try to turn out altruistic
emotions and intelligent reasoning with machinery adapted to self-
preserving fierceness or manual toil. And in my efforts to readjust and
reorganise I am hindered not only by the old-fashioned type of the
looms, but by the inconvenient disposition of the driving-gear. I
cannot start one useful loom without starting a dozen others that are
merely in the way. And I cannot shift the driving-gea.r to suit myself,
for I cannot get at much of it without stopping the engines, and if I
stopped my engines I should not know how to set them going again.
In this perplexity I watch what happens in certain factories-FtUida's,
for instance-where the hidden part of the machinery is subject to
certain dangerous jerks or dislocations, after which the gearings shift
of themselves and whole groups of looms are connected and disconnected
in a novel manner. From hence I get at least a hint as to the concealed
attachments; and if I see that new arrangement working well I have
an object to aim at; I can try to produce a similar change, though a
smaller one, among my own looms and by my own manipulation.
For even if these profoundest spontaneous changes are beyond the
reach of imitation, there are smaller changes, long familiar to us, which
we now see in a new light, as imitable in a manner which shall
reproduce their advantages without their drawbacks. There is the
painless trance which sometimes supervenes in hysteria; there is the
action of alcohol; there is especially the action of opium, which from
the first commended itself by its psychical effect, by the emotional
tranquillity which it induces. Such at least seems to be the inference
from the well-known passage where the wifely Helen determines to
give her husband and his friends the chance of talking comfortably,
without interrupting themselves by perpetual tears and lamentations.
Thon heaven-born Helen in their cups would throw
Neponthes, woeless banisher of woe:
This whoso drank daylong no tear should shed-
No, though he gazed on sire aBd mother dead ;
No, though his own son on that. dreamy day
Before his own eyes raging foes should slay.1
The successive discoveries of intoxicants, narcotics proper, and
anlllSthetics formed three important stages in our growing control over
the nervous system. Mesmer's discovery, or rather his rediscovery of a
process probably at least as old as Solon, marked an epoch of quite
1 Od. iv. 219.
Digitized by Coogle
Multiplex Per8onality. 5Q5
equal significance. And the refinements on Mesmer's process which
this century has seen, the discoveries linked with the names of
Puys~gur, Esdaile, Braid, Charcot, &c., though often set forth with an
air of controversy rather than of co-operation, will gradually be
recognised as mutually concordant elements in a new branch of moral
as well as physical therapeutics. Nay, it is a nascent art of self-
modification; a system of pulleys (to return to our previous metaphor),
by which we can disjoin and reconnect portions of our machinery which
admit of no directer access;
One or two brief instances may indicate the moral and the physical
benefits which hypnotisation is bringing within the range of practical
medicine. And first 1 will cite one of the cases-rare as yet-where
an insane person has been hypnotised with permanent benefit.1
In the summer of 1884: there was at the Sal~triere a young
woman of a deplorable type. Jeanne Sch-- '\fas a criminal lunatic,
filthy in habits, violent in demeanour, and with a lifelong history of
impurity and theft. M. Auguste Voisin, one of the physicians on
the staff, undertook to hypnotise her on May 31st, at a time when she
could only be kept quiet by the strait jacket and" bonnet d'irrigation,"
or perpetual cold douche to the head. She would not-indeed, she
could not-look steadily at the operator, but raved and spat at him.
M. Voisin kept his face close to hers, and followed her eyes wherever
she moved them. In about 10 minutes a stertorous sleep ensued; and
in five minutes more she passed into a sleep-waking state, and began to
taik incoherently. The process was repeated on many days, and
gradually she became sane when in the trance, though she still raved
when awake. Gradually, too, she became able to obey in waking
hours commands impressed on her in the trance-first trivial orders (to
sweep the room and so forth), then orders involving a marked change
of behaviour. Nay more; in the hypnotic state she voluntarily
expressed repentance for her past life, made a confession which
involved more evil than the police were cognisant of (though it agreed
with facts otherwise known), and finally of her own impulse made good
resolves for the future. Two years have now elapsed, and M. Voisin
writes to me (July 31st, 1886) that she is now a nurse in a Paris
hospital, and that her conduct is irreproacha.ble. In this case, and in
some recent cases of M. Voisin's, there may, of course, be matter for
controversy as to the precise nature and the prognosis, apart from
hypnotism, of the insanity which was cured. But my point is amply
made out by the fact that this poor woman, whost!l history since the
1 Annalu MbJico-P81JcJw1ogiguu, 1884, vol. ii., p. 289 ItJg. The caae was
rediacnSlled at the last meeting of the French .As8ociation for the Advancement
of Sciellca.
Digitized by Coogle
506
age of 13 had been one of reckless folly and vice, is now capable of the
steady, self-controlled work of a nurse at a hospital, the reformed
character having first manifested itself in the hypnotic state, partly in
obedience to suggestion, and partly as the natural result of the
tranquillisation of morbid passions.
M. Voisin has followed up this case with others equally striking,
into some of which a committee of the Soci~ttS Medico-Psychologique is
now inquiring.1 And M. Dufour, the medical head of another asylum,!
has adopted hypnotic suggestion as a regular element in his treatment.
"Des a present," he says, "notre opinion est faite: sans crainte de
nous tromper, nous affirmons que l'hypnotisme peut rendre service dans
Ie traitement des maladies mentales." As was to be expected, he finds
that only a small proportion of lunatics are hypnotisable i but the
effect produced on these, whether by entrancement or suggestion, is
uniformly good. His best subject is a depraved young man, who after
many convictions for crimes (including attempted murder) has become
a violent lunatic. "T.," says Dr. Dufour, "a ettS un 8.8II8Z mauvais
sujet. NOUB n'avons plus aparler au present, tellement sea sentiments
moraux ont ~ttS am~ior~ par l'hypnotisme." This change and
amelioration of character (over and above the simple recovery of
sanity) bas been a marked feature in some of Dr. Voisin's cases
as well.
There is, indeed, in the sleep-waking state even of sane persons,
a characteristic change of character, more easily recognised than
described. Without generalising too confidently, I may say that there
seems usually to be an absence of self-consciousness and anxiety, a
diminution of mere animal instincts, and a sense of expansion and
freedom which shows itself either in gaiety or in a sort of beatific
calm. In Madame B. (a subject whose susceptibility to hypnotisation
by Dr. Gibert and Prof. Janet from a distance has recently attr"Cted.
much notice) there was something-as it seemed to me--indescribably
absurd in the contrast between the peasant woman's humble, stolid,
resigned cut of countenance and the childish glee with which she
joked and babbled during the " phB86 somnambulique" of her complex
trance. On the other hand M. Richet says of a recent subject of his
own,s "She seems when in the somnambulic state to be normal
in all respects except that her character has changed. When awake
1 I have myself seen Dr. Voisin BUccetI8fully hypnotise a melancholic
patient who was in 8. state of extreme-it might have seemed of hopelese-
reatl_ness.
I Dr. E. Dufour, medeein en chef de l'a.sile Saint-Robert (Isllre). See
Annalu MMico·PaycJwlogiquea. September, 1886, p. 238, and Contril>uUon
Ii l'ttude de 1''''ypnoti8me. par Ie Dr. Dufour. (Grenoble, 1887.)
',Re1J'UfJ PIUl08op/1,ique, September, 1886, p. 327.
Digitized by Coogle
Multiplex Per8cnwJ.,ity. 507
she is gay and lively; when entranced, grave, serious, almost solemn.
Her intelligence seems to have increased."
And I may remark that this phase of the somnambulic character,
this tendency to absorption and ecstasy, is a. fa.ct of encouraging
significance. It is an indication that we may get more work out of
ourselves in certain modified states than we can at present. "Ecstacy,'
'Which in former ages was deemed the exalted prerogative of saints,
is now described as a matter of course among the phases of a mere
hysterical attack. The truth is, perhaps, more complex than either
of these views would admit. Ecstasy (we may certainly say with
the modern alienist) is for the most part at least a purely subjective
affection, corresponding to no reality outside the patient, and appearing
along with other instabilities in the course of hysteria. True; but on
the other hand ecstll.By is to hysteria somewhat as genius is to insanity.
The ecstasy, say, of Louise Latea.u assuredly proves no dogma, and
communicates to us no revelation. Yet, taken strictly by itself, it is
not altogether a retrograde or dissolutive nervous phenomenon. Rather
it represents the extreme tension of the poor girl's spirit in the highest
direction which her intellect allows; and the real drawback is that
this degree of occasional concentration usually implies great habitual
instability. The hysterical patient has an hour of ecstasy, during
which her face, if we may trust Dr. Paul Richer's drawings,loften
assumes a lofty purity of expression which the ordinary young person
might try in vain to rival. But she pays for the transitory exaltation
by days of incoherent scolding, of reckless caprice. And similarly, as
I maintain, the power of exaltation, of concentration, which constitutes
genius implies a profound modifialJility of the nervous system, a
tendency of the stream of mentation to pour with a rush into some
special channels. In a Newton or a Shelley this modifiability is
adequately under control; were. it not so, our Shelleys would lapse
into incoherence, our Newtons into monomania.
And I maintain that the hypnotic trance, with its liberation from
petty preoccupations, its concentration in favourite channels, has
some analogy to genius as well as to hysteria. I maintain that for
some uneducated subjects it has been the highest mental condition
which they have ever entered; and that, when better understood and
applied to subjects of higher type, it may dispose to flows of thought
more undisturbed and steady t.han can be maintained by the waking
effort of our tossed and fragmentary days.
I have dwelt at some length on the moral accompaniments of
the hypnotic trance, because they are as yet much less generally
known than the physical. It would, indeed, be a mere waste of
1 La Grande HylttrU, Second Edition, Pari'3, 1885.
Digi
space to dwell on the lulling of pain which can be procured by
these methods, or even on the painl811 performanoe of surgical opera-
tions during the hypnotic trance; but I will cite a C&I8 I illustrating
a point comparatively new-namely, that the insullCeptibility to pain
need not be confined to the entranced condition, but may be prolonged
by hypnotic suggestion into subsequent waking hODrl.
An hysterical patient in the hospital of Bordeaux suffered recently
from a malady which W8.1 certainly not imaginary. She had a
II phlegmon," or inSamed abscess, 8.1 big 8.1 a hen's egg, on the thigh,
with exceaaive tenderness and lan~inating pain. It W8.I necessa.ry
to open the swelling, but the screaming patient would not a.llow it
to be touched. Judging this to be a good opportunity for testing the
real validity of deferred hypnotic suggestion, Dr. Pitrea hypnotised
the woman by looking fixedly in her eyes, and then suggested to her
that aj"ttw .he Iuul bem tJWtJ~ she would allow the absceas to
be opened, and would not feel the slightest pain. She was then
awakened, and apparently resumed her normal state. M. A. Bounier
proceeded to open and squeeze out the abscess in a deliberate way.
The patient merely looked on and smiled. She had no recollection of
the suggestion which had been made to her during her trance, and she
W8.1 not a little 8.ltonished to see her formidable enemy thus disposed
of without giving her the slightest pain.
Cases like these are certainly striking enough to give a considerable
impetus to further experiment. Hypnotism, however, ha.s in England
many prejudices to contend with. I shall touch on one such prejudice
only--& very excusable one and germane to the main argument of this
paper. "These duplications of state," it is said, "are not natural;
and what is unnatural, even if it is not morbid, can never be more
than a mere curiosity." I would 8.lk of such an objector one single
question: "Which state, then, do y.ou consider, 8.1 unnatural, your
own ordinary sleep or your own ordinary waking' "
This rejoinder goes, I think, to the root of the matter; for we do
indubitably undergo every day of our lives a change of state, a shift.
ing of our internal mechanism, which is closely parallel to t&e artificial
changes whose induction I am here recommending. Our familiar sleep,
whether considered from the psychical or the physiological side, h8.1 a
curious history, strange potentialities. In its psychical 8.lpect-to
take the point which here most concerns us-it involves at lea.st the
rudiments of a "second state," of an independent memory. I should
like, bad I space, to show how the mere recurrence of a dream-scene-
a scene which ha.s no prototype in waking life-is the first stage on the
1 First given in the Journal de M~duiM th Bordeaux, and cited at length
in Dr. B~rillon'8 RWlu de I'HypnotiBme for September, 1886. Professor Pitres'
name, I may add, carrie!J great weight in the French medic,.l world
1
Digitized by l::.oog e
Multip~ Per80'1tfility. 509
way to those recurrent accesses of somnambulism, linked by continuous
memory, which have developed into the actual ordinary life of Felida
X. Leaving this point for future treatment, and passing to sleep's
phyriological aspect, we recognise in it the compromise or resultant of
many tentative duplications of state which our lowly ancestors have
known. Their earliest differentiation of condition, it may be, was
merely the change between light and darkness, or between motion and
rest. Then comes encystation, a fruitful quiescence, originally, per-
haps, a mere immobility of self-defence, but taken advantage of for
reproductive effort. And passing from protozoa to metazoa, we find
numerous adaptations of this primitive duplicability of condition.
We find sleep utilised as a protection against hunger, as a protection
against cold. And, on the other hand, we find animals for whom what
we call "true sleep" is wanting, whose circumstances do not demand
any such change or interruption in the tenor of their lifelong way.
Yet why describe this undifferentiated life-history as a state of
waking rather than of sleep 1 Why assume that sleep is the acquired,
vigilance the "normal" condition 1 It would not be hard to defend
an opposite thesis. The new-born infant might urge with cogency that
his habitual state of slumber was primary as regards the individual,
ancestral as regards the race; resembling at least, far more closely
than does our adult life, a primitive or protozoic habit. "Mme," he
might say, "is a centrally stable state. It would need only some
change in external conditions (as my permanent immersion in a nutri-
tive fluid) to be safely and indefinitely maintained. Your waking state,
on the other hand, is centrally unstable. While you talk and bustle
around me you are living on your physiological capital, and the mere
prolongation of vigilance is torture and death."
A paradox such as this forms no part of my argument; but it may
remind us that physiology at any rate hardly warrants us in speaking
of our waking state as if that alone represented our true selves, and
every deviation from it must be at best a mere interI'llption. Vigilance
in reality is but one of two co-ordinate phases of our personality, which
we have acquired or differentiated from each other during the stages of
our long evolution. And just as these two states have come to co-exist
for us in advantageous alterna.tion, so also other states may come to c0-
exist with these, in response to new needs of the still evolving
organism.
And I will now suggest two methods in which such states as those
described, say, in Dr. Voisin's or in Dr. Pitres' case, might be turned
to good account. In the world around us a.re many physical invalids
and many" moral invalids," and of both these classes a certain per-
centage are sure to prove hypnotisable, with patience and care. Let
us try to improve the moral invalid's character by hypnotic s~gestions
Digitized by l::.oogle
510 Multiplex Per807W.lity.
of self-restraint, which will continue effective after he wakes. And
let us try to enable the physical invalid to carry on his intellectual life
without the pertuI'bing accompaniment of pain. I am not bringing out
a panacea, and I expect that with the English race, and in our present
state of knowledge, but few of these experiments will succeed. But
increa.aed experience will bring the process under fuller control, will
enable us to hypnotise a larger proportion of persons and to direct the
resulting phenomena with more precision. What is needed is the per-
severance in experiment which springs from an adequate rea.lisa.tion of
the ultimate gain, from a conviction that the tortuous inlet which we
are navigating is one of the mouths of a river which runs up far int.o
the unexplored interior of our being.
I have dealt elsewhere with some further cases which go to show
the persistent efficacy of moralising suggestions-suggeations mainly
of abstinence from pernicious indulgences-when made to a subject in
the hypnotic trance.1 It must suffice here to point out that such
morahsation, whether applied to a sane or an insane subject, must by no
means be considered as a mere trick or a mere abnormality. It is but the
systematisation of a process on which religious and moral "revivals"
have always largely depended. When some powerful personage has
thrown many weaker minds into a state of unusual perturbation,
unusual plasticity, there is an element in that psychical tumult which
may be utilised for lasting good. A strong suggestion may be made,
and its effect on the brain will be such that it will work itself out,
almost automatically, perhaps for years to come. When Father Mathew
spread the temperance pledge through Ireland he showed this power at
its best. What it can be at its worst we see, for instance, in the recent
epidemic of frenzy in the Bahamas, where the hysterical symptoms were
actually the main object sought, and the dogma only served to give to
that hysteria a stimulating flavour of brimstone. Scenes not dissimilar
have been witnessed in England too; yet the sober moralist has been
forced to recognise that a germ of better life has often been
dropped, and has quickened, amid the turbulence of what to him might
seem a mere scandalous orgy.
Just so did the orthodox physician look on in disgusted contempt at
the tumultuous crUea of the patients around Mesmer's baquet. But
science has now been able to extract from that confused scene its germ
of progress, and to use a part of Mesmer's processes to calm the very
accesses which Mesmer employed them to generate. Let her attempt,
then, to extract the health·giving element from that moral turbulence
as well, and to use the potency which in ignorant hands turns men and
women into hysterical monomaniacs, to revive in the spirits which she
dominates the docility of the little child.
1 Proceeding8 of the S. P.R.• Part X. G I
izedby oog e
Multipla; P8TSO'fI.ality. 511
This last phrase represents a true, an important ana.logy. The art
of education, as we know, rests on the physiologica.l fact that the child's
brain receives impressions more readily, and retains them more lastingly,
than the adult's. And those of us who have been well drilled in child-
hood are not apt to consider that the advantage thus gained for us was
an nnfair or tricky one, nor even that virtue has been made unduly
easy to us, so that we deserve no credit for doing right. It surely need
not, then, be considered as over·reaching Destiny, or outwitting the
Moral Law, if we take persons whose early receptiveness has been
abused by bad example and try to reproduce that receptiveness by a
physiologica.l process, and to imprint hypnotic suggestions of a salutary
kind.
I ventured to make a proposal of this sort in a paper published in
1885; but, although it attracted some comment as a novelty, I cannot
flatter myself that it was taken au ,erieuz by the pedagogic world.
But as I write these lines I see from a report of the Association
Franqais pour l'Avancement des Sciences (Session de Nancy, 1886) that
the "Section de Pedagogie " has actually passed a resolution desiring
" que des experiences de suggestion hypnotique soient tentees, dans un
but de mora.lisation et d'education, sur quelques-uns des slljets les plus
notoirement mauvais et incorrigibles des ~coles primaires." I commend
the idea then, with the sense that I am not alone in my paradox, to the
attention of practical philanthropists.
My second suggestion-namely, that we may conceivably learn to
carry on our intellectual life in a state of insusceptibility to physical
pain, may appear a quite equally bold one. "We admit," the critics
might say, "that a man in the hypnotic trance is insensible to
pinching; but, since he can also notoriously, when in that state, be
made to believe that his name is Titus Oates, or that a candle-end
is a piece of plum-ca.ke, or any other absurdity, the intellectual work
which he performs in that mood of mind is not likely to be worth
much." But my point is, as may have been already gathered, that
this clean-cut, definite conception of the hypnotic state is now shown
to have been crude and rudimentary. Dr. Pitres' case, above cited
(where the patient was restored to ordinary life in all respects except
that she continued insensible to pain), is a mere sample of cases daily
becoming more numerous, where power is gained to dissociate the ele-
ments of our being in novel ways, to form from them, if I may so say,
not only the one strange new compound" hypnotic trance," but a whole
series of compounds marking the various stages between that and the
life of every day. Hysterica.l phenomena, now for the first time studied
with something like the attention which they deserve, point strongly in
this direction. And apart from hysteria., apart from hypnotism, we
find in active and healthy life scattered hints of the possible a\lqence oj.
!?,g,tized by l:.oogle
512
pain during vigorous intellectual effort. From the candidate in & com-
petitive examination who forgets his toothache till he comes out again.
to the soldier in action unconscious of the bullet-wound till he faints
from lOBS of blood, we have instances enough of an exaltation or con-
centration which has often made the resolute spirit altogether uncen-
scious of conditions which would have been absorbing to the ordinary
man. And here too, as in the case of moral suggestibility, eJ.ready
dealt with, the function of science is to regularise the accidental and to
elicit from the mingled phenomenon its permanent boon. Already men
attempt to do this by a mere chemical agency. There have been philo-
sophers who have sought in laudanum intellectual lucidity and bodily
repose. There have been soldiers who have supplemented with " Dutch
courage" the ardour of martial fire. Philosopher and soldier alike ex-
pose themselves to an unhappy reaction. But by the induction of
hypnotic a.n.thesia we are taking a shorter road to our object; we are
acting on the central nervous system without damaging stomach or liver
on the way. It was an abridgment of this kind when sub-cutaneous
injection of morphia replaced in so many cases morphia taken by the
mouth. Yet though the evil done in tranritu was subtler and slower,
evil still was done. On the other hand the direct non-chemical action
on the central nervous system, in which hypnotism consists. ia not
proved to be in any way necessarily injurious, and has thus far, when
under careful management, resulted almost uniformly in good. Such
at least is the view of all physicians, so far as I know, who have
practised it themselves on a large scale, though it is not the general
view a.t present of those men-physicians or others-who are content
to judge from hearsay and to write at second-hand.
Let us not then, I would say, be satisfied if we can merely give
some poor sufferer a good night by hypnotism, or even if we can operate
on him painlessly in a state of trance. Let us approach the topic of
the banishment of pain in a more thoroughgoing and bolder spirit.
Looking at that growing class of civilised persons who suffer from
neuralgia, indigestion, and other annoying but not dangerous forms of
malaise, let us consider whether we cannot induce-in those of them
who are fortunate enough to be readily hypnotisable-a third condition
of life, which shall be as waking but without its uneasiness and as sleep
without the blankness of its repose, a state in which the mind may go
serenely onwards and the body have no power to distract her energy or
to dispute hersway.
Is there anything in nature to render this ideal impossible 1 Let
us consider the history of pain. Pain, it may be plausibly suggesU!d,
is an advantage acquired by our ancestors in the course of their
struggle for existence. It would be useless to the fortunate animal-
cule, which, if you chop it in two, is simply two animalcules instead of
Digitized by Coogle
Multiplex PersonoJ,ity. 513
one. But as soon as the organism is complex enough to suffer partial
injury, and active enough to check or avoid such injury before it has
gone far, the pain becomes a useful warning, and the sense of pain'
is thus one of the first and most generalised of the perceptive faculties
which place living creatures in relation with the external world. And
to the human infant it is necessary still. The burnt child must have
some reason to dread the fire, or he will go on poking it with his fingers.
But, serviceable though pain may still be to the child and the savage,
civilised men and women have now a good deal more of it than they can
find any use for. Some kinds of pain, indeed (like neuralgia, which
pr6116'l&t8 the needed rest), are wholly detrimental to the organism, and
have arisen by mere correlation with other susceptibilities which are in
themselves beneficial. Now if this correlation were inevitable-if it
were impossible to have acute sense-perceptions, vivid emotional de-
velopment, without these concomitant nervous pains-we should have
to accept the annoyance without more ado. But certain spontaneously
occurring facts, and certain tlxperimental facts, have shown us that the
correlation is not inevitable; that the sense of pain can be abolished,
while other sensibilities are retained, to an extent far beyond what the
common experience of life would have led us to suppose possible.
Our machinery is hampered by a system of checks, intended to guard
against dangers which we can now meet in other ways, and often
operating as a serious hindrance to the work of our manufactory. A
workman here and there has hit on an artifice for detaching these checks,
with signal advantage, and is beginning to report to the managers his
guess at a wider application of the seemingly trivial contrivance.
Be it mentioned too that not only pain itself, but anxiety, ennui,
intellectual fatigue, may be held in abeyance by hypnotic treatment
and suggestion. There is not, indeed, much evidence of any increase
of sheer intellectual acumon in the hypnotic state, but in most kinds
of ordinary brain-work the difficulty is not so much that one's actual
power of thinking is inadequate to the problems proposed as that one
cannot use that power aright, cannot focus one's object steadily or
gaze on it long. Hypnotism may not supply one with mental lenses
of higher power, but in its artificial attention we have at least the
rudiment of a machinery like that which holds firm the astronomer's
telescope and sweeps it round with the moving heavens, as compared
with the rough and shifting adjustments of a spy-glass held in the hand.
These speculations, especially where they point to moral progress
as attainable by physiological artifice, will seem to many of my readers
venturesome and unreal. And in these days of conflicting dogmas and
impracticable Utopias, Science, better aware than either priest or
demagogue of how little man can truly know, is tempted to confine
herself to his material benefit, which can be made certain, and to let
Digitized by Coogle ..0"
514 Multiple:e Per8onality.
his moral progress-which is a speculative hope--alone. Yet, now
that Science is herself becoming the substance of so many creeds, the
lode-star of so many aspirations, it is important that she should not in
any direction even appear to be either timid or cynical. Her humble
miBBionaries at least need not show themselves too solicitous about
poBBible failure, but should rather esteem it as dereliction of duty
were some attempt not made to carry her illumination over the whole
realm and mystery of man.
Especially, indeed, is it to De desired that biology should show-
not indeed a moralising bias, but-a moral care. There has been a
natural tendency to insist with a certain diaillusionising tenacity on
the low beginnings of our race. When eminent but ill-instructed
personages in Church or State have declared themselves, with many
flourishes, "on the side of the Angel," there has been a grim satisfaction
in proving that Science at any rate is "on the side of the Ape." But
the victory of Science is won. She has dealt hard measure to man's
tradition and his self-conceit; let her now show herself ready to sym-
pathise with such of his aspirations as are still legitimate, to offer such
prospects as the nature of things will allow. Nay, let her teach the
world that the word evolution is the very formula and symbol of
hope.
Bllt here my paper must close. I will conclude it with a single
reflection which may somewhat meet the fears of those who dislike any
tamperings with our personality, who dread that this invading analysis
may steal their very self away. All living things, it is said, strive
towards their maximum of pleasure. In what hours, then, and under
what conditions, do we find that human beings have attained to their
intensest joy 7 Do not our thoughts in answer turn instinctively to
scenes and moments when all personal pre-occupation, all care for
individual interest, is lost in the sense of spiritual union, whether with
one beloved soul, or with a mighty nation, or with "the whole
world and creatures of God" 7 We think of Dante with Beatrice, of
Nelson at Trafalgar, of S. Francis on the Umbrian hill. And surely
here, as in Galahad's cry of " If I lose myself I find myself," we have
a hint that much, very much, of what we are wont to regard as an
integral part of us may drop away, and yet leave us with a con-
sciousness of our own being which is more vivid and purer than
before. This web of habits and appetencies, of lusts and fears, is not,
perhaps, the ultimate manifestation of what in truth we are. It is
the cloak which our rude forefathers have woven themselves against the
cosmic storm; but we are already learning to shift and refashion it as
our gentler weather needs, and if perchance it slip from us in the sun-
shine then something more ancient and more glorious is for a moment
gueBBed within.
Digitized by Coogle
Stages of Hypnotic Memury. 515
VIII.
STAGES OF HYPNOTIC MEMORY.
By EDMUND GURNEY.
On a former occasion (Proceedings, Vol. II., pp. 69-70) I drewatten-
tion to some remarkable peculiarities of memory which may be observed
in hypnotic" subjects." It has, of course, long been recognised as one of
the most striking characteristics of hypnotic trance, in any but its very
lightest stages, that the "subject" is oblivious, on waking, of what he
has said and done, and of all that has passed in his presence, while the
tranCtHlOndition lasted; but tha.t, when he is re-hypnotised, these
vanished memories recur to his mind. But the trance-condition had
always, in relation to memory, been treated as a Bingle state; or at
any rate as double only in the sense that in its deeper stages conscious-
ness seemed so completely to lapse that no impression at all could be
made on the"subject's" mind, and consequently no material for memory
could be stored there. Experiment showed, however, the existence
of positive and distinct stages of memory within the conscious portion
of the hypnotic trance. After being brought into a light stage of trance
-what we may call state A-the "subject" is told something, with a
direction to remember it. He is then carried into a deeper stage of
trance-state B, and is asked what it was that he had just been told;
he proves quite unable to reca.ll it, and even to recall the fact that any-
thing has been told him. He is now told something fresh, with a
direction to remember it, after which he is recalled to state A; and
now, when asked what he has been told, he does not mention and can-
not recall what he heard a few moments before in state B, but
repeats instead what had been told him in the prior state A, in
which he now again finds himself. Brought once more to state B,
he similarly remembers what he had been told in that state, while
again completely oblivious of what was impressed on him in state A.
On waking, he retains no memory of anything that has been told
him; 1 though if ordered, in the trance, to remember and mention some
particular item on waking, he will do so. I made the trials with a
considerable number of .. subjects," in different parts of England,
employing three different hypnotisers, to each of whom the results were
1 This is nearly, but not quite, invariable; with one "subject" I have
twice found the thing told him in state A to be dimly remembered on waking-
I presume because it had been told while the trance was still in ita very
lightest stage.
Digitized by Coogle
516 Stages of HYP'Mtic M6'I'IIAYrY.
&8 new and surprising &8 they were at first to myself; there seem..
reason to think, therefore, that the results are tolerably normal,l and
not due to any special idiosyncrasies of operator or "subject" ; as they
certainly were not due to any guidance, or any interference with the
free play of the" subject's" mind, in the remarks addressed to him
during the progress of the experiment. I always found the two stage-s
well marked, though in one or two cases we seemed to get upon a sort
of knife-edge, when for a short time both the impressions seemed to be
simultaneously remembered. The mode of effecting the passage from one
stage to another has usually consisted in gentle passes over the fare,
without contact; but with one operator, the same effect was produced
mainly or altogether by verbal suggestion-e.g., by the simple direction,
"Go deeper," several times reiterated. I must not digress into a
discussion of the nature of the influence which the passes exercise; but
I may just say that no experiments are better calculated to display the
wonderful delicacy of that particular mode of affection, in the case of
persons with whom it has been the rule to employ it. To the student
of hypnotism the immediate responsiveness of the subject's mind and
organism to the appropriate stimuli comes to seem as much a matter of
course as that the tones of an organ should vary iu obedience to thP.
hand which turns on or shuts off the different stops; but among all
these notable instances of stop-management on the human instrument,
none is more impressive than to find that a few noiseless movements of
one person's fingers, at a short distance from another person's face, bave
completely obliterated that with which the latter's attention two or
three seconds ago was entirely engrossed, and have brought back within
his mental horizon that which no other means in the world-no other
physical operation, not the clearest verbal reminder, not the fear of
death, nor the offer of '£1,000 reward~ould have induced or enabled
him to recall.
Though there is nothing which would have prepared us for these
memory-stages-since the passage from normal waking to deep hypnotic
sleep is apparently a perfectly gradual one-it may be observed that
~" we occasionally find some sort of analogy to them in dreams; though
as these do not admit of deliberate testing, and the test has to be got
1 I am speakiag of cases where the trance·condition is definitely estab·
lished-in the sense that the" subject," if left to himself, willlapee into a deep
state otslumber, in which he shows a high degree ofinsensibility to sound and to
pain, and from which only the Origillal operator can rapidly bring him back &0
the normal wakingstate. I should notexpectto get similar results in the very
light forms of hypnotic aifection which are so common in France; where the
physical deviation from normality is far less marked, and the .. snbject " comes
to himself, after the little course of therapeutic suggestion has been gone
through, without any special means, and often without &11y break in the
continuity of conscionsn8811.
Digitized by Coogle
Sto{Jes of Hypnotic Memury. 517
so to speak, out of the dream itself, which naturally retains some
sort of continuity of incident, the analogy is of a very broken and
imperfect sort. The following case was lately sent to me by my friend,
Mr. David Stewart, of Milton of Campsie, a careful and accurat.e
reporter.
I don't know whether a caae of "alternating memory" during ordinary
dreaming may be of the slightest interest to you. This morning, in a dream
about u ridiculous u dreama usually are, a number of circumstances led me
to amputate the tail ot a pony belonging to the farmer with whom I live, and
while I wu vainly endeavouring to fix it on again, the farmer came in. At
this point all the previous circumstances of the dream were forgotten, and I
racked my brains in a hopeless attempt to explain the state of affairs.
Memory W88 a blank, and still remains so. However, as the pony
seemed likely to die, we lifted it into a large pot that wu heating over the
kitchen fire to give it a warm bath, and I went oft" for the veterinary
surgeon. On the way I seemed partially to waken up, though still walking
on the road to town. I felt that the events at the farm had 1teen a dream,
and I turned and walked back, feeling quite relieved.
Once home, however, the whole thing returned. Here wu the pony,
still in the pot. Every idea that 1 had been dreaming wu gone. I only
knew that I had gone for the vet. and come back without him. After some
more fooling I awoke.
All thia seems very silly, but it shows the existence of four diatinctlayera,
&8 it were, of consciouanoas.
1. That of the first part of the dream, cut oft" by a sharp line of forgetful-
ness from all the rest.
2. The second and lut part of the dream, which seem to be on the same
level.
3. The middle, when I " dreamt it wu a dream." This too wu cutoft"
sharply from the lut part of No.2.
4. Waking consciousness j remembering 2, 3, and 4, but not No.1.
With the assistance of M.r. G. A. Smith (whom I will in future call
S.), I have lately made a fresh series of experiments in hypnotic memory,
in which some further points have been observed; and it may make
the matter more intt,lligible to give the details of a few cases. The
great point, of course, is to use the right means for ascertaining
whether the thing told is or is not remembered. It would never
do to begin by asking the "subject" point-blank, "Do you remember
such and such a thing 1"-as, if he were inclined to simulate, he might
say" Yes," though, in fact, he did not remember it; while, apart from
any question of simulation, the mere mention of this thing might recall
it to him, though it had lapsed beyond recall had his mind been left to
itself. A very little skill will surmount this difficulty. The first
question should be asked in some neutral form of words, which will be
understood as referring to one particular thing if that particular thing
is truly remembered, but which, if it meets with no response implying
memory, will equally serve as the introduction to some fresh ~ic. I
Digitized by ~C\P8 e
518 Stages of Hypnotic Memory.
The following are epitomised samples of the sort of convel"8&tion
which occurred.
A young man named S--t, (often mentioned in my paper on
"Peculiarities of certain Post-hypnotic States") after being hypnotised,
was told in state A that the pier-head had been washed away, and in
state B that an engine-boiler had burst at Brighton station, and killecl
several people. He was then roused to state A, when he proved to
recollect about the accident to the pier; after which a few passes
brought him again to state B.
S.l " But I suppose they'll soon be able to build a new one."
Had the pier been now present in S--t's mind, this remark
would have been naturally understood to refer to it, as it had formed
the subject of conversation a few seconds before. But he at once
replied, "Oh, there are plenty on the line"-mearung plenty of
engines.
S. "The pile-driving takes time, though."
S-T. "Pile-driving¥ Well, I don't know anything about
engines myself."
A few upward passes were now made, and it at once becomes clear
that the memory has shifted.
S. " If they have plenty more, it doesn't matter much."
S-T. " Oh, they can't put it on in a day; it was a splendid
place."
S. "Why, I'm talking about the engine."
B-T. " Engine! What, on the pier' I never noticed one there_"
Again, the same "subject" was told in state A that a ba.lloon had
been seen passing over the King's-road. Some passes were made
which carried him into state B, when S. said, "But I didn't see it
myself."
S--T. " What was tha.t1"
He was now told that two large dogs had been having a fight in
the Western-road; and a few upward passes roused him to state A.
S. UBut it was a good long time in sight."
S-T. " The balloon 1"
S. " No, the dog--"
S--T. " Dog! Why, was there one on it' A dog on a
balloon !"
The "subject" is brought down again to state B.
1 The topics were in every case selected, the changes of state directed, and
the substance and tene of Mr. Smith's remarks suggested, by me; tho actual
form of words being sometimes left to him, in order that the conversation might
flow easily. I am much indebted to him for the ready and complete way in
which he throughout met my wishes.
Digitized by Coogle
Stages of Hyprwtic Memo'I'1J.
S. " But it didn't remain in sight long; it soon went up."
S-T. " What didn't' What went up t"
S. " Weren't we talking about b&lloons , "
519
B-T. "No; but one of them dogs looked like a busted b&lloon
when he was down."
A few upward passes, and S. says, "Which one 7"
S-T. " Why, there was only one."
S. " One what 1"
S-T. " Balloon."
S. " I was talking about dogs."
B-T. " I don't know nothing of dogs."
Three days afterwards, S--t was again hypnotised, and S. said,
.. What was that you said about the pier t"
S--T. "Oh, about the head being washed away."
This, it will be seen, was the memory appropriate to state A. Some
downward p&BBe8 were made, and S. said, "A good thing that things
don't often happen like that."
S-T. " No, they don't at Brighton; they do on the Northern
lines."
Here we have the engine accident again-the memory appropriate
to state B. The balloon over the King's-road was now strongly
suggested by S.; but that idea belonging to state A, it could not be
recalled in state B. S. then said: "Oh, no ; of course it was' in the
WeI!tern-road."
S--T. "Yes, something happened there."
S. " What was it 1"
S--T. "A dog-fight; between two large dogs. They had a good
old tussle."
Here is an instance with W--s, also often mentioned in my
earlier paper.
He was told in state A thatthe statue ofSir Cordy Burrows had been
dug up and carried off from the Pavilion Gardens, and in state B that
a pipe had burst in North-sl;reet, and had caused a waterspout
and a commotion. After bringing him back to state A, S. said, " Yes,
I heard that people got very muddy over that job."
W-s. "What jobf"
8. " What I told you about."
W--8. "Ah, they would get muddy over taking offthat statue."
S. "I was talking about the pipe bursting." But no suggestion or
description was able to bring back this occurrence-which belonged to
the B cl&Bs--to his mind.
The next day the &&me "subject" was hypnotised, and was immedi-
ately asked what had happened in the Pavilion Gardens.
W-so "Sir Cordy Burrows t when they r&D away ~ it t "I
Digitized by P~98 e
520 Stages of Hypootic Memory.
S. " Ran into North-atreet, didn't they t "
W-II. "No."
S. "There was something about a pipe in North-atreet."
W- 8 . .. Oh, I haven't heard anything about North-atreet."
He was carried in a few seconds into the further stage, when S.
said, "Where was it carried off to t"
W-II. "They couldn't ('arry it, could they' But it carried
itself pretty high. Carry a waterspout!"
S. "What about that statue'" But nothing would revive this A
idea in the B state.
On March 23rd, S-t was hypnotised, and told that the spire of
St. Paul's Church, in West-street, had fallen, and hurt some people.
Some passes were made, and S. said: "" Did you hear whether many
people were hurt t"
S-T. "When'"
S. .. In that accident."
He had no idea what was meant, and S. now told him that the
accident had been at the Grand Hotel-that the lift had gone up with
a run, and been smashed against the top. He was then brought back
to.tate A.
S. "Yes, that's an unusual sort of accident."
S-T. "Yes, they don't generally faIl like that, unless struck by
lightning."
S. .. FaIl I Why, it went up."
S--T. .. Went up t"
S. .. Yes, at the hotel."
B--T. " It didn't fall on a hotel, did it , "
On March 27th, being asked, in state B, what it was that had
happened in West-street, he replied, "The top of the church fell off."
S. "Waan't there something that went up 1"
S-T. .. I don't think so."
S. "Went up with a run 1"
S-T. "No; they were frightened the other aide of the road,
perhaps."
S. now brought him down to state B, and continued, "Oh,:they
were frightened, were they'"
S-T. "Yes, those that IlR.W it were."
S. "Saw what f"
B-T. " Saw it go up."
S. " What go up t "
B-T. "That lift go up."
S. " I thought you meant that spire."
S-T. "What, is there a spire on the top '"
S. " Top of what' "
Digitized by Coogle
Bta{}es of Hypnotic MMM'1"!J. 521
S-T. " Of the hotel." And so on.
It is equally easy to start with state B. Thus, on April 7, the
eleventh day from the last experiment, S--t was carried down into
the deep speechless condition, and then recalled by one or two calls to
the stage where he was capable of answering. The above conversation
was then continued.
S. " Do you remember that accident that there was at Brighton'"
S-T. "What, at the Grand Hotel, when that lift went up 1"
S. "Ah, we were talking of several ACcidents; wasn't there another
in-in West-street1"
S-T. "No. The hotel is at the bottom of West-street." (It is
very near to the junction of West-street with the King's-road.)
He is now roused, and S. continues, "Oh, just at the bottom of
West-street, is it1"
B-T. "Not quite; nearly."
S. "What is 1"
S-T. " The church."
S. " What church1"
B-T. "That one the steeple fell off; you were telling me about
it. It fell on the roof of an hotel "---clearly the echo of his concluding
remark on March 23rd.
Here is an instance of an entirely fresh experiment commencing
with a suggestion in state B. W- 8 , having just been roused from
the condition when he was incapable of answering, was told that
there was a fine new specimen of a whale at the Aquarium.
W----fl. " Oh! Where did they get that from 1"
S. "It was found floundering on the coast."
The "subject" having been roused to the lighter state, S. went on,
"So they'll have it in a tank."
W-8. " What1"
S. " Wasn't I telling you about something 1 What was I telling
you about1"
W--B. "You told me 8omething." He appears to consider.
S. " What sort of fish did I mention 1"
W--s. "Fish! I don't know." He cannot recall this idea.
S. "Well, I was going to tell you about Miss Webb's display at
the pier. They're going to have that at the Aquarium, in a tank."
State B is now reproduced, and S. proceeds: "But I suppose she's
used to the water."
W-s. "They generally are; you don't often see them out of it,
unless they're dead."
S. "I said it was at the pier."
W-so "You said floundering on the coast."
S. "No, I said something about Miss Webb."
Digitized by Coogle
522 Btoges 0/ H1J1Y1Wtu: Memmy.
W---a. "Webb I Whale ain't Webb."
It would be tellioo to multiply these normal instances. But there
were lOme of a more unusual kind. As I have said, the rule is to
obtain Cwo .tate. or st&ge8. If the attempt is made to carry the
trance-oondition beyond state B, the eft'ect is either to bring the
"subject" into an apparently deep Bleep, in which he is incapable of
answering, and probably of hearing; or to create .uch a desire for
sleep, and aversion to hP.ing queatiooed, that he becomea more or less
intractable. With one" subject" I have found that even the second
stage, on one or two occaaiona, could not be obtained. In this deepen-
ing proceaa .leep and apparent unconsciousness supervened before any
dividing line hadbeen established; 10 that, up to the last moment when he
could answer queationa, the nlemory of the things told him immediately
after his entrancement remained. But there are other caaea which are
exceptional in just the opposite direction-eaaea where the course of
the trance allows a distinct third stage of memory to manifest itself
before unconsciousness seta in. The following instance will make this
clear.
In .tate A, S-t was hypnotised; and the fact of his being in
atate A waa ascertained by his remembering the balloon over the
King's-road, and forgetting the dog fight and the engine-accident--
the ideas of state B. He was now told that a foreign flag had been
seen floating over the Pavilion, and was then carried on into state B,
when S. said, "People may well complain."
S-T. "Yea."
S. "Why 1"
S--T. "Why, the nuiaance-thoae dogs fighting in the Western-
road." (The idea proper to state B is revived.)
S. "No, I meant about the flag."
S-T. "What flag t There are plenty of flags about." (The
idea proper to state A is forgotten.)
S. " No, I meant that cart running away in Montpelier-road "-a
new idea, which will belong henceforth to the B claas.
S--T. "What cart 1" Then, scornfully, "Cart running away!
It's the horae that runs away."
He was then informed more particularly that a horse with a cart
had bolted in Montpelier-road; and the deepening passes were
continued.
S. " So they found it bottom upwards."
There was no answer; the "subject" had lapsed into sleep. He
was called by name, and a few reverse passes were made-when he
woke with an "Eh , "
S. "They found it bottom upwards."
B-T. " What' When t"
Digitized by Coogle
Stages of Hypnotic Merll.ory. 523
S. "A boat, I mean." He was then told that a very high tide
had washed away a boat on the beach; but that after a time it had
drifted ashore. This idea was suggested in what proved to be a
separate and third stage, C, when he was on the very verge of lapsing
into unconsciousness; and he did lapse immediately afterwards. He
was roused, and S. said, "That's the effect of not tying it securely."
S-t's answers now showed that the rousing had carried him over
stage C, and that he was once more in stage B. He said, "Tied t
They never tie them."
S. "No wonder it was washed away then."
B--T. "Washed away! Did it go over the clift'1"
S. "No; what do you mean 1"
B--T. " That horse and cart you were talking about."
Here, then, was the stage B idea, the boat of stage C being
forgotten. It remained to ascertain that what I have called stage C
was not identical with stage A-that there had been a real progression
beyond stage B, and not a mere oscillation between the A a.nd B states.
Accordingly, some reverse passes were made, with the view of bringing
the subject into the A state; and S. said, "I dare say it will get
knocked about on the beach."
S-T. " What knocked about t"
S. "What I was telling you about."
S--T. "Why, have they taken it on the beach now, then 1"
S. " It was on the beach."
B--T. "Why, you said it was on the Pavilion."
S. " What do you mean 1"
B--T. "That large flag."
Here then was the stage A idea, and the memory of the boat of
stage C proved as unrevivable as it had been in stage B. S--t was
now carried down without pause into the state of deep sleep-the most
certain way of lighting on stage C being to go beyond it in this way,
and then to revive the" subject" just enough to enable him to under-
stand and answer. He was called by name several times, and a few
reverse passes were made, before he answered, " Eh 1 what t " S.
replied in words which would apply equally to carts or boats; but, as I
expected, they were understood as applying to boats-the stage C idea.
S. " Is it customary to tie them 1"
S--T. "Yes."
S. " I thought you said it wasn't," (He had said before that it
was not customary to tie carts.)
B--T. " Oh, yes; sometimes they tie them to capstans, sometimes
to larger vessels."
He was now questioned about the cart, but had no remembrance of
it; also about the dog-fight (which, the reader will recall, was another
Digitized by Coogle
5241 Btagea of Hypnotic Memory.
atage B idea), with the same result. Some upward pasaea were noW'
made, and S. laid, "Did you say they tie them to a capatan t n
S-T. u No; they throw the reins loose over the horae's back.."
S. " A lot of people saw it coming down."
S-T. " What, the horae and cart t n
Here is evidently the reappearance of stage B; and proceeding
again on the upward or lightening course, we found the A idea, the ftag
on the Pavilion, duly remembered. This WIUI on February 28th. On
March 2nd, the lame process was briefly repeated. Thus after the
" subject" had proved his recollection of the flag, he was carried
straight on into the furthest state, and S. laid, "Have you heard of
something running away t"
S-T. "No; not ""ming away; it lwo~ away on the beach;
but it washed in again." (Here is stage C, stage B having been
crossed without any questions.) The" subject" was roused a littlf',
and S. said, "Yes; it very nearly got lost."
~T. " What1 I don't think BO."
S. "If it hadn't been washed ashore, it would have been lost."
S-T. " It didn't go over the rails into the sea, did it 1"
S. "What didn't1"
S-T. "That horae and cart." (Re-ascent into stage B.)
He was now completely roused, re-hypnotised, given a new A
impression-viz., that the statue had been taken from the Pavilion
GardenB--and then a feW' passes were made.
S. "So people ran in all directions."
S--T. "When, where 1 Anything serious t"
S. "That statue, you know."
B-T. " Statue! , Was it in the way then'"
S. " In the way' When' "
B-T. "When that horae and cart ran away." (Re-descent into
state B.)
He is now given a new B impression-viz., that the pipe had burst
in North-street-and is then carried right on into deep sleep, and
slightly roused.
S. " Yes, that's a novel idea, isn't it , ..
S--T. "What1"
S. "Why, turning that-"
S-T. "What, the water turning that boat ashore'" (Re-
descent into stage C.) And so on.
I will give one more instance of these memory alternations, which
includes the third state. Immediately after the last appearance of the
boat, which belonged, it will be remembered, to stage C, S-t was
told that Brill's Baths were going to be transformed into a circus-
Digitized by Coogle
Btagea of HYFMtic Memory. 525
which, he opined, wonld never pay. This was the final impression of
March 2nd. On March 3rd, we began with stage A.
S. " What were yon telling me about the Pavilion Gardens'"
S--T. " You were telling me-about the statue of Sir Cordy
Burrows being taken away." (A.)
He is now told that a new Grand Hotel was to be built on the
East Cliff. He expresses surprise, and says that" it is a funny place to
choose." He is now carried deeper.
S. "Yes, it is a funny place."
S--T. "Why, they b11l"8t anywhere."
S. " What do you mean' "
S--T. .. Why, you told me a water-pipe had burst in North-
street." (B.)
S. "I was talking of the hotel."
S-T. "What, did it burst beside the UnicCYl"n '" (This is a
hotel in North-street.)
He is now told that there was to be a new Electric Railway
along the West Cliff.
S-T. " Have they got the sanction of the Council'"
S. "Have you hep,rd of anything to be done on the East
Cliff1"
S--T. "Nothing that I know of. Only that lift for the rail-
way." (This was a real project in connection with the East Cliff
electric car.)
S. " That improvement will make up for the catastrophe at the
Pavilion."
. S--T. " What was that' "
S. "The statue."
S--T. " Statue! " This A idea cannot be recalled in state B.
He is carried deeper.
S. "So they are going to do it after all."
S-T. " Are they 1 A very good thing if it pays."
S. " What pays 1"
S-T. "Why, that Circus at Brill's Baths." (C.)
He is now told that a new spire is to be put on St. Paul's Church,
in West-street; and then we begin the reverse journey.
After a few upward passes, S. says, "Yes, St. Paul's wants one
like that."
S-T. "Like what'"
S. " The spire for St. Paul's."
S--T. " I've never seen St. Paul's; it looks very nice in photo-
graphs." (He referred the remark to St. Paul's in London.)
S. "What is that they are going to do on the West Cliff, or at
Brill's Baths '"
Digitized by Coogle
526 StagtIJ oj Hypnotic Memury.
S-T. "There's that new Electric Railway." (B.) The idea of
the circus (C) could not be revived.
8. " That will be an improvement, like that hotel."
8-T. "Why, there's no hotel been improved."
S. " Not on the East CliftT'
S-T. " What, are they going to build a new one 1"
A few more upward passes, and S. reaumes, "They have been
painting it."
S-T. "You said they were going to build a new one."
S. "A new what!"
B-T. "Hotel on the East Cliff." (A.)
He is woke, and then immediately re-hypnotised. For the first few
moments he only remembers "something about some hote}," and does
not recall on which cliff it was to be. But a few more passes
bring back state A completely.
S. "Was there to be something on the West Clifft "
S-T. "You said the hotel was to be on the East Cliff." (A.)
He is carried further, and S. says, "On the East Clift; is it to be,"
S-T. "Why, they've got one there I"
S. "One what 1"
S--T. "An electric railway,"-which is true. From his exclaiming
"Why they've got one there," it may be inferred that the hotel (A) was
now forgotten, and that the idea of the new Electric Railway (B)
which he had been told was to be on the We,' Cliff, had reappeared.
The state is now deepened, and S. says, "Oh, they have got
one 1"
S--T. "No, not yet."
S. "What!"
S--T. "Why, a new spire to St. Paul's." (C.)
Brought back to state A, he remembers the hotel on the East Cliff,
but when the new spire is suggested, he remarks, "What, to that
church at Kemp-town 1"
These samples are fair types of the dialogues that passed, and will
sufficiently show, I think, that the results were fairly observed, and not
forced or fished for in the course of the interrogatories. But it may be
objected that I am taking the honesty of the " subjects" too much for
granted, and that they may have acted their parts. Now, I should
certainly not base a conclusion as to the genuineness of the experiments
on the fact--which my experie-nce of these "subjects" put quite beyond
doubt--that they were in a true hypnotic state. I am very far indeed
from holding that because a person is hypnotised he is incapable of
deceit; indeed, I think it by no means improbable that even honest
persons may be guilty of what looks like chicanery during that
temporary dislocation of the mental machinery which the turning of the
Digitized by Coogle
StageIJ of Hypnotic Me'1rW'1"Y. 527
hypnotic screw involves} But, putting morbid and exceptional cases
aside, I would unhesitatingly assert that, with patience and observa-
tion, one may learn to know one's "subject" in the abnormal
state, even as one may learn to know him in the normal state. He is a
new person, with decided eccentricities, and he might fail to recognise
himself; but, for all that, he has a quite recognisable character, the
manifestations of whi~h, in the narrow range of circumstances with
which he is brought into contact, are specially constant and easy to
predict. Thus one comes to trust, or, it may be, to distrust him, just
as one might any other acquaintance. Now the tone, demeanour, and
style of conversation of the "subjects" on whom these observations were
made have always been perfectly open, candid, and consistent; there
has never boon the slightest sign of trickiness or evasion. I really
owe this expression of confidence to their hypnotic character, as I am
almost ashamed to feel how exclusively the high level of untr\lthfulness
which the above dialogues undoubtedly maintained was due to my own
share in them. Not, of course, that I should expect to impart my
gradually-acquired confidence to others, who have to accept the grounds
for it at second hand; but such considerations may fairly be used
to reinforce more definite arguments. These are at least three
in number. (1) The young men whom I employed had no means of dis-
covering what results would be to my liking. Though it was, of course,
impossible for Mr. Smith and me, after the stages had once manifested
themselves, not to expect the results to turn out in the main as they
did, we were careful to give the " subjects" no opportunity of knowing
what these expectations were. The matter was never discussed in their
presence, either when they were entranced or when they were awake-
except that on wlJoking they were offered a sovereign if they could
repeat anything that had been told them in the trance; and no
expressions of satisfaction or dissatisfadion, or comments of any sort,
accompanied the experiments. I may mention, too, that in five distinct
instances, through my forgetfulness, this or that " subject" was
interrogated, when in a partiCUlar state, on topics which had been
previously mentioned to one of the others when in that state, but not to
him. On these occasions his mind appeared to be a complete blank as to
what was referred to. I imagined, therefore, that there was some failure
1 This seems to be the esse also in other abnormal manifestations, as iittle
connected as hypnotism need be with bodily, mental, or moral disease. Some
of my readers will recall the Newnham experiments (PkantaBma oftM Living,
Vol. I., pp. 63·9), where some (\f the answers, written with a planchette,
show~ a trickiness quite alien to the real charact.er of the person who held it ;
and In the same class we may reckon the baseleBB predictions and ludicroUll
claims with which this little instrument so often deceives those who have been
uncoDBCioualy directing it.
Digitized by Coogle
528 St01Je8 of Hypnotic Memory.
or irregularity in these results-until an examination of my fonner notes
showed me what the explanation was. (2) Even supposing tha.t one
" subject" might have hit, by luck or cunning, on the hypothesis of
memory-stages, and might have divined that this was what I had in my
mind, and BO tried to act it out, what are the chances that several
should have independently done BO' It must be remembered that the
experiments were as new to each of them in turn as at first they were
to me; and with each of them the results were as clearand unmistakea.ble
on the first day as ever afterwards. (3) Even if luck or cunning had
led them all to the discovery, it is surely most improbable that they
should all have had BO unbroken a run of success, in a complicated task
requiring, one would think, much natural aptitude, and certainly much
quick observation and presence of mind. Though there are special
ways in which hypnotic differs from normal intelligence, the difference
has never been observed to lie in a superiority of nimble practical wit.
An untrained lad, when hypnotised, might surpass his normal self at
learning a lesson by rote, but not at a game like whist.
Of the fresh points of interest which this series of experiments
exhibited, the first relates to the effect which persistent bothering
apparently had on the memory-conditions. The effect was in some
cases to obliterate the older impressions, but never to ConfU86 them.
ImpreBBions made in state A did not reappear in state B, nor 'Dice t:enJ4;
but impressions made on BOme previous day, in one state, might fail to
reappear when that state reappeared, if a newer impression connected
with the state had taken too strong a hold on the mind. Thus, atthe be-
ginning of the experiments on 1;i'ebruary 28th,S-t remembered,in state
A and state B respectively, the impressions which had been connected
with those states on February 26th; but after the various ups and
downs of the journey to stage C and back again, and the giddy merry-
go-round of flags, carts, and boats, he was unable to recall the balloon,
in state A, and the dog-fight, in state B; though (as we have seen)
remaining perfectly clear as to the new impreBBions now associated with
these two states respectively. And on March 2nd, though the ideas of
February 28th were each remembered in the appropriate state, no
amount of suggestion could bring to remembrance the impressions of an
older date. Exactly the same thing occurred on March 3rd. The
impressions of March 2nd were remembered, each in the proper stage,
at the beginning of the sitting, but could not be revived at its close,
after a course of questions connected with a fresh series of impressions.
A second observation was that what I have called the" knife-edge,"
the middle line where the ideas of both stages were now and then
for a moment present together, can apparently be broadened out with
habit; the sharp angle becomes a gentle curve, and the stages at either
end which remain completely out of sight of one another shrink
Digitized by Coogle
Stages of Hypnotic Mem,ory. 529
proportionately in extent. Thus with W -s, whose mind has been
carried over the ground again and again, one has now to be careful
to impress the second or " state B " idea when he is closely approaching
the deep speechless condition which marks the limit of the experiment.
Another fact which clearly came out was that people have good and
bad hypnotic memories, just as they have good and bad ordinary
memories. Afrer an interval of less than three weeks, all the ideas th3t
had been impressed on S-t proved to be forgotten and unrevivable,
with one doubtful exception; and in perfect harmony with this, I
found that it was impossible to get this" subject " to execute an
order alongue ecMance. He was told in the trance on March 3rd that
he was to do a particular thing on March 28th; but the order had
completely faded from his remembrance on March 23rd.
But a more important point was this-that even where the
memories remain clear, the distinct separation of states may
be temporary only. The case in which this was first shown
greatly surprised me, as it was the first irregularity that had
presented itself in many scores of trials. On March 2nd,W-s, while
undoubtedly in state B, recalled the story of the balloon, which
belonged to state A; and a few minutes afterwards, while in state A,
he remembered the engine-accident which belonged to state B. Now
both the ideas which seemed thus to be remembered out of their proper
states had been impressed on him a week previously. In the interval
a good many conversations of the type above exemplified had been
held; and my first notion was that by ourselves repeatedly suggesting,
in one state or the other, the idea not proper to that state-in order to
show that in the wrong state no amount of suggestion would quicken
the paralysed memory-we had by degrees created an independent
impression of the A thing in the B state, (or vice versd,) or had at any
rate given the "subject" the material from which he could himself
piece out some knowledge of it. The answers, however, had been given
with a readiness and completeness which made this supposition seem
decidedly strained; and subsequent trials showed clearly, I think, that
it was unnecessary, and that there had really been no irregularity. The
obliteration of the distinction in these cases was simply due to the
week's lapse of time; 1 and after a longer period of 19 days, during the
greater part of which no experiments were made, I found that the old
1 The period may probably vary greatly nnder different circumstances; and
I have not yet Leen able to ascertain whether the fusion itself is the rule
or the exception. With S--t, we have seen that the separation of memories
remained quite distinct on the 11th day, while in less tnan double that time
there remamed no memories to be separated. With 'V--II,on the other hand,
who ha.s been much more exercised, it happened in one ca.se that impreBl!ions
given on March 22nd and revivable only lD the mutually exclusive stages on
March 23rd, were fused on March 24th.
Digi
•
530 Stages of Hypnotic Memmy.
ideas, of whichever state, could all be equally and indiscriminately
recalled in either state A or stAte B; though in respect of more recent
impressions these states proved as distinct and as mutually exclusive in
their memories as ever. This was a great relief to my mind, not only
as doing away with the uncertainty which the occurrence of exceptions
in a uniform series of results must necessarily involve, but for a wider
reason.
Probably all who have considered the phenomena of "double
consciousness;" or any cases where a single life has included parts of
which one knows nothing of another, have asked themselves how far the
individual really remained the same. Mr. Myers has recently pointed
out, as I think with perfect justice, how much less of a single and com-
plete thing personality is than we are apt to assume, how much the
very idea of pers(mality depends on the sense of continuity of
memory, and how this f"ct involves apparent disruption and subor-
dinate multiplications of personality, whenever by any means the
chain of memory is abruptly snapped. But howe\rer much we may
recognise as a fact that the I of Way or of this year may fail
to show I\ny connection-save in the habitation of the same bodily
tenement-with the I of yesterday or of ten years ago, we most of us
cling, I imagine, to the notion that there is some sense in which it is still
true that the two rswhich inhabit the same bodily tenement hAVe, after
all, a sort of identity, and that their relation is fundamentally different
from that between persons inhabiting different bodily tenements.
And we should certainly feel it to be a justification of this notion, if
there came a time when the inhabitant of the one tenement could look
back, and remember simultaneously both the dissociated states-if he
could in this way relate his present consciousness to each of them.
Just as we should recognise a certain unity of personality in the fact
that each of the Is, though separated in all else, retained some past
memory in common, so should we recognise a unity in the fact that,
though the two had had no common element, the memories of them
co-existed in a single consciousness. That is to say, the point of union
may be above the point of separation as well as below it. Now,
whether or not such a final fusion in memory will ever be manifested
in those major instances of broken identity which present the personal
problem in an urgent form, I cannot guess; if not, then I confess that
I see no manner in whi.h our faith in the continued identity of the
persons concerned, or, ultimately, in our own, can be sustained. For is
not their case ours 71 Does the boy or the man know aught of the
life of the infant, who yet, we say, was he t Is not the physical change
of death, which we must all undergo, a profounder one than any which
J See Mr. Myers' reDJarks above, p. 251-. I
Digitized by ~008 e
Stages 0/ Hypnotic Memory. 531
the brains of Louis V. or his like have undergone 7 The problem of
continuance is the same for all; and though, in our total ignorance of
the nature of the bond between mind and organism, it may be rash to
found on present experiences presumptions as to untried modes of
psychical life, I still think it is something if here and now, on
a smaJI scale, a union of divided states in a higher memory
ca.n be shown to take place. I say on a small scale; for with the
hypnotic "subject" there is, of course, no question of an actual
breach of personality, since the backward bonds remain unbroken:
in each of his states of mutually exclusive memory his normal waking
life is distinctly realised and remembered. At the same time, the
experiments show that a separation of impressions which appears as
distinct and complete as if they belonged to different individuals may
in time, and by a spontaneous process, be dissolved away, and the two
pieces of experience may merge into the general store over which the
mind bas unrestricted control. It would be easy to increase the gravity
of the experiences were it worth while to afflict the " subject's" mind;
he might be told of tragic events immediately concerning himself; he
might even be incited to crimes and violence with real consequences of
a most serious kind. But after all, the scale of the results is of little
importance. It is one of the advantages of hypnotism that it con-
denses into a few minutes processes which it might take years of
normal life to parallel; and when we remember that the ideas suggested
were strongly impressed on the "subject's" mind, that they often
surprised him and usually elicited a string of comments, and that in
the other state the memory of them could not be evoked by the most
explicit and persevering reminders, the breach and oblivion seem to be
as utter as any which mere course of time could bring about. Yet no
less utterly do they disappear in the natural development of the very
condition out of which they arose. I do not wish to press the analogy
of these hypnotic phenomena unduly; but if the superiority of man to
the brutes depends on personality, and if personality depends essentially
on memory, then those who desire that man's digni+,y should be main-
tained, and that personality should be continuous, can hardly afford to
despise the smallest fact of memory which exhibits the possibilities of
union and comprehension as triumphing over those of disruption and
dispersion.
Digitized by Coogle
532 Oases of Hypnotic Hype'1'038tltesia.
IX.
NOTE ON CERTAIN REPORTED CASES OF HYPNOTIC
HYPERlESTHESIA.
In an interesting paper which appears in the Revue Philosophique
for November last, M. Bergson of Clermont-Ferrand giVI'S an account
of a case of supposed thought-transference or clairvoyance which turns
out to be much more probably explicable by hypnotic hyperacuity of
vision. The case, I think, should be noted here, for to those who ha\'e
satisfied themselves that transmission of thought does sometimes occur it
is specially important to sift away all the spurious cases which, while
apparently supporting, must in tile end discredit the novel theory.
Briefly, then, MM. Bergson and Robinet found that a boy, who was
supposed to be a clairvoyant, or a telepathic percipient, could read
figures and words under the following conditions. One of the observers
hypnotised the boy, stood with his back nearly against the light, opened
a book at random, held it nearly vertically facing himself, at about four
inches from his own eyes, but below him, and looked sometimes at the
page and sometimes into the boy's eyes. The book had often to be
slightly shifted; but ultimately the boy could generally read the number
of the page. Asked where he saw it, he pointed to the back of the
book, just opposite the number's true position. Asked where the bind-
ing of the book was, he put his hand underneath the book, and indicated
the place where the binding would have been, had the book faced him.
It occurred to M. Bergson-and he deserves full credit for being the
first to insist on tliis precaution-that, small though the figures were,
tile boy might really be reading them as reflected on the cornea of the
hypnotiser. Experiments with slightly altered position showed that in
fact the boy could not read the letters unless adjustment and illumination
were carefully made as favourable as possible. The letters were 3mm.
in height,-nothing is said of their thickness,-and their corneal image
would be about O·Imm. in height, as M. Bergson computes, under the
conditions employed. This seems a very small image to see distinctly;
but Mr. J. N. Langley and Mr. H. E. Wingfield, who have kindly tried
some careful experiments to test this point, inform me that they can
read on each other's cornele the corneal im(l.ge of printed letters of about
IOmm. in height. We know from Binet and Fer~'s experiments, &0.,
how greatly the hypnotic state does sometimes increase acuity of vision;
and we may, I think, conclude that the boy probably did read the letters
on his hypnotiser's cornea.
Digitized by Coogle
Oases of Hypnotic Hyperresthesia. 533
What, then, are we to make of the boy's statement that he saw the
words as though in a book facing him 1 M. Bergson,feels sure that this
was the boy's real belief. There was no suspicion of charlatanism, and
in fact the boy disliked the experiments, and now, as M. Bergson writes
to me, refuses to renew them. M. Bergson supposes,and I think justly,
that this was a case of simulation inconscieme; the hypnotised subject
genuinely referring his sensations to the source to which his fir,t
hypnotiser (a believer in thought-transference) had suggested to him
that they were due.
And, in fact, this unconscious simulation which leads the subject to
refer his unusual sensations to the special cause which his hypnotiser,
or Some caprice of his own mind, suggests, is a not uncommon and a
very interesting phenomenon. It was observed, for instance, by
Elliotson, who pointed out a good many hypnotic peculiarities
which his successors are now gradually rediscovering. It is a
hypnotic ezaggeration of a familiar phenomenon, namely, of the
large infusion of erroneous inference which we most of us import
into the account which we render to ourselves of our ordinary
sensations.
A particularly curious case is briefly described in the Journal oj
the Societylor P'1lchical ReBeM'ch, June, 1884. A man was brought to
us who, when hypnotised, could often name cards held in front of him,
although his eyes had been plastered up and bandaged in a most
elaborate way. The man's friends took this for clairvoyance, and the
man assented, being sure that he could not see the cards in the usual
way. They" flashed upon him," as he said. Now, after a good deal
of puzzling over the case, Mr. R. Hodgson found that he also could
sometimes manage to see over similar bandages, through small chinks
between the skin and the paper gummed over the eyes. But he, too,
found that he saw fitfully, the power of vision seeming to come and
go,-and he actually could not tell with which eye he was seeing,
except by covering each eye in turn with his hand. The distorted
position of the eyeball, and the minute and oddly-placed channels of
vision, produced 80 much confusion that there seemed no reason to
suppose that the hypnotised subject's belief that he was seeing "clair-
voyantly" was other than genuine.
The case of M. Bergson's boy seems to have been a similar one.
And his idea that he was reading from the book seems to have been a
sort of compromise between the feeling that he was reading ,omewher6
and the hypnotiser's suggestion that the words were being transferred
supemormally from mind to mind.
Thus far, then, M. Bergson's narration and explanation seem
credible enough, and his argument as against thought-transference in
this boy's case seems well made out. But he proceeded ~furthtp"
Digitized by ~qp81e
53~ Casu 0/ HY'fYMtic H'!JP6'1'CB8theaia.
experiments which, as recounted, seem incredible, and which may lead
lOme readers to distrust the accuracy of the whole series.
To explain the difficulty, I must first point out that the word
hypenesthesia is loosely used for three different classes of phenomena.
It is used (1) for an exaggeration of the familiar action of specialised
organs, as when the eye is sensible to very small amounts of light. It
is used (2) for alleged perceptions, which would imply a specialisation
of what I may term our und,ijferentiated fund of nervou.9 sensibility in
novel directions. Sensibility to the action of magnets, of metals in
contact, of medicaments at a distance, mayor may not exist, but
should scarcely be called by the same name as (say) the eye's extra
sensitiveness to light. And again, the word is used (3) for cases where
our non-specialised organs are credited with performing functions
which, 80 far as we can see, demand a. definite sense-specialisation, or
our specialised organs are credited with functions which, on measurable
anatomical grounds, a.ppear to overpass the limits of their specialisation.
This last class of cases must be received with extreme caution.
Well, M. Bergson says that he showed the boy a microscopic.
photograph of 12 men, its longest diameter 2mm., and that the boy
saw and imitated the attitude of each man. Also that he showed the
boy a microscopic preparation, involving cells not greater than ·06mm.
in diameter, and that the boy saw and drew these cells.
Now I might, in the first place, object that thought-transference
was not formally excluded, since M. Bergson himself knew the
photograph and the look of the cells. I do not press this, for the other
experiments seem to me to negative thought-transference in this case.
I merely point out that if we wish to prove that a subject does not
receive an image from our minds we should present to him an object
with which we are ourselves unacquainted.
But the real difficulty is as regards the minimum msibile. It is
usually (though not universally) supposed that in order to produce a
definite image more than one retinal rod or cone must be stimulated; and
that consequently no objectcan be separately discernible which does not
subtend (say) an angle of 60 seconds, or whose retinal image is less
than (say) ·004mm. in diameter. Floating particles, none of them
exceeding ·0029mm. in diameter, have, I believe, been seen as a cloud
in a ray of electric light sent through a tube of filtered air, but have
never been seen s6p(J/f'(J,f,6l'!J by the naked eye.
Now, the retinal image of an object itself only ·06mm. in diameter,
and placed within the range of distinct vision, will be much less than
·004mm. in diameter. To bring it up to this minimum the retinal
image must be n of the size of the object itself; and this implies a
nearness to the eye involving mere darkness and blur. The microscopic
slide was presumably transparent; but nothing was said as to the
Digitized by Coogle
Cases of Hypnotic HyperOOBthesia. 535
transparency of the plwtograph, and yet the points distinctly visible on
the photograph must have been even smaller than the cells on the slide.
A letter with which M. Bergson has favoured me has done much to
remove these difficultie'3. It seems that the photograph was transparent,
and that the boy held it close to his eye. Moreover, after seeing the
photograph the boy could not read ordinary print. " C'est trop grand,"
he said; and it was some time before the eye (which M. Bergson
believes to have been always myopic) resumed its normal state.
It seems, then, conceivable that hypnotic suggestion had induced
(by spasm of the ciliary muscle ') some change in the shape of the
crystalline lens, which made the eye a microscope for the time
being. Mr. George Wherry has kindly communicaW to me two some-
w ha.t analogous cases, where ciliary spasm (itself induced by microscopic
or telescopic work) led to uniocular diplopia, in one case even triplopia.
In these cases irregular ciliary spasm apparently turned the lens into a
kind of multiplying glass :-is it possible that M. Bergson induced a
regular ciliary spasm, which turned the lens into a magnifier 1
Turning back to the question with which we started, the possibility
of a hypenesthetic explanation of cases of supposed telepathy, I must
add that I earnestly hope that the experiments recorded in Phantasms
qf the Living may receive careful criticism from this point of view.
Few, if any of them, will, I think, be found explicable by the cornea-
reading discussed above, but there may be other sources of error which
have escaped our care. Yet in the hands of some critics hyperresthesia
itself assumes attributes almost magical. In the Revue Philosopl.ique
for December, 1886, Dr. Ruault maintains that he and others have
frequently sent subjects to sleep" by an effort of will " in an adjoining
room; but that the real cause of the sleep was the suggestion given by
the changed sound accompl}nying the hypnotiser's quickened circulation,
which the subject hears through the wall. This is meant, it seems, to
apply to the Havre case, now well known, of sommeil adistance, where
Dr. Gibert or M. Pierre Janet can throw Mme. B. into the hypnotic
trance, " by an effort of will," from their houses to hers.l Yet I
confess that, whatever may be the true meaning of this curious history,
I find it hard to believe that a peasant woman is sent to sleep by "the
sound of a going" in the arteries of an elderly physician, at a distance
of half a mile.
Since the above note was printed in Mind for Jan. 1887, some
further experiments have been reported which may be noticed
here as bearing more or less directly on the same problem-the
1 An account of this case will be found in the Proceeding' of the S.P.R.,
Part X., Art. .. Telepathic Hypnotism."
Digi 2 N 2
536 Oases of Hypnotic Hyp(!)T'(JJ8thuia.
sufficiency or otherwise of the ordinary senses to explain certain
results noted in hypnotic hypel'lllSthesia. The hypenesthesia of
specialised sense-organs falls roughly into four divisions, as con-
cerned with sight, hearing, smell (including taste), and touch-
which, as here used, is the vaguest of the four categories. As regards
smell, there seems no assignable limit which we can pronounce Gpriori
that hypel'lllSthesia can never transcend. We have, that is to say, no
distinct knowledge either as to the diffusibility of odorous particles, or
as to the existence of odorous differences between objects not normally
thus distinguishable by man. As regards hearing, our limit is more
nearly calculable, for it depends on sound-waves, of which more is
known j but nevertheless it is hard to say at what distance, for instance,
a hypel'&lsthetic patient may disentangle her physician's step from the
confused noises of the street. As regards sight, we may have difficulties
arising from minuteness, from darkness, or from interposition of opaque
objects. The difficulty of distance may be said to be compounded of
minuteness and defect in light. The question of minuteness has already
been touched on in Dr. Bergson's case. As to darknus, we may be pre-
pared for an almost indefinite increase in retinal excitability, and for
a considerable increase in the pupil's dilatation. The interposition oJ
opaque objects seems at first sight to be a very definite obstacle. I
wi)) now, however, cite a case as to which it is not easy to form a
decided opinion j-unless, indeed, we ascribe the coincidence to chance
alone.
The case was published by Dr. Sauvaire in the RfJ1JU6 Philosophique
for March, 1887. Mlle. S., a healthy girl, was hypnotised for the first
time. It was suggested to her that there was & portrait on the back of
a certain card (apparently the king of clubs), and that she would still
see the portrait when awakened. She was awakened and recognised the
portrait on the back of the same card, jumbied in the pa.ck. This, of
course, was not specially remarkable, on the theory that some tri1ling
speck or crease affords a point de repere which enables the eyesight,
stimulated by hypnotic suggestion, to recognise a card on which for
other persons no mark is visible. But there was more than this. Another
pack of cards, which the young lady had never touched, was pls.ced before
her, face downwards. She passed them through her hands, apparently,
without turning any of them up, and as she did so she recognised
another copy of the imaginary portrait, on the back of one of the new
cards. The card was turned up, and proved to be the king of clubs-to
correspond, that is to say, with the card in the first pack on whose
back the hallucinatory portrait had originally been suggested.
Dr. Sauvaire suggests that she saw through the card, as it lay on
the table, as we should see through it if we held it up to the light.
Such an hypothesis would need strong confirmation. :u the rpgnition
Digitized by (;008le
Oa8eB of Hypnotic Hype'NUthesia. 537
was really due to hypel'lBllthesia, and was not merely a chance
coincidence, it may be suggested that the face of one card
adheres to the back of the next in differing degrees according to
the amount of paint on the card, and that a delicate sense of friction
may have been oalled into play. It has, indeed, often been suggested
that hypel'lBllthetic subjects can see through the imperfectly opaque
eyelids, and through the imperfectly opaque bandages applied thereto ;
but in such cases there has usually been strong light shining through
the bandages, while in Dr. Sauvaire's case it would seem that the
card's face was recognised while /;ying on the table, a feat more difficult
to imagine. Efforts should, of course, be made to repeat the experiment.
Somewhat different is an experiment recorded by M. de Rocha&,1
on his familiar subject Benoit, an office-clerk, whose extraordinary
suggestibility I have myself witnessed at Blois.
.. I give to Benoit," he says, .. a piece of cardboard, with the sug-
gestion that it is a mirror. He looks at himself, arranges his hair, and
his cravat." (This, of course, is mere acceptance of the suggestion.) "I
place a real mirror behind him in such a position that the reflection
from it falls on the card; he SOO8 the back of his head; I put my finger
against the mirror behind his head; he recognises my finger; I place my
watch in the same place and tum it several times; he sees sometimes
gold, sometimes something white (the watch-face), but without being
able to say exactly what the object is."
It is difficult, I think, to suppose that reflections from the cardboard
surface, imperceptible to the normal observer, really existed, and were
really discerned by the subject. And it seems possible that in this
experiment a shadow of M. de Rochas' finger may havA been thrown
by the real mirror on to the card, and the yellow and white light may
have been alternately reflected on to it from the shining surface of
the watch; while Benoit may have seen the back of his head, as
well as his face, owing to suggestion. But if the experiments could
be successfully repeated in such a way as absolutely to exclude such
explanations as these, the results might be very interesting.
Dr. Taguet, of Bordeaux, had a few years ago a patient who was
said to read words held up behind her back, and reflected on a card in
front of her. Dr. Myers went to see this patient in the ABile des
Alit!n~ at Bordeaux, in February, 1885, but at the time when he saw
her she did not p0BBeB8 the power, and I have noticed no further
account of her since that date.
M. de Rochas gives another case which, so far as it goes, recalls
some old experiments of Townshend's. He believes (p. 283) that he
rendered certain subjects by suggestion so sensitive to small degrees of
1 Lu Forcu 'lWn ~jiniu, p. 213. (Paris, Masson, 1887·)C I
Digitized by oog e
538 Oases of Hypnotic Hyperresthe8ia.
light that they recognised one another, when near at hand, in a room
thoroughly d&rkened for Reichenbach's experiments on the alleged
magnetic flames. The experiment is insufficiently described. ; but here.
too, is a line for further trial ; and in this case the sensitiveness of the
dry plate might perhaps be utilised to give a precise measure of the
degree of hypera!Sthesia attained.
Another experiment of M. de Rochas', on auditory hypenesthesi~
though plainly inconclusive as it stands, presents matter for reflection.
He rendered Benoit completely deaf by suggestion, contl'actured one of
the boy's arms, and then found that when he spoke at the end of this
arm, or indeed when touching any part of the boy's body, the voice
was heard. It is obvious that this may probably have been the mere
result of a suggestion unconsciously given to the subject that he tDa8
to hear under these conditions.
The question, however, is not so simple as it looks. It is possible,
that is to say, that the suggestion to Mar may have acted in a some-
what roundabout manner, may in BOme way have changed the condition
of arm or body as well as of ear. Compare an experiment already
given in these Proceeding8, where Mr. Gurney shouted continuously
into the ear of the subject, who was entranced; while the subject, on
his part, did not apparently hear Mr. Gurney at all, but was aware of
the lightest whisper uttered by his mesmeriser, Mr. G. A. Smith, who
stood at a distance. Such a case may be explicable either by
thought-transference or by what I have elsewhere termed 8electit:>6
higperrestllaia. It may have been analogous to "silent willing,"
the utterance of the whisper forming no essential element in the trans-
ference of the idea, or there may have been suggested hypenestbesia to
BOunds made by Mr. Smith, combined with suggested anresthesia to
BOunds made by ail other persons.
This possibility of combining hypera!Sthesia and anresthesia-
localised nervous stimulus with localised nervous inhibition-offers one
of the most hopeful avenues of hypnotic experiment. It enables us to
iBOlate certain forms of sensibility and to observe them with much less
than usual of the disturbing interruption of sensibilities on which
we are not experimenting. Suggestions, moreover, directed to the
internal viscera (which have, thus far, been inspired almost exclusively
by a therapeutic aim), may be BO arranged as to throw light on the
working of special drugs. It would be interesting to see how f&r the
viscera could take up, so to say, a suggestion to feel the action of a drug
of whose nature the subject himself was not aware. It is possible that the
action of minute doses might be thus discerned hypera!Sthetically, and
that such action might present instructi~e points of difference from the
effect of the same drug in ordinary doses.
Such, then, are BOme of the problems which may be worked at, as
Digitized by Coogle
Oases of HY'JYMtic HyperaJ8thesia. 539
it seems to me, on a suitable subject with good prospect of gaining real
instruction. I bring them forward here because it would seem that
suitable subjects are now being found in France, and because the
experiments on hypenesthesia thus far reported have been for the most
part so unsystematic as to be nearly useless.
It is a strange and disappointing fact that for many years past, and
notably since 1883, when the subject of mesmerism or hypnotism was
first broached in these ProrMdingB, so little work should have been
done in England in this direction. Beyond the experiments, scantier
tha.n could be wished, which the writers in these ProceedingB have
themselves been able to watch or to perform, there has been scarcely
anything published in English since that date which has demanded
notice. In France, on the other hand, so much has been done that
the mere report and discuBBion of French experiments has formed a great
part of our own task. This difference is largely due to the marked
superiority of the French over the English as hypnotic subjects;
a.pparently a racial difference which no effort of ours can nullify. Yet
I cannot help suspecting that more of enterprise, more of familiarity
with foreign work, on the part of the staffs of our own hospitals, might
lead to the discovery of some of those fortunate subjects, "the frogs of
the psycho-physiologist," whose special sensitiveness might teach us
lessons all the more valuable becauseattaina.ble without injury-or with
positive benefit-to the subjects themselves.
FREDERIO W. H. MYERS.
Digitized by Coogle
Oritirol Notice&.
x.
CRITICAL NOTICES.
Le j{~ Animal, par ALraBD BmBT et CR. Ftd, Medecin-
adjoint 11& Sal~triere. Paria: Ftllix Alcan, 1887.
This workman-like and brightly-written book fonDS a really valuable
addition to the literature of ita subject; and few whose fate it has been
to make any prolonged excursions into that literature will fail to realise
what high praise such a statement involves. For one who wishes to
gain a. rapid, and at the same time a tolerably complete, view of the
position of hypnotism in France, MM. Binet and Fere's treatise
would form the complement to the two recent and equally excellent
productions of the Nancy school, Dr. Bernheim's De la Suggutim&., and
Professor &aunis' Le Somnambulilme PrO'lJOfJUE. The Parisian book
has naturally a strong Parisian flavour. For scientific purposes Paris
is the centre of the earth; for hypnotic purposes the Hospice de la
Bal~triere is the centre of Paris; consequently any form of hypnotism
specially connected with that Hospice is necessarily "Le Grand
Hypnotisme "-broken reflections of which may be found, as "formell
fnutu," in Nancy, Germany, England, and other places. But a.fter all,
this is mainly a question of name and classification. The great thing
is to get all the phenomena competently observed, wherever they occur.
Our authors expressly state in their preface that their work is the
product of a school-or of the school, as disciples of Dr. Charcot very
naturally hold; and they have done their work of observation and ex-
position so well that we may all be glad to be enrolled as their and his
scholars.
Yet a word of warning seems needed, with respect to the unique
importance claimed by them for the pronounced phyrical phenomena
of hypnotism; since to grant that claim in ita full extent would not
only cast doubt on scientific results which I do not gather that they
themselves really question,l but would involve a most seriOUil
circumscription of the most promising of all fields of psychologiCll
inquiry. They contend-and with justice-that the more remarkahle
physical features of hypnotic trance are objective and unmistakeab:e;
that these afford a test of the genuineness of the condition which the
rawest sceptic cannot call in question. Now in the infancy of the subject
such a test is, of course, of great importance. It was a physical feature
-the inability to open the eyes-which led Braid to his first epoch-
1 See 8llpecially their remarks OD the work of Dr. Lij§beault, p. 57.
Digitized by Coogle
Binet et Fbe, Le Magnetisme .Animal. 541
Ulalring studies; and the serene immobility which Esdaile's patients and
others exhibited a generation ago, when their limbs were being amputated
or large tumours excised during hypnotic trance, marked another epoch
of scarcely less importance. Since, however, it is possible to simulate
inability to open the eyes, and since influential medical critics opined
that serene immobility under the amputating knife was simply the ma.rk
of the" hardened impostor," it is satisfactory to have a number of more
objective proofs accumulated. But it is one thing to see this, and to
admit, besides, the high interest for the physiologist of the specialities
observed at the Salpatriere; and another thing to identify the whole
scientific character of hypnotism, as matter of precise and verifiable
observation, with the cases where those specialities are found. The
startling objective tests still have their use; they overbear otherwise
invincible prejudice; and if there were only a dozen hypnotic "subjects"
in the world, they might be indispensable. But experimental research
has now advanced far beyond the point where the theory of simulation
could be sweepingly applied by any intelligent critic-it would be
nearly as rational to suppose that everyone who complained of stomach-
ache or neuralgia was shamming, on the ground that these complaints
are capable of being shammed. Hypnotic science would be a reality,
and its palmary interest would remain, if there were not a single
hystero-epileptic patient in the world. We find plenty of healthy
persons who exhibit even the bodily signs in a quite unmistakeable
form. The muscular condition which enables an ordinal"Y "subject"
to hold his arm extended for many minutes without the usual
physiological signs of fatigue, or, supported on two chairs by head and
feet alone, to support a heavy weight for a prolonged period, are
sufficiently beyond simulation; and the same may be said, taking the
phenomena en maBse, of the smiling endurance of severe bodily
inflictions, of the failure of boys withont pocket-money to pick up
sovereigns which they might have for the stooping, and many other
similar eccentricities. Even the characteristic up-rolling of the ey~
balls, if simulated, would imply nothing IE1BB than a world-wide
conspiracy. But we might exclude bodily symptoms altogether, and the
cumulative proof, arising from the ever-growing improbability that
hundreds of persons in hundreds of places, guiltless of theories and
unacquainted with one another, could build up by their several
acts of conscious 01" unconscious deceit a large and consistent body of
psychological results, would still remain as complete as that afforded
by the most inimitable phenomena of plastic, rigid, or irritable
muscles.
Even so, our authors might urge--and in fact they have urged-that
the best material for scientific study is the perfect type, and that then
deviations and rudimentary forms can be readily understood. But this
Digitized by Coogle
542 Oritical Notice8.
plea has not really more force than the other. It is significant that the
accepted French name for a hypnotic .. subject" is la fIUIlade. But
hypnotism is not a disease, though it is often a remedy; and & picked
malade of the Salpetriere presents a no more perfect type-may indeed
present a much less perfect type-of the psychological peculiarities
connected with the state, than many a healthy man or woman, who on
physical grounds might fall short of the dignity even of a/orme fnuu.
Nor have the physical peculiarities, so far, in either their developed or
their rudimentary forms, thrown any light whatever on the psychical ;
so that the view which our authors put forward, that to pass from the
former to the latter is to follow the rule of Descartes and pass from
the simple to the complex, specious as it looks, has in reality little
meaning. They do not themselves attempt to make any such
transition.
The substantial value of the work is, however, quite independent
of these considerations. If the Paris specialities are somewhat of a
luxury, we none the less want to know all about them; and this book
supplies the want without being by any means a mere monograph.
It opens with a bird's-eye view of the hundred years' history of
"animal magnetism," from the baquet of Mesmer to the establishment
of the trois teats by Charcot. One is surprised to find no mention of
Esdaile, certainly the most important figure in mesmeric history
between Braid and Liebeault; but on the whole this rapid epitome is
excellent. The tentative advance of skilled observation and methodical
thought into the domain of marvels so strangely opened up by
charlatans and amateur healers is graphically presented; and the
writers show their superiority to ordinary scientific prejudice by
admitting that in this domain, as in others, scientific methods may
sometimes reveal marvels as well as explode them. It is significant to
find the subject of thought-transference (which, by the way, was
brought to the front in England some years earlier than our authors
represent) treated with reserve and respect-for the first time,
perhaps, in any book of scientific pretensions, written without professed
belief in the reality of the phenomenon. Here, however, I must
again venture some brief comment in respect of two of the
criticisms made.
Referring to the results and arguments in M. Richet's well-known
paper of December, 1884, which introduced the subject to French
science, our authors object that "the calculus of probabilities is not
adapted to decide a question of this nature." This is true in a sense-
in the same sense in which it would be true to say that an examination
of 110 man's heart is not adapted to decide the question whether or not
he is in sound health. The man's heart may be all right, but his lungs
or liver may be out of order: so results of 8oi-diBant "psychical"
Digitized by Coogle
Binet et Fbe, Le Magnetisme Animal. 543
experiments may far surpass anything that the calculus would allow
us to attribute to chance, but may still be due to something other than
thought-transference-namely, to deliberate fraud, or to unconscious
interpretation of physical signs. But if the physician discovers that
all the other organs of his patient's body are sound, then an
examination of the heart is eminently adapted to decide the question
of health-we can guess what a Life-Assurance Company would say of a
physician who gave his certificate without it. And in the same way,
when the hypotheses of fraud and of unconscious physical signs are
excluded-the first by the character of the expElrimenters, the second
by the conditions of the experimen~the examination of probabilities,
and in cases which admit of numerical measurement the application of
the calculus of probabilities, is not only adapted to decide the question
ot thought-transference, but is the one indispensable means of deciding
it. The issue being left clear between thought-transference and chance,
the experimenter who should neglect to take account of chance would
be on a par with the physician who forgot that his patient had
a heart.
The other item of criticism on this subject is a.tniably meant, but
none the less must be strongly demurred to. A sort of excuse is made
for thought-transference ana its advocates, in the last resort, on the
ground that, however wrong the hypothesis may be, the facts which have
led to it are likely to prove interesting physiological curiosities,
showing the degree to which thought can betray itself by physical
signs--as by rudimentary movements of the muscles of articulation,
and by changes in the vascular and secretive systems. General
suggestions of this sort are misleading, inasmuch as they have no
relation to the evidence on which the hypothesis really rests. How-
ever" externally visible" people's thoughts may habitually be through
unconscious movements of their lips or larynx, they cannot be thus
visible to those who do not use their eyes to see them; and however
much aware "subjects notoriously endowed with sensorial hyper-
excitability" may be of "thermic or secretory modifications" in their
own bodies, it remains to be explained how the thermic or secretory
modifications of some one else's body should reveal to them whether
he is thinking of the two of clubs or of the five of diamonds.
The historical chapter is followed by an account of the various
means by which hypnotic trance may be produced. On this there is
not much to remark. The authors point out, as I think with justice,
that the analogy of hypnotic to ordinary physiological sleep must not
be pressed; though they somewhat detract from the strength of their
own position by a theory that all hypnogenetic processes act by nervous
fatigue. The ultimate nervous events involved are really as unknown
to us now as they were in the time of Braid; and the key, e.g., to
izedbyGoogle
Oritical Notices.
many cases of hypnotiaation by suggestion, or to Dr. Pitres' rapid
entrancementa by pressure of special areas of the body, seems no Dlore
likely to be found in" fatigue" than in "instability," or " hypertrophy,"
or "congestion." or other suppoaa.ble conditions. Even in C&SeI
where the means of entrancement is suggestive of fatigue, a difficulty
would often remain in co~ecting the means with the result-which,
as I have pointed out before (Proceedingll, Vol. II., pp. 272-4), is often
not a dulling, but a special alertness and mobility, of mental life. On
the whole, however, our authors keep commendably free from premature
or fanciful theories j and the emphasis which they have given to the
physical aspecta and forms of hypnogeny is, I think, the right
corrective to the tendency of the Nancy school to recognise no other
agency than suggestion. 1
The exposition now proceeds to the actual phenomena. of trance ;
and here we have naturally a predominance of physiological detail The
peculiarities of muscle, tendon and nerve, observed in hysterical
"subjects," and the "three states" of lethargy, catalepsy, and
somnambulism, are clearly described and illustrated. I find here little
matter for special comment, but three remarks suggest themselves. (1)
Speaking of muscular contractures due to "lethargic" hyper-excita-
bility, the authors state that even when the excitation is applied to the
body of a muscle, the contracture is re~i.e., is produced by the
ascent of a nervous current to the brain and a re-descent by the motor
nerves j and they regard this as proved by the fact that contracture of
one sterno-mastoid muscle, which turns the head to one side, can be
corrected by excitation of the other-this being " a sort of interference
which has no seat except in the nervous centres." Surely the proof is
rather a lame one. If I can tum a person's head to the right by
pulling the right ear, and bring it back to ita normal position by pulling
the left ear, without setting up any interference in his nervous centres,
why should not his own mechanically stimulated muscles do the like t
(2) In the account of these lethargic contractures (p. 83). it is stated
that " under the influence of continuous traction, the contractured limb
yields by degrees, like one which has been made rigid by an act of will."
It is puzzling, therefore, to find (p. 98) this effect of continuous traction
included among the physical signs which are " guarantees against aimuJa.
tion." (3) We are told (p. 92) that when a hallucination is imposed on
a " subject" in c'.lotalepsy, the fixed attitude of the limbs" gives place
to complex co-ordinated movements, harmonising with the idea
1 See, for instance, the remarks (pp. 128·9) on the production of paralysis
of the arm (1) by 8uggestion of the idea, (2) by the application of a vibratiDg
diapason to certain points on the head. An identical result is produced in one
case by pBYchical (which of course means psycho-physical), inthe other by pnrely
phytlical, means.
Digitized by Coogle
Binet et Fbe, Le Magnttisrne .Animal. 545
suggested." This is very interesting; and if I lived at Nancy, I should
certainly fasten on the fact, as a strong support to the view that the
cataleptic fixity itself is really, in a way, the result of suggestion-that
there is a true psychica.l obedience, and not merely an idiopathic physical
symptom, in the retention of the impressed attitudes.
Passing now to admitted psychica.l features, we have the main
peculiarities-sensory anresthesia. and hypenesthesia., extreme retentive-
n.ess of memory, extending to remote facts of normal life, general
oblivion on waking, rapport with the hypnotiser, &c., &c.-presented
-with judicious comments. Some of the statements border on the
IDarvellous. A hypnotised girl recognises and names a doctor with
-whom her only connection was that at the age of two she had been an
inmate of an institution where he visited. "Selective sensibility" some-
times reaches such a pitch that the patient can identify "each one of
a. thousand operators," and sometimes "can recognise their touch through
bis clothes." Very curious, too, are the accounts of divided rapport,
the "subject" welcoming A's touch on the right side and B's on the
left, while resenting and resisting A's touch on the left and B's on
the right; 1 and actually re8f\rving her right eye for hallucinations
imposed by A and her left for those imposed by B. In hypnotism
stranger things than this may yet be true. But as regards hypnotic
'l"apport in general, I cannot think that it is rightly represented (pp. 110
and 133) as a mere exaggerated form ofthe normal attraction which one
person often exercises on another. As a rule, of course, a person would
not submit to be hypnotised, leas!; of all frequently, by anyone whose
manner or person they objected to; but there are quite enough cases to
prove that personal dread and aversion form no barrier to the establish-
ment of a peculiar influence which the" subject" in vain tries to throw
oft'. On the subject of memory, I need only remark that our authors
seem to have too readily admitted the view that the events and ideas
of the trance can always be recalled, on waking, by appropriate
suggestions. I have explained above (p. 281) my dissent from M.
Delbaluf on this head. As far as a study of the literature and my own
humble dealings with formes frustes enable me to judge, the revivable
memory is the exception rather than the rule, if any but the lightest
stage of trance has been induced.
The next chapter consists chiefly of a rescript of Dr. Charcot's
classica.l essay (Compte8 rmdm de l'Academie des Sci6ncea, 1882) de-
1 Through the kindness of M. Fa-e, Mr. Myers and I witnessed this
phenomenon as exhibited by II 1& nomm~e Wit • • ." in August, 1885. In that
case, however, the result W8.11 clearly due to suggestion, not to the mere contact,
by which (8.CC'.ordiDg to our authors) anyone can II d~ve1opper a BOn profit lee
phenoml'lneB d'IUectivite, quand DO maJade est en ~tat de BOmnamblllisme
iodi1r~rent."
Digitized by Coogle
546 Critical Notices.
scribing the three hypnotic stages of "les grandes bysMriques." The
authors candidly admit that different results might be obtained by
giving the subjects" a different hypnotic education"; but I do not
gather that they have any doubt that Dr. Oharcot's modes of procedure
would produce the three stages, at any rate to BOme appreciable extent.,
in a quite fresh hystero-epileptic patient, who had never seen any
other, and in whose presence the experimenters preserved absolute
silence.1 They may very likely be right; but it cannot be too com-
pletely realiaed-and for the best observer in the world it may require
BOme time to realiae--how subtle a thing " hypnotic education" is, and
how slight are the sigDB by which a hypnotic "subject" will sometimes
divine the operator's wishes and expectations. Nor is it easy (may I
suggest ') even for a taciturn Northerner to preserve absolute silence
for several minutes together, when keenly interested in what he is
observing. These remarks are not made in any cavilling spirit; it is
very far from my wish to question the care and sagacity of Dr. Charcot
and his pupils. But it would be a legitimate satisfaction to those who
live in a country where hystero-epilepsy is comparatively infrequent.,
and who have no opportunity for direct observation, if the full details
of a few crucial experiments-carried out with quite new patients
and if possible outside the walls of the Salpetriere--could be given to
the world. A similar. remark applies to a topic which occurs inci-
dentally in the chapter under review, and becomes much more
prominent later in the book-the influence of a magnet on patients
who are unaware of its proximity. That a magnet abould produce
distinct physical effects on the human organism is, if true, one of the
most remarkable facts of modern science. It is a fact which French
,avants of repute assert as a matter of quite ordinary experience; yet
probably not half-&-dozen physicians or physiologists out of France
have either witnessed it or believe in its reality. Some years ago a com-
mittee of our own Society published BOme results which pointed strongly
in this direction (Proceeding', Vol. I., p. 230, and Vol. II., p. 56);
but they were too few and uncertain in their occurrence to ndmit of
positive conclusions. With the French results it is otherwise; they
seem indefinitely repeatable; and that being BO, the present state of
things--confident assertion on one side of the Ohannel, ignorant indif-
ference or incredulity on the other--seems nothing short of a scientific
scandal. I am quite disposed to lay the blame to the account of
English torpor rather than of French precipitancy; but I cannot but
think that our foreign CQITI,jrere. would sooner win the insular ear if
they more explicitly recognised the staggering unexpectedness of the
facts which they smoothly recite, as well as the magnitude of the
1 It is only fair to state that our authors themae1ves, in dealing directly
with the subject of suggestion, emphasise these very pointsJpp. 142-3).
Digitized by Googie
,I
Binet et Fbi, Le Magnetisme .Animal. 547
issues raised; and if they would make a point, as each new form of
:magnetic effect presents itself, of placing on record crucial experiments,
in which every condition and every guarantee should be carefully
detailed. It is surely too unceremonious to say, for instance, as our
authors do (p. 118), " We have ascertained that, by bringing a magnet
near the arm of a patient in natural sleep, or near the vertex of one
who is in lethargy, one produces a new state, . . . in which the
respiration is imperceptible, the insensibility is complete, and the
appearance that of actual death." Writers who are so enamoured
of "objective" experiments, and so hard on results which have
to be accepted in part on the strength of the observer's experience and
judgment (p. 125), may surely be expected in their own records to
le&\·e as little as possible to be taken on trust.
The chapter on Suggestion, which contains much good sense,
presents also some matter for criticism. I am glad to find the authors,
though they have previously seemed doubtful whether any formula can
be found for the psychical phenomena of hypnotism, coming more than
once to the very -verge of one which I have myself suggested-
"psychical reflex action." I must own, however, to sheer bewilderment
at their attempted explanation of the "subject's" affection by the idea
of something as in reality an affection by psripheral excitation, because
forsooth an idea is built up out of remembered sensations, and "Nihil
est in intellectu, &c." This is surely carrying I'hampionship of the
periphery, and the war with Nancy, beyond the bounds of reason. I
presume that Messrs. Binet and Fere, like everyone else, would speak
of a murderer as conceiving a crime, or a hero an exploit, with his mind
or with his brain, not with his skin or retina; and in this respect
hypnotically-suggested ideas stand on precisely the same ground as any
others. The fact adduced, that certain bodily effects which can be
originated by suggestion can also be originated by direct physical
stimuli (see above, p. 544, note), is wholly irrelevant; for the suggested
idea which produces the effect is of the effect, not of the peculiar
physical stimulus which may produce a similar effect on another
occasion or with another "subject." The idea of a paralysed arm
which paralyses an arm is not built up out of remembered
sensations of a vibrating diapason. After this brief lapse, the account
flows smoothly on. The various classes of suggestion are clearly
indicated; and it is satisfactory to find that a special difficulty
connected with "negative hallucinations" is recognised. The point of
the difficulty, however, seems in this passage to have been missed; for
the effect is represented as a sort of sensory paralysis, strictly parallel
to motor-paralysis produced by suggestion. The two things are, of
course, alike in being both effects of inkibitio'n-" un mot qui
n'explique rien," as our authors trenchantly observe; but- t~mre
Digitized by ~OVOlt::
548 Critical Notices.
Burely much more markedly unlike in fundamental character. In the
first place, the arm which cannot move simply fails to do somethiDf
which an act of will is normally required to bring about, whereas ~
eye that cannot see fails to do something which it normally cannot
help doing; BO that the inhibition is in the one case of an occa.siona.:
action, in the other of a continuous function. But this is not a.l.I.
That the idea of inability to move an arm should produce tbe inability
is really one of the most comprehensible effects of suggestion, so far
as anything can be called comprehensible of which the physical details
are unknown to us; for all that happens is that the connection
between a motor centreand the higher ideational centres is shut oft: Bot
that the idea of inability to see a particular person or object should
produce the inability, introduces a new and complex psychological
puzzle. For here there is no disconnection of the optic nerve, or of
any particular fibres of the optic nerve, from the higher centres. The
whole optical appara.tus retains normal activity; the invisible person
may occupy every portion of the field of vision in turn, and ,,-ill
everywhere remain invisible, while every other object in the room
is clearly seen. Clearly, then, the effect is very much more
than a mere sensory inhibition, parallel to the motor inhibition
in the other case. As M. Fare himself and Professor Wi1lia.m James1
had rightly pointed out, the invisible thing must in a sense be sura in
order to be not seen; it must be '1'ecogniBed as the subject of the sugges-
tion. That is to say, perception includes it, but ignores or "cuts" it.
Thus the principle of association of ideas, which our authors represent
as here completely breaking down, is truly maintained; the idea of the
person who it was suggested would be invisible must, in BOme obscure
way, be represented in the mind which a.verts itself from regarding
him.
In the account of hypnotic hallucinations, the chief feature is
naturally that modification of imaginary visual objects by optical
instruments-prism, spy-glass, or mirror--on which both our authors
have written separately. The investigation is of great interest, if only
as showing the remarkable hyperaesthesia and retentiveness which are
involved in the observation of the real points de '1'epWe with which the
imaginary object links, so to speak, its visible existence; but having
discussed it elsewhere, 2 I need say no more of it here than that these
special optical delusions seem as peculiar to "the atmosphere of
the Sa.lp~triere" as minl,ge to that of the desert. Neither normal nor
ordinaryhysterical "subjects" are affected bythem. I remark,bytheway,
1 Procudi1l!J8 0/tMA.merican Societylor P81JcMeal BuearcA, Part II., p. 97.
I Procuding8, Vol. III., pp. 163·7, and PAantasms qf the Lif7ing,
VoL I., pp. 469·70.
Digitized by Coogle
Binet et Fbe, Le M01lnetisme Animal. 549
a repetition ofan old mistake as to Brewster, who is represented as having
proved that a hallucinatoryimage could be doubled bypressureonthe side
of one eye-ball. What he really did was to state the exact opposite-
viz., that a ha.llucinatory image was to be distinguished from a real
object by the fact of not being so doubled. He, of course, could not
have said this had he known of a single case where the hallucinatory
image was doubled by pressure; but on the other hand I am not
aware that he ever supported his own statement by adducing a single
case of its Jailing to be doubled. Instances of the doubling have
been credibly reported. Of further points discussed, special mention is
due to a very interesting series of experiments carried out by MM.
Marie and Azoula.y (p. 176), proving the distinctly longer time which it
requires to perceive a hallucinatory object, when presented afresh, than
to recognise a real one. This fact seems to show, what would naturally
be expected, that the recognition of the point de repere, and the imposi-
tion on it of the imaginary figure, is a double operation. Very interest-
ing also are the observations as to the colourlessness of hallucinations
suggested to an achromatopic eye; the production of complementary
colours by hallucinatory images; the mixture of imaginary colours; and
the close relation between visual activity and the general sensibility of
the external tissues of the eye, exhibited when the visual activity is
induced by hallucination no less than by normal excitation.
The topic of esthesiogenes brings us into that region of marvels to
which I have already referred-the various effects of a magnet on the
human organism. "This agent has nothing mysterious about it," say
our authors ; "it acts on the nervous system like 8 weak electric
current." This, of course, explains nothing; weak electric currents
ha.ve never been supposed able to affect a human body across space.
However, we need not chop straws as to how far the existence of a.
quite unguessed relation of living tissues to physica.l agencies is
" mysterious"; it is at any rate a fact of surpassing interest; and
our authors' list of precautions (p. 195) certainly conveys the impres-
sion that they have justified their own conviction of its reality. They do
not perhaps exceed their rights in claiming that it would weigh nothing
against the genuineness of their results if these could not be repeated
with other" subjects" ; since the peculiar sensibility in question is, for
aught they know, a peculiarity of "les grandes hysteriques." But in
view of the extraordinary susceptibility of some neurotic persons to
suggestion, one cannot but wish that the list of precautions included
the invariable employment of an electro-magnet, of which the current
could be turned on and off without the "subject's" knowledge.
The phenomena first described belong to the class of transfers. A
unilateral hallucination of the eye or ear is transferred, by the applica-
tion of a magnet, to the other side of the body; not symmetrically, hqw-
Digitized by G§)~8le
550 Critwal Notices.
eVtlr, in the visual cases-the imaginary profile which the right eye sa....
as turned to the right is similarly seen by the left eye.1 The transfer
is accompanied by a pain, localised, according to our authors, in a
special area which may probably be the visual or the auditory. Exter-
nal stimulation of the skull at the parts thus indicated, at a time when
the" subject" is in catalepsy, is said to restore movement to the fixed
eyes, and hearing to the deaf ears. But the more remarkable cases are
those where the hallucination is bi-lateral. Here, we are told, the
proximity of the magnet annuli the hallucination. The imaginary
object disappears; and not only so, but a real object similarly dis-
appears; the gong whose noise had just before struck a patient into
catalepsy ceases to be visible to her eyes when the magnet is held near
her head, a.nd may then be struck again and again with ,iolence with-
out producing any effect on her. Similarly (p. 240) an object rendered
invisible by suggestion becomes visible again under the induence of the
magnet. The same means will suppress memory in the same way, and
cause a "subject" to forget the nature of an object which she has just
before been correctly describing. Our authors apply to this iniluence
of the magnet the term polarisation. But besides merely replacing an
activity by a paralysis, polarisation may apparently produce positive
complementary results. The "subject" who has been gazing at an
imaginary red cross, at the approach of the magnet begins to see green
rays radiating from it; and gradually the green becomes all the colour
visible, and the red cross in the middle is replaced by a white one.
A similar relation of polarisation to aintple transfer is described in
the next chapter, in the department of movements and acts. A patient
is told to make a pied de nez at a bust of Gall with her left hand; a
magnet is placed near her right hand,and she is woke. She makesfourteen
piedB de nez with her left hand; then the movement gradually ceases,
and is taken up by the right hand. On the withdrawal of the magnet
the transfer is again produced, and the left hand recommences. Similarly
the magnet will cause a series of numbers which the "subject» is
writing with the right hand to be continued with the left; and while
the left hand is thus employed, the right has lost all its writing faculty.
And again, an order to carry out a series of actions with the one hand
is executed throughout with the other hand, though the magnet has
only been in the "subject's" proximity at the very beginning of the
experiment. Polarisation paralyses the power of carrying out move-
ments with either hand. The" subject" is rolling up a pellet, when a
magnet is brought near the back of her neck; her ha.nds begin to
I It is impollllible, without great cumbrousneu, to avoid speaking of hallu-
cinations 88 seen by tM 6ye or heard by eM ear. Such, of couree, is the .. sub-
ject's" own impression, but the actual physical event corresponding with the
imptelli.on takes place in central nervous centres, not in the external organ.
Digitized by Coogle
Bimt et Fbt, Le Magnetiame Anim.al. 551
tremble, she endf>avours to proceed, but has to give it up. But if the
suggested movement is associated with an emotion, the alleged effect is
to produce the opposite emotion. A" subject" to whom it has been
suggested to strike the experimenter, and who has actually aimed a blow
at him, is incited by a hidden magnet at her feet to exclaim, "I want
to kiss him," and can only be prevented from doing so by force!
Confirmatory examples of this "psychic polarisation," or reversal of
ideas and emotional impulses, have since been described by MM.
Bianchi and Sommer, in the Revue Philosophique for February, 1887,l
Further topics of interest in this 10th chapter are the effects of
suggestion in producing the "attitudes passionelles "; the confinement
of suggested acts to one side of the body; the "echo-speaking," which
Berger discovered to be producible in some hypnotic" subjects" by the
application of the hand to their head or the nape of the neck; the
diminished reaction-time in this echo-speaking-the results here con-
firming the experiments of Professor Stanley Hall (Mind, VoL VIII.,
p.170)in hypnotic reaction-time in general and contrasting in an interest-
ing way with the increased time nece88&ry for distinct psychic reactions,
such as the re-establishment of a hallucinatory image in its former
place (see p. 549 above); the independent reasoning, and often the in-
genuity, which" subjects" will often bring to bear, in or after the
execution of suggested acts; and the obstinacy with which suggestions
bearing on some particular act, or class of acts, are often resisted.
(Oompare a case which I described in Proceedings, Vol. II., p. 287.)
And specially I would draw attention to a certain difference between
cataleptic and suggested somnambulic attitudes (p. 220), which certainly
tends to suggest, as against the Nancy view, that hypnotic
catalepsy is not a mere effect of suggestion. But many more experiments
of a precise kind are wanted. I have certainly seen a "subject's"
extended arm, stiffened by suggestion, tremble and drop in the way that
our authors describe; but then the stage of trance produced was of
the very lightest; and there is no doubt, I think, that in some "sug-
gestion" cases fatigue and its physical symptoms do not supervene
nearly so soon as they would in normal conditions..
The next chapter, which takes up again the subject of sensory
paralyses produced by suggestion, is rich in interesting facts. For
instance, a "subject" to whom a purse had been rendered invisible,
will equally fail to see the money which comes out of it; one to whom
a particular person had been rendered invisible could not see him for
some days, and then, on regaining the power to see him, took him for
a stranger visiting the hospital; one, in whom pressure of a particular
1 See also "Nuove Ricercbe nell' Ipnotismo," pel Dott. Guiseppe d'Abundo,
in La P8icAiatria for 1886, Fasc. I., p. 68.
Digitized by G<i\agIe
552 Critical Notice8.
spot would always produce a hysterical attack, remained perfectly
indifferent when the pressure was exercised by a person rendered
invisible by suggestion. Colours rendered invisible by sugge-stion
are said to have been revived in memory by the proximity of a magnet.
and they also give rise to subsequent complementary imagt'll-showing
that the invisible colour has affected the sensory centre in the same
way as if it had been visible. This is a strong proof that the phy.U:al
process in "negative hallucination" has its seat in some higher part
of the brain than the sensory centre, and is thus in complete accordance
with what was said above (p. 548) as to the complexity of the accom-
panying pBychical condition. On that point, by the way, I find myself
no less at variance with our authors than before j for they now
describe the special peculiarity of the condition in much the same
words as I have myself employed, yet attempt to give it a sort of ex-
planation by denying it any psychical side. Not only do they illustra.te
the fact that there must be, in a sense, recognition, and so sight, of the
invisible object, but they admit that in some cases this demands "a
very delicate and a very complex operation, and a sustained effort of
attention." The aasumption that such an act is a piece of me"" un-
conscious cerebl'8.tion seems to me no very plausible substitute for the
hypothesis, puzzling though it be, that on the mental stage recognition
is compatible with aversion of attention.
We pass on in the next chapter to the effect of suggestion
in producing motor pal'8.1yses. Here the chief points to note are
the general accompaniment of the paralysis by anlllBthesia j the exact
correspondence of anresthetic area. with the area. of the pal'8.1ysis; the I
f'Xaggel'8.tion of the tendon-reflexes, as in some para.lyses of organic
origin j the increase of force in the left arm during the paralysis of the
right, and even of skill in the left hand when some particular process, ,
such as writing, is forbidden to the right (p. 256)-facts which recall
the alleged effects of the magnet, and are regarded by our authors as
due to mppleance between the two cerebra.l hemispheres j the
production of aphasia in conjunction with suggested paralysis of the
right arm, due (they hold) to the proximity of the speech-centre to the
motor-centre involved j paralysis with contracture caused by the ideA
of excitation at the spot where actual pressure would produce i~.g.. I
the gr~ffe llthargiq!UJ following suggestion of pressure at a particular
spot on the fore-arm. In their account of partw paralyses, which
merely inhibit a particular action, our authors describe an effort made
by the patient to perform the action-flexion of the thumb-aa haling
resulted in a violent extension. This is confirmatory of a less extreme
case which I described some years ago (Proceedings, Vol. II., pp. 288-9)-
the instant contraction of the biceps muscle in opposition to slight
hardenings of the triceps which the" subject" produced, with great effort,
Digitized by Coogle
BVnet et Fbi, Le Magnitisme .Animal. 553
when offered a sovereign if he would extend his arm. But the attempted
comparison between such opposition-effects, and the production of com-
plementary images by colours the sight of which has been suppressed
by suggestion, seems an unfortunate piece of ingenuity. For in the
motor-ca.ses we have simply nervous energy directed to a particular
spot in the body, and taking the only alternative channel when it
finds the desired one closed. In the colour-cases there is no question of
any alternative channel, and the physical process at the sensory centre-
fatigue of certain nervous elements, or whatever it may be-is precisely
the same as if the colour had produced its normal effect in consciousness.
The true sensory parallel to the motor-cases would beif the suppression
of a real colour produced an impression of the complementary colour
which was flOt produced where there had been no suppression; for
then it might be conjectured that the central elements responded with
increased force to stimulation from the one colour through their
enforced blindness to the other; but our authors have not recorded
any example of such an effect.1 Of special interest are the
"systematic paralyses," where some complicated set of movements,
such as those of writing, or of playing the piano, are rendered
impossible. The selection may be of the most arbitrary sort; for
instance, a "subject" is rendered unable to write the word non,
though he can write any number of other words containing the letters
nand 0 (p. 254). Our authors represent this as an inhibition, not of
movements, but of co-ordination of movements. It may be suspected,
however, that the caU'3e lies further back-that the motor energy is, so
to speak, prevented at the very outset from directing itself to that par-
ticular word. The test, which does not seem to have been tried, would
be to set the unsuspecting "subject" to write a number of words
in one of· which the syllable non occurred. . If this word were
written, the inability certainly could not be that of grouping
these three letters. And, in general, it seems to me that
the facts of systematic paralysis indicate something distinctly
beyond mere failure in co-ordination, and. ajO'l'tiori beyond the mere
" paralysis of the motor-centre," which a few pages later (p. 258) we
find represented as the "fundamental fact" in all these effects of
suggestion. It isjust here, in myview,that theparallel between the sensory
and the motor paralyses might fairly be pressed-the physical cause in
either case lying in a cerebral tract higher than the specific centres of
sense or movement. Our authors, "averting their regard" from these
1 Their language at this place (p. 249) would imply that they had given
such lion example, the " 8Ubject" seeing & green square while actually
gazing at &red one, whose colour had been suppressed; but in the experiment
to which they must be referring (p. 235) the complementary image is described
as COfI8IlCUU'I1e, and is just ~h&t would be produced in normal condiHog@. I
Digitized by ~u08 e
554 Oritical Notices.
higher tracts (without the excuse of hypnotic suggestion!) are led to
treat any psychical facta connected with them aa aecondary aDd
insignificant. Thus they end the discussion on " paralyses of will," in
the chapter now under review, by aa.ying that it matters little whether
a person's own account of an inability is that he cannoC do the
thing, or that he dou fIOt wUh to do it, or that he dou not
know how to do it; becanse all three ca.aea involve some
functional disturbance of the motor-centres. So may excess alike
of pleasure and of pain involve some functional disturbance of the
heart. Such treatment of fundamental psychological distinctions is
hardly of a piece with the immediately succeeding paragraphs (p. 262),
in which the long neglect of hypnotism by psychologists is deplored,
and its claim to a foremost place in the study of mind is strongly
enforced.
The following chapter, on thetherapeutical applications of hypnotism
and the" medicine of the imagination," though eminently sensible aa far
aa it goes, is short, and ('.aIls for little comment. I must remark, how-
ever, that the dogmatic assertion that" suggestion only cures affections
which are capable of being modified spontaneously, or by the influence
of various external agents," seems decidedly premature. The agency
which can produce a blister in a few hours-a result which our authors
accept (p. 146), but which a few years ago scarcely any instructed
physiologist would have believed-is not one whose physiological limits
can be laid down in a single trenchant phrase.
The final chapter, " Hypnotism and Responsibility," gives a sketch
of the various ways in which hypnotism might come into contact with
the criminal law. These may be epitomised aa follows. (1) Someone
may profess to have been subjected to injury while in the hypnotic
trance-a profession which may be true, or deliberately false, or due
to a deluded imagination, or the result of hypnotic suggestion, which
haa either caused him to see something which waa not fact, or to fail to
see something which waa fact. (2) Someone may have been subjected to
injury in the hypnotic trance, but, owing to post-hypnotic oblivion, may
be unable, ina normal state, to bear witness to the fact. (3) Someone may
have been instigated to commit a crime, either during the hypnotic
trance or afterwards, by a command impressed during trance. (4)
Someone may make a false confession of a crime, under the influence of
a previous hypnotic command. The difficulties and pitfalls which would
await the "expert" witness in such ca.ses are set forth with due
caution j and here the stress laid on the value of objective physical
signs, when it is a question of whether a person is hypnotisable or not,
seems quite in place. The treatise concludes with two very
sound principles i-that attempts to extort truth by hypnotising
suspected or accused persons against their will are illegitimate; and
Digitized by Coogle
Dr. Gules de la, Towrette, L'HypnotiBme, &c. 555
that experimentation on human material must be pursued with the
utmost caution, and must never be prostituted to the gratifica.tion of
vulgar curiosity.
I am sorry to part with so interesting a book. If I have seemed
to dwell principa.lly on disputable points, this has been in some
measure forced on me by the nature of my task. The authors
themselves expressly state that they consider the subject not ripe for
general conclusions j consequently their work contains no broad views
or sweeping hypotheses of which a popular outline might have been
presented at second-hand. The book is eminently one of special facts
and special discussions j and in such a case the reviewer's most
instructive course seems to be to deal with points of difference--
to criticise, in fact, rather than to seek to reproduce, and to alight
where the path is tangled, rather than to retrace it where it is clear.
The reader who desires to master the facts in detail will naturally go to
the original; of many of them the account hardly admits of being
shortened; but even a brief critical survey of the manner in which
they have been presented and interpreted may suggest the nature of
the problems involved to some who can forego the minutia! of
muscular contractions or complementary images. My only regret
would be if this treatment seemed to anyone incompatible with a
genuine sense of the high qualities-the ca.re, the candour, and the
ingenuity-which the work displays. Though modest alike in its form
and in its claims, it worthily sustains the high scientific reputation of
its authors and their school.
'F.nMUND GURNBY.
L'Hypnotiame et lea Beau Analogues au Point de Vue Medico-legal,
par Ie DR. GILLBS DB LA TOURBTl'E, Preparateur du Oours de
Medecine Legale a. la Fa.culte. Preface de M. LB DR. P.
BROUARDBL. Paris: Libra.irie PIon, 1887.
That a treatise more than bOO pages long should discuss, and treat
as a pressing need, the recognition of hypnotism by the French code,
certainly shows that the subject is in a very advanced stage, inasmuch
as the law of the land is usually the very last stronghold into which a.
new conclusion of science forces a passage. As in all the English
annals of mesmerism there seems to be no case betokening any necessity
for legislation, and as, if any danger existed, legislation in this country
could only be got either by a popular agitation, which is unlikely, or
Digitized by Coogle
656 Oritiool Notices.
by an agitation of medical experts in the subject, who hardly here exist
at all, it is fair to say that the question to which Dr. Gilles de la
Tourette volwninously devotes himself is not yet a British interest.
Of such a question it is natural that a Frenchman should work out the
theoretical possibilities before the maBB of English people are alive to
the bare facta. Bare, indeed, the facts themselves are so far from
being, that I shall have to criticise Dr. Gilles de la Tourette closely
upon his version of them. His book is in effect, if not in purpose, &
counterstroke of optimism from Paris against the warnings of danger
published from time to time by Dr. Li~geois, of Nancy, referred to in
Mr. F. Myers' first article in Proc«di.ng. X., and beat summarised in
the ReVUIJ lk fHypnoti8me, No.3, p. 82, September, 1886. Another
treatment of the question on the same side is to be found in the first
number of the same journal, by Dr. Ladame, of Geneva. A main
purpose of Dr. de la Tourette is to re&BBure the world against the fear
of crimes, committed in real life and out of the human laboratories of
the hospitals, under the in1luence of hypnotic or post-hypnotic
suggestion. The force of his re&BBurance depends almost entirely on "
proposition which he shares with the rest of the Paris school, and
which vitiates, if false, nearly the whole of his optimism. Briefty
stated, it is that all these artificially produced mental and bodily states
are "nevroses," or aa we should say, pathological: that a hypnotic
subject is a "malade," and generally haa either hysteria or its germs,
which renewed hypnotising tends to bring out; and that the phenomena
of natural somnambulism, of hypnotism provoked on persons apparently
robust, and of the confessed "n~vropathes" of the Sal~triere, are all
brunches of the same fatal tree, hysteria. It would follow that the
symptoms and stages of hypnotism in the hysterical patients of MM.
Charcot, Richer, Dumontpallier, and Magnin, so far aa they-imperfect
aa the agreement on them is I-are to be expected and similarly tested
for in the case of persons apparently robust. Now the doctor's true
and secondary proposition, that all the cases which have yet come before
the French Courts have involved hysteria, is not to be confounded with
his untrue fundamental proposition. which sometimes appears in the
form that" sujets sains" do really exist, but are to be judged by rules
based on the observation of "hysteriques," and sometimes apparently
in the form that hypnotism appears" chez les seuls n~vropathes." The
evidence he adduces in proof of this is worth examining aa a bad case
of scientific prejudice. On p. 57 he quotes from Dr. Li~ult's first
work (p. 344), in order to confute the Nancy school out of its master's
mouth. Dr. LieOOault says first that the bilious-nervous tempera-
1See Soci~t~ de Biologu, 7 JaB., 1882, p. 5; and id. M~moiru 0/1885, p. 1iO.
Abo Revue del' HyprwtiBrM, No.6, p. 77.
Digitized by Coogle
Dr. Gilles de La TO'Urette, L'Hypnotitnne, J:c. 557
menta, then the nervous, then the nervous-lymphatic temperaments
furnish his best sleepers; that the disposition to put oneself in the
requisite" passivity of mind" is hereditary. Then he admits that
"people a.1I'ected with strabismus, quivering of eyeballs, or •tics con-
vulsifs', and vapourish women, hysterical and some epileptic people,
nervous sufferers, and sufferers from analmia, are usually disposed to
become somnambules." He adds to this list persons who dream and move
about in sleep. But the last part of the quotation from Dr. Liebeault
runs :-" Si 1'0n rencontre surtout des sujets aendormir parmi des
malades, ce n'est pas une raison pour croire que les etats de charme et
de somnambulisme sont morbides, comme on est porte aIe penser: nous
avons endormi des femmes et des hommes d'une constitution robuste et
qui n'avaient jamais ete souffrants, pour sinsi dire, des paysans
vigoureux ayant servi dans des corps d'elite et fait des campagnes
penibles sans qu'ils soient jamais entres dans un Mpital." Dr. de la
Tourette makes the astonishing comment: "On nous accordera sans
conteste que 1'0pinion de M. de Liebeault n'a rien de dejavoroole ala
these de la production de l'hypnotisme chez les seuls nevropathes, qui
est celIe que nous soutenons." If we pass over the calculation of M.
Bottey that 30 per cent. of absolutely healthy persons can be hypnotised,
which is quoted as also favourable to "la these," we come to a more
serious argument, quoted from M. Paul Janet (de I'Institut), who
urges that though healthy persons can be hypnotised, yet hysteria. is the
stem on which it is best to graft hypnotism, and presents it in its
fullest, purest, most classic form. M. Janet also criticises the paucity
of detail upon th& pa.thological history of the Nancy patients, and M.
Paul Magnin 1 asks in wonder how the feature so well-known in the
Sa.lpetriere, and the most important symptom in detecting fraud, namely,
the excitability of nerves and muscles otherwise than by auggestwn, can
have escaped M. Bernheim's notice. Possibly the answer to this
question is: "Just because there are so many non-hysterical patients
at Nancy. It may be true that M. Magnin has shown the presence of
surface and deep contractions in all three states of hysterical hypn.otism;
but if we cannot really argue from that to non-hysterical hypnotism, it
will be necessary definitely to prove hysteria. before the medical expert,
re-hypnotising, can point to the absence of muscular contraction as an
evidence of feigned hypnotism."
One more specimen of Dr. de la Tourette's incompleteness on this
point. On p. 442, he speaks of the public mesmerisers who fix on
anmmic "nevropathes" in their audience to begin upon. It is a pity
that he has never been a witness of Mme. Card's exhibitions at
1 Revue de l' Hypnoti8me, No.6, p. 177, in review of Dr. de 1a Tourette's
book.
Digitized by Coogle
558 Critical Notice8.
Oxford or Cambridge. It is well known that Hansen preferred robust
young students, ignorant of the existence of nerves,1 and tbat flighty
persons of weak concentrative power are bad subjects.
But many English readers will be asking, "Who would ever feign
hypnotism at all t How does the question come before the law, and
how do the scientific iBBues affect the law'" It will be most con-
venient to take the divisions of Dr. Ladame in the article mentioned
above. The first deals with the danger of the methods of hypnotising,
especially the violent ones practised in public shows. Dr. de la Tourette's
most valuable chapters deal with the "exploitation" of magnetism.
The prohibition of Donato in Italy, of Hansen in Germany, and of per-
formers at the English Universities, shows how practical the po int is.
Nothing could better play into the hands of the believers in the
" nevrose" than the deranging effect of public exhibitions undertaken
for commercial motives, and of private and blundering attempts by the
inexpert. The more practised and more gentle the manipulation is,
the leBB of Ilo " nevrose " is hypnotism, and the worId can read the COD-
feBBions of Dr. Liebea.ult (RfJ'I.,'tUJ, NoB. 4 and 5), who has hypnotised
thousands, and learn how slight have been his errors, and how largely
they vanished the more he employed gentle suggestion.
The next division of Ladame deals with unlawful acts committed
spontaneously by natural somnambulists, and the sensible conclusion
of Dr. Gilles de 180 Tourette is that they should be acquitted, but also
watched, as irresponsible, since they recollect their act, if at all, only
as a dream. A more complicated difficulty arises with persons afIlicted
with an "etat second." Are they accountable in one state for what
they do in another 1 Hysteria must not be reckoned to destroy
responsibility, or its slightest symptom would be' an excuse; but it
would be hard to punish a person during one ltat for the misdoings of
his other personality, and the utmost that can be laid at the door of
the patient is a limited responsibility dwring the same se<:tion of
his life. The case of Dr. Dufay, who by inducing artificial somnam-
bulism found where an article had been hid in natural somnambulism,
suggests the grave question of what may be termed judicial re-
hypnotising. By this is meant an effort to reproduce by new hypnotism
the memories of old hypnotism, in order to examine the chances of
the subject having been an irresponsible instrument of crime. But before
discuBBing this a word is due on Dr. Ladame's third division, which deals
with crimes committed on hypnotised persons. Dr. de 180 Tourette has
many hints of value on this head, but they are too frequently based
on the assumption of a hysterica.l constitution in every possible
1 Fischer, Da Sogenannte Leben8-MagnetiamWi (Mainz, 1883), p. 82; and
!lee Mr. E. Hurney's letter to the Medical Timu of Oct. 27, 1883.
Digitized by Coogle
Dr. GiUes de la Towrette, L'Hyp'IWtisme, &c. 559
victim. The two questions then to be settled are first, how far was will
abolished; and, secondly, how far was consciousness abolished t As
to the first question, the doctor thinks that in lethargy there is
certainly no power of resistance, the victim being a mere" pd.te molle,"
and that in somnambulism there is more, as certain subjects are
incapable of suggestion in that state. Consequently if a subject be
re-hypnotised by the medico-legal expert, and found incapable hoth
of lethargy and of suggestion in somnambulism, the case will not
come under this class. As to the question of consciousness, on which
the power of giving evidence depends, he thinks that if the crime
was committed in lethargy, there is no memory at all; if in "lethargie
lucide," that there is memory on waking; and if in somnam-
bulism, that there is memory in the corresponding state of re-hypno-
tisation. But while he recognises the fickleness of such evidence,
I do not find him laying down the obvious canon that it never
ought to tell against anybody without independent corroboration.
Now the doctor's restricted and pathological view of hypnotism
matters in this connection the less, that probably in most /UJalthy
subjects there would be a very large power of resistance, at any
rate during the "alert" stage, and probably well on into the deep
stage, to any improper suggestion or attempt: while in a hysterical
person there would be a smaller fund of instinctive moral resistance
both in hypnotism and out of it. Therefore we may accept the Doctor's
rules on this head provisionally,-always bearing in mind his radical
assumption,--a.nd cheerfully subscribe to his proposal to protect
"l'inconscient" from outrage by the code of France, just as it is protected
by the codes of Belgium, Germany, and Spain. Before gratefully leaving
this section, I may remark how irresistibly the" Castellan case," quoted
by so many authors, strikes one as having a fine incrustation of myth.
Too long to cite, it is so much in danger of becoming classic that I
may notice the unjudicial, the professionally literary style, in which
it is always presented, and the strange trust accorded to the
detailed evidence of all the witnesses, who refrained without apparent
motive from interfering with what they make out as a weird and
dreadful outrage.
On the next head Dr. de 180 Tourette is decidedly too roseate in his
assurances, and Mr. Myers is perhaps too easily comforted. Dr. Liegeois
took pains to show that persons can be made, under the influence of sug-
gestion, to commit, both during or after hypnotism, crimes, to forget both
who the suggester was and their own act, and even sincerely to throw
suspicion on some third person. Dr. de la Tourette dismisses all these
experiments as "purely of the ls.boratory," and points to the ma.nifold
chances of 'frustration in real life through some slip in the programme
enjoined by the hypnotiser, or through the subject mana.gin~to resist,
Digitized by ~oo8le
. 560 Critical Notices.
evade, or disclose the injunction. In Jean J[M'f&(JIJ, M. Claretie's
inadequate and crudely wrought story (said to have been transcribed
from a laboratory experiment), the subject commits theft and murder
at the suggestion of her guilty lover, and will not reveal his name
to justice until re-hypnotised and made to re-live the experience,
somewhat like the somnambulist in Tl~ J[00'n8~. It is not clear
whether the suggestion is executed in or after the hypnotic state, and
(as far &8 my memory goes) the process of extracting the na.me is not
described. Again the comment occurs, that no man should be con-
sidered guilty when thus denounced without almost &8 strong indt'-
pendent evidence &8 would be needed if he had not been thus denounced
at all. It would be quite easy for the guilty hypnotiser to have foreseen
this procedure, and to have instilled a suggestion to denounce an
innocpnt person in case of justice adopting it. Theoretically, indeed,
there is no limit to the duel fought between justice and the criminal in
the soul of the unwitting accomplice, but practically justice having the
last word would imperil the criminal considerably. One point to settle
would be the extent to which subsequent counter-suggestion by justice
could annul a forgetfulness suggested by the criminal. How little the
rules for hysterical hypnotism might hold in such a case, may be seen
from the account of Professor Liegeois'demonstrations at the Congress
of the " Association Fran<;&ise" at N&Dey, on August 18th, 1886. "1\1.
Liegeois propose, pour donner une confirmation de ce qu'il a avance sur
1& possibilite de faire, pendant Ie somnambulisme, des suggestions qui se
realiseront flLtalement au reveil, d'hypnotiser en presence des membres
de 10. section plusieurs hommes, non It'!lllteNques, qu'il a a.menea. A runde
ses sujets plonge dans l'etat de somnambulisme, il suggere l'accom-
plissement de divers acws que celui-~i doit executer en certain laps de
temps apres son reveil. L'injonction est irresi8tible7Mnt accomplie." 1
Therefore, at least with some French temperaments, even if hysteria
is absent, the risk of suggested crime is quite serious. One point
important to clear up a.nd not named by the doctor is the limits of
moral resistance in the person for whom "suggestion" is pleaded.
Most healthy subjects draw the line fairly on the right side of impro-
priety or misdoing, but we do not know how far this resistance could
be ordered down by the hypnotiser insisting. Probably it would
re!luire much less force to make such a subject sign a receipt than
commit a. misdemeanour. But in the hysterical subject it might be
hard to distinguish between suggestion commonly called hypnotic and
the ordino.ry suggestion of the real principal and stronger spirit in a
crime to his loyo.l tool. And if any person, hysterical or not, aftt'r
re-hypnotisation, should be pronounced to have irresponsibly committed
I ReVile, No.3, p. 82 (italics mine throughC)11t). I
Digitized by ~008 e
Dr. Gilles de la Towrette, L'Hypnotisme, tl:c. 561
a crime, they should of course suffer all the restrictions of the
irresponsible.
As precautions against risking such a fate, Professor Liegeois recom-
mends everyone to refuse to be hypnotised except by a trustworthy
friend. Mr. Myers quotes the further precaution of the friend suggesting
to the-subject-" You will not be able to be hypnotised by anyone else."
Of course, the criminal on his side might suggest this too: but the
experiments I have read do not decisively show that this injunction
cannot be ordered down in both cases. Professor Beaunis 1 goes so far as
to say that no suggestion should be offered without the previous waking
consent of the pa.tient.
Another question justice might have to face is, " Could this person
have been hypnotised for the first time against his will 1" The doctor
suggests that by a ruse he might. Now the methods for turning common
into hypnotic sleep bear on the point, and are discussed by the German
writers, with whose researches (with the exception of Heidenhain's)
Dr. de 180 Tourette betrays no acquaintance. Rumpf,2 Malten 8 (quoting
Gscheidlen), and Borner,' agree that this is feasible, and Gscheidlen,
by putting his hand on the heads of five workmen sleeping normally,
developed hypnotic symptoms. Borner says, curiously, that if
consciousnesa persists after the passage into abnormal sleep, the sleeper
wakes, when let alone, from normal into hypnotic sleep; but if conscious-
ness has not persisted, wakes into normal life. It is right to add that
at the Breslau debate, cited by Malten, it WIloS suggested that putting the
hand on the head merely produced insensibility by deepening the
common sleep. The point is not settled, but it is evident how it might
arise in the judicial inquiry whether a person could have unwittingly
been made irresponsible.
Lastly, it should be remembered that throughout Dr. de 180Tourette
refuses to admit any evidence either for a special mesmeric influence, or
for mental suggestion, or for any form of experimental thought-trans-
ference. He never faces-yet can hardly not have heard of-the
evidence to be found in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical
Research, especially that of the Havre case, which also appears in La.
Suggestion Mentale, by Dr. Ochorowicz. Yet, if true, tBa.t evidence
transforms the whole medico-legal theory of hypnotism. Till it is
more definitely established, it would not be much use to try to work
out the practical consequences before the law. Nevertheless, Dr.
Gilles de 180 Tourette owes more respect to the evidence than he
gives. O. ELTON.
1 Le Somnambulisme Provoqm, p. 39.
s Delttsche Moo. Woche1Ulchrift, 1880, p. 280.
I Der Magnetiache Smlaf (Berlin, 1880), p. 19.
4 Deutsche Moo. Woche1Ulchrift, 1880, p. 94. /
Digitized by Coogle
562 Critical Notices.
De la Suggestion Mentak, par Ie Dr. J. OcROBOWICZ, ex-Profi'SSeUr
Agrege de Psychologie et de la Philosophie de la Nature a
I'Universite de Lemberg. Preface de M. CHARLa RICBET.
Paris: Octave Dom, 1887.
We welcome this book as the first serious attempt made, out of
England, to present and arrange a considerable m&88 of evidence for
the phenomena of thought-transference. It is disappointing, however,
to find that M. Ochorowicz has so few experiments of his own to
record. Of the 540 pages of which this book consists, nearly 300 art'
occupied with excerpts from the already published experiments of other
investigators, from Puysegur and Deleuze down to M. Liebeault and
the Society for Psychical Research. And of the remainder of the book
the greater part is devoted to a discussion of rival hypotheses, a.nd to
the dissection of inconclusive experiments. But his industry and
perseverance appear to be in no way to blame for this somewhat meagre
result. He has been investigating the phenomena of hypnotism and
its allied states for many years, and has always had in view the
possibility of t.he supersensory communication alleged to have been
observed by other workers in the same field. Under the headings
"De la Suggestion Mentale Apparente" and "De la Suggestion
Mentale Probable," he gives the results of his earlier researches
in this direction. These two chapters are perhaps the most interesting
in the book. They prove not merely that M. Ochorowicz is a
painstaking and indefatigable experimenter, but that he is ingenious
and subtle to a high degree in ana.lysing the causes of miraculous-
seeming manifestations. Too subtle, perhaps, on occasion. It is
difficult, for instance, to believe, if the experiment is accurately
recorded, that his explanation is entirely adequate in the following
case. M. Ochorowicz took up a novel by Kraszewski, Le Jlonde et Ie
Poete, opened it at random out of ~ight of the subject, and requested
him to read it. He could, at first, see nothing. M. Ochorowicz then
prompted him with the first two or tlwes tJXYtV/.8 of the page, and the
young man at once named correctly the cbapter and volume, and
recited the entire page, almost without a mistake. When M.
Ochorowicz put down the book, the subject stopped his recitation; but
he would go on, on a fresh page, if prompted, 80 long as M. Ochorowicz
kept his eyes on the text.
Voici l'explication du mystllre :
Le jeune homme en question a lu derniilrement, "deux lois de suite,"le
roman mentionnlS de Kraazewski; ill'avait lu, comme on Ie liaait dana Ie
temps en Pologne, surtout al'ige de six-Bept ana. n Ie aavait preaque par
C<l!ur. Evidemment il ne aaurait pu Nciter, a1'IStat de veille, des pages
Digitized by Coogle
Dr. J. OclwrouMz, De la, Suggestion Mentale. 563
entiilrea textuellement, mais, en aomme, notre experience n'a prouve qu'une
seule chose: une ,. vivacite etonnante des aouvenira en aonnambuliame.n Et
quant lI. l'in1luence de ma pensae, 1& cause en etait bien aimple: il 'IJ01Jait
mieux quand je regardaia dana Ie Iivre, parce que machinalement jecorrigeaia
sea petitea erreura. Ce aunt mAme cea erreura-llI. qui m'ont auggere l'expIica-
tion vraie de l'experience; car, au lieu de lire mal un mot ecrit, il Ie
remplaqait par un autre, analogue comme sena, maia tout-lI.-fait different
comme forme. Ayant ete entraine en dehora des aaaociationa exactea, par
une erreur semblable, il a'a~tait ai je fermais Ie livre, parce que je ne
pouvaia plus lui venir en aide.
Moreover, it appeared aubsequently that the young man could
"read," though less correctly, even when the book was closed. No
doubt M. Ochorowicz is right in. refusing to regard this as even a proof
presumptive of thought-transference: though, to those who admit
thought-transference as a fact in nature, it might not appear out of the
question that the memory of the subject to some extent should be
revivified and supplemented by that agency. But the simpler and more
probable explanation of the "subject's" failure to read when the book
was closed appears to me to be that his capacity for "reading"
depended upon his belief that he was reading through the eyes of the
operator. To accept his own explanation would argue a want of care
on the part of M. Ochorowicz of which, on the evidence supplied by
this book, he may reasonably be acquitted.
Elsewhere, however, his comments are eminently just. Here, for
instance, is an account of an experiment conducted by himself in
waking a hypnotised subject by mental suggestion. The experiment
succeeded perfectly on the first trial; the subject awoke as soon as the
mental command was formulated. An equal measure of auccess
attended his subsequent experiments of the same kind; but he found
himself unable to compel the subject to execute his commands when he
willed that she should perform certain movements. Why, then, he
asks, did she obey my commands in the one case and remain insensitive
in the other 1
En voici 180 raison; il y avait 1& deux habitudes, qui avaient paaae
inaperquea. Continuant Ie traitement depuia plusieura semainea, j'avaia pria
l'habitude de 1& reveiller juate une demi-heure aprea 180 declaration du
BOmmeil; je ne regardaia pas la montre, mais je venaia toujoura lI. l'heure
fixe, et: comma c'etait une heure avant Ie eitner, mon eatomac remplaqait
parfaitement ma montre.
Quant lI. 180 malade, elle a pria egalement l'habitudll de se reveiller presque
exactement lI. 180 minute-phenomilne bien connu dea hypnotiaeura. Cela
n'arrive pas toujoura, maia cela arrive tree aouvent.
He then verifies this hypothesis by ascertaining that he could not
awaken the subject by mental command, 10,15, or 20 minutes after the
commencement of the sleep, and that she invariably awoke of her
Digitized by Coogle
564 OritWal lorotices.
own accord after a sleep of 30 to 35 minutes' duration. After
considering this and other limilar experiences, he makes the suggestive
remark: "II Y a toujours deux questions A eIucider. La question,
Comment Ie sujet a-t-il pu deviner III. pensae 1 n'est que III. seconde:
tandis que III. premiere consiste asavoir: Comment l'experimentateur
est arrive a choisir une pensea plutOt qu'une autre t" (p. 1i.) He
appli~s this canon to the noteworthy series of experiments with
Madame D. The subject was in a nomlal state, with her back turned
towards the two experimenters, who were in contact (the exact nature
of the contact is not staW) with her throughout the experiment.,
although out of her sight. Under these conditions the names of cards,
imaginary colours and tastes, objects in the room, &c., were correctly
named in a considerable proportion of the trials. (A full record of
theRe experiments WR.8 sent to us by M. Ochorowicz in the spring of
last YMr, ami will be found quoted in Phantasm8 of the Lit;ng, V01. II.,
pp. 661-4.) M. Ochorowicz hesitates to regard these experiments
as conclusive. He thinks them to a certain extent invalidaW by the
circllmstanct's of ""hat he calls "Ie milieu psychique." All the objects
thought of (t'XCllpt the cards, which wel"e drawn at random from a full
pack) were chosen at the time by one or other of the experimenters.
The laws of the R.88OCiation of idea.'I, he explains, are very obscure:
the links of connection are frequently automatic and unconscious, and
spring from the sensation of the moment. A conjurer takes advantage
of this fact to force upon his audience the choice which he wishes them
to make, by creating, so to speak, the appropriate psychical environ-
ment. But in the experiments described, the psychical environment
WR.8 rt'MY made; the mental furniture of the three persons present
must have heen to a great extent common; and it is probable, there-
forll, unless special precautions were taken to prevent it (e.g., by
selt'cting the tests before the commencement of the experiments), that
the trains of association leading them to think of one ohject rather
than another would also be common in many cases to both operators
and subject. The experimenters themselvfl8, who can alone know the
principles, if any, which guided their selection of the objects thought
of, can best judge how far the force of this series of experiments is
rt>.ally impaired hy these considerations. A more serious evidential
deft'ct-R.8 Mr. Gurney hR.8 already pointed out-is that in many
cast's the object chosen WR.8 actually in the room, and that it is not·
stat.l·d what precautions were taken to prevent the attention of the
"suhject" from heing directed to it by normal means.
It is only within the last 15 months that M. Ochorowicz has
succeeded in obtaining conclusive proof of the possibility of super-
sensuous communication. M. Richet's results_n account of which was
puhlished in the Re1J'lU Phil080phiqu,e in December, 1884--appear to
izedbyGoogle
Dr. J. Oc1wrowi,cz, De la, Suggestion Mentale. 565
have given him the first impetus towards definite experiment. As,
however, immediately after describing M. Richet's experiment&, he
goes on to preface a recital of his own preliminary attempts with
the words, "J'entrepris une serie d'experiences dans Ie but de verifier
celles qui ont ete faites par la Society 1()If' Psychical Researches,"
we may infer that he became acquainted with the work of the preceding
few years in England at about the same period. The experiments
of Messrs. Gibert and Pierre Janet, in inducing sleep by mental
suggestion at a distance, were the first undoubted proofs which he.
received. These experiments have been fully described by Mr. F. W.
H. Myers (who was present with Dr. A. T. Myers throughout M.
Ochorowicz's visit to Havre) in the Proceeding" Part X., pp. 127 ee ,eq.,
and need not be further dwelt on here.
M.Ochorowicz returned from Havre eager to follow up the clue
which had been given him; and he did, in fact, succeed in impressing
commands upon certain hypnotised subjects by mental suggestion.
The actions prescribed were, however, as a rule of a comparatively
simple kind; and the operator was, in many cases, in actual contact
with the subject, or at least was in her immediate vicinity. It is
difficult, therefore, without a much fuller description of the precautions
taken, to feel confident that no hint of the act to be performed could
have been derived from &e8tures or other indications of a normal kind.
The following spontaneous experience seems to be free from any
objection on this score, though standing alone it cannot have much
weight, as lucky guessing would be a quite possible explanation.
After describing two or three observations on a subject whom he was
hypnotising therapeutically, and who seemed to be occasionally aware
in the hypnotic sleep of the operator's mental state, M. Ochorowicz
proceeds to relate the following experience :-
J'arrive ehez Mlle. S.
.. Qu'avez-voUB fait bier lOir a 11 heurea 1" me demande·t-.lle
t2: ain-upto.
Devinant une excentrieiU IOmnambulique quelconque, je lui dia :-
"Ah, non I VOUB me raconterez d'ahord ce que VOUB aavez, et puis moi
je VOUB dirai iii e'.st exact."
"Soit. Vous avez ecrit toute la lOinSe ;ee n'etait pas des lettres, car j'ai
vu de grandes feuilles ; vous n'avez lu aueun livre, mais vous ecriviez tout Ie
temps; puis a 11 heureB VOUB VOUB ates coueM, mm vous n'avez pas pu
dormir et VOUB lites leve encore une fois, et VOUB VOUB promeniez dana la
cbambre, en fumant une cigarette. . . . ."
lei une pel'8ODDe qui etait a caM de Mlle. S. bier lOir, aflirme qu'apn.
s'lltre coueMe ene ne faiaait que rep6ter tout Ie temps :-
.. Ah! mon Dieu, quand est-ce qu'U va dormir enfin . • . . il.
m'emp&ehe de me reposer.. "
Je ne dis rien, et HIle. S. continue IOn recit:-
Digitized by Go~~le
566 Oritical Hotm.
.. Puis enfin, ven une heure, v.us vous lItea endormi et vous VOWI et.
nveille juste ;. 7 heurea du matin. Eet-ce vra.i 1"
Tout cela etait ex&et, auf "un retard constant" de pluaieura minutes
dana lee heurea. Ceat-a-dire qu'elle me voyait 8crire encore;' 11 heUftlll,
tandis que je me luis leve , lOh_45 ;. peu pfta, etc.
The acantineaa of our author's positive results is probably to be
explained, in part, by the fact of his having hitherto almost
exclusively confined his experiments to persons actually in the
hypnotic trance. As he himself points out, the precise stage at which
the hypnotised subject is most amenable to mental suggestion is in the
brief period of transition between two well·marked phases of the trance
-the deep lethargic sleep (~tat ald~ique), in which the subject is
incapable of originating speech or motion of any kind, and the lucid
somnambulic state (~~t polyideique), in which the activity of his own
mind overpowers the comparatively feeble suggestions received from
without. In our own experiments in thought-transference with
hypnotised subjects, we found great difficulty in preventing the
percipient from relapsing in the middle of the experiment into a deep
speechleaa slumber, from which no hint of mental suggestion could be
extracted. If the waking state is not always so favourable to the
reception of telepathic suggestions, the conditions are, at any rate,
more stable and of longer duration. Now, not only does M.
Ochorowicz seem rarely to have experimented with persons in the
normal state, but it b.as not even occurred to him to try with persons
who have not beeen proved to be readily susceptible of hypnotisation.
If the truth must be told, his parental partiality for that rather
dubious little toy, the hypnoscope, seemB to have been somewhat of a
snare to him; for indirectly it has led on to a partiality, which the
results in no way justify, for the particular class of sensitives that his
talisman l..veals to him. And whilst he has thus neglected a wide
field of experiment, he has been led into what seems to be an over
hasty generalisation. For he lays it down more than once as an
undoubted canon that, for mental luggestion to be effective, a special
'I'appO'f't is neceaaary between the operator and subject. We know so
little of the conditions under which such transference of ideas takes
place that we cannot deny that there may be a sense in which this is
true; but apparently M. Ochorowicz connotes by the word rapporC
some previously established and cognisable bond between the two
parties; and in that case his &8Bertion is certainly misleading, as he
would have been willing to admit if he had been present at some of the
experiments conducted at Dean'a-yard, or with Mr. Guthrie's percipients
at Liverpool and elsewhere. It has happened on more than one occasion
that a complete stranger to the percipient has met with startling and
immediate success, where failure has rewarded the efforts of the rest
Digitized by Coogle
Dr. J. Ochorowicz, De la, Suggestion Mentale, 567
of the investigators. Nor do the records of spontaneous telepathy
8upport so sweeping a generalisation. Out of 830 cases recorded in
PhantaBmB ofthe Living we find that in 36 the action took place between
strangers; the only traceable rapport being the fact of the two
persons having a common friend, or such common associations as may
be presumed to exist between inhabitants of the same town.
Ofthe second section of the work it is not necessary to say nluch. It
consists of copious citations from the works of the earlier French investi-
gators, and of such later writers as Professor Beaunis and Dr. Liebeault,
designed to illustrate various phases of the subject.
The last 100 pages of the book are devoted to a discussion of the
various hypotheses which have been put forward from time to time to
account for the phenomena. When M. Cousin asked Hegel for a
8uccinct statement of his views, the German philosopher is said to have
replied, "Ces choses-ci ne se disent ni succinctement, ni en fran~"
We may doubt, in turn, whether it would be possible to compress
within a few pages of intelligible English the gist of these rival
theories, and whether the result, if attained, would be commensurate
with the labour. One comment, on the hypothesis of a universal
fluid which serves as the intermediary of the brain-waves, is, perhaps,
'Worth quoting :-
M. Deapine attribue II. l'ather 1& chaleur, 1& lumillre, l'electriciU, Ie
magnatisme terrestre, 1& gravitation, l'attraction moIeculaire, lea aftinite.
chemiques, les fonctions de 1& vie organique, callea de l'automatisme, et enfin
celIe du carveau. Je crois qu'il ne reste plus grand chose II. distribuer. Si,
reate 1& Providence! (p. 483.)
Our author's own theory depends upon the supposition that electrical
and nervous energy are to a certain extent reciprocally convertible.
He illustrates his view by the analogy of the photophone-an
instrument in which a mirror is made to vibrate to the human voice.
The mirror reflects a ray of light, which, vibrating in its tum, falls.
upon a plate of selenium, modifying its electric conductivity. The
intermittent current so produced is transmitted through a telephone
-and the original articulate sound is reproduced. Now in hypnotised
subjects--a.nd M. Ochorowicz never treats of thought-transference
between persons in the normal state-the equilibrium of the nervous
system, he sees reason to believe, is profoundly affected. He supposes
then that the electric currents of the atmosphere are modified by the
nervous energy of the agent; that the disturbance so produced is
transmitted to the nervous system of the percipient, already in a state
of tension, and there reproduces a corresponding modification of the
nerve-elements.
In the present state of our knowledge, it would be premature to
discuss the theory here very briefly and inadequately ~marised.
Digitized by ~qpgle
568 Critical Notices.
But it may be worth while to point out that our own conception of
telepathy involves, strictly speaking, no theory at all. It involves as
little of pure theory as Newton's conception of the law of gravitation.
What Newton did was to find the simplest general expression for the
O_"ed facts by saying that the heavenly bodies acted upon each
other with a certain measurable force. He did not attempt to explain
the mode of the action; he contented himself with asserting its
existence, and defining its limits. And whilst succeeding astronomers
have for the most part been content to follow his example, the Science
has nevertheless advanced in a steady and continuous progression.
So the conception of telepathy simply colligates the observed facts
of spontaneous and experimental thought-transference, as instances
of the action of one mind upon another. The nature of that action the
theory does not discuss: it merely defines it negatively, as being
outside the normal sensory channels. Nor is there any reason to
suppose that the further advancement of the subject at the present
time is dependent on the discovery of physical correlates for the alleged
paychical action.
In conclusion, it must be said that the zeal and industry shown by
M.Ochorowicz are deserving of a fuller measure of success: and I have
little doubt that he will meet with it. In some departments of
psychical research, at any rate, he would appear to have no lack of
material, if his estimate is correct, that 30 per cent. of his fellow-
countrymen are easily susceptible of hypnotisation.
FRANK PODKOU.
Digitized by Coogle
