{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sharlene_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Sharlene B NDE 888","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sharlene B NDE 888  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sharlene B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						360  Sharlene B NDE  888  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I retired to bed with my partner (now husband). I can't recall how long I had been asleep. But my husband reads in bed, usually for about an hour, and I remember vividly that he was still reading.


I was lying on my back when all of a sudden I had such excruciating chest pain. I remember thinking that it was so bad that I thought that I was having a heart attack. I tried to hit my husband with my left arm to get his attention but I was totally paralyzed.


Next thing I knew I was floating above my bed looking down at my husband and myself. I could still see him reading and I appeared to be asleep.


The pain remained excruciating but suddenly I didn't feel afraid. My surroundings were pink.  All of a sudden, I heard my mother's voice behind me (I never saw her - she passed away in March 1992). She told me that it wasn't my time yet and that I was to go back for my sons.


I was back in my body and I could still feel the lasting effects of the pain that I had experienced in my chest. My heart rate was two hundred and thirty beats per minute and it was pounding. I told my husband about what had happened and he told me that I never moved or made a sound the whole time I had this 'experience'. I can't put a time frame on the episode but once again my husband was still reading so to me it must have been very quick.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1993

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     HAD A TREMENDOUS FEELING OF DOOM IN MY SLEEP. RACING HEARTRATE 230 BPM   GRIEVING PROCESS

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like I knew that I was above my physical self (but I didn't see myself at all floating) it was just something that I knew was happening to me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was asleep but I was so aware of everything that was happening at the time including the pain.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The time frame was hard to gauge but I used my husband as the marker of time and the fact that he was still reading.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard my mother's voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was all around me. My mother's favorite color is pink and that was the color I saw. What really stayed with me was how brilliant the color was. It felt strong and warm, I felt safe there.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the brilliance with the light.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The purpose was to be there for and with my boys who didn't actually live with me at the time. They did later on as the experience helped me to realize what the important things in life are.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I kept the strong feeling of being around for my family.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I listened to my mum even though I didn't want to leave her.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have become far more sensitive to people's needs and have a real caring attitude and a want to help.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   The experience was strong and extremely detailed.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have since had several other experiences like smells and noises relating to past lives that were unknown to me.  I have also had psychic readings and have been told to channel or learn to use my own psychic ability.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was hearing my mum's voice the worst was being told to go back as I didn't want to leave her.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Belief and disbelief. People are genuinely interested but I don't think that it's influenced anyone in any particular way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sharlene_b_nde.html