{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shari_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Shari R NDE 3286","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shari R NDE 3286  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shari R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1164  Shari R NDE  3286  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The pain intensified from mild to severe in less than an hour. Soon, I was on the floor in a cold sweat, the pain all-consuming as I was rapidly losing consciousness. My roommate had called paramedics and I knew they were on their way. Only I wished they would hurry. Then the pain worsened, cold, the weakness and shock, I felt I was slipping. They finally came; I saw them for an instant and was out cold.

Outside, it was warm, so warm and beautiful. I was walking with three others along a river bank. I could hear the rushing water and see the glimmer of light upon the stones as the water trickled over and around them. Brilliant light shined through the leaves of the trees, creating shadows and warm spots on my face as I continued along the bank with the others. We were laughing heartedly; I was using a walking stick. Some leaves of a branch from a tree brushed my face and I gently moved it aside. I remember a smile upon my face, the strength I felt, pure joy, completely weightlessness and free from pain. I had this humorous thought, 'Ha! I wonder what the paramedics think of the grin on my face as I'm lying on the floor unconscious!' The thought made me chuckle. I turned to my companions (who were more like beings of light and shadow - not of this mortal world) and smiled. I could feel the pebbles beneath my feet as I continued. They were taking me somewhere...

Cold, the weight of returning to my body, excruciating pain. A light beam penetrated my eyes. A male voice, hollow at first, bellowed 'Okay, stay with us now,' and so I was back. My time at the river was infinite even though it all took place in a matter of ten seconds or so. As I re-entered my body I noticed my face was far from grinning. Needles, jabs, tubes water, pain, so like torture. I wanted to go back to the river.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    April 22, 2005

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Illness  'Ruptured cyst-severe pain, loss of consciousness, little to no pulse or oxygen'  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' .


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was truly removed from the binding of skin, cells, and flesh. I was free spirit, whole and enlightened, walking along the river.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to slow down.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    My vision was more intense, colors more vivid and sharp. Shapes were extremely defined, like each blade of grass, tree leaf, outline of a pebble.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Hearing became acute.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I felt like I was pulled lightly into another realm.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Three others. Nameless, but on a mission. Of light and shadow. Peaceful and knowledgeable.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   First there was brilliance, an overwhelming warm light sensation.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     brilliant nature alongside a river

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Joy, pure joy, love, happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain     I can't explain.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The difference between spirit enlightenment and the mortal world and the unnecessary suffering.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Difficult to describe this profound knowledge and understanding, warmth and peace when there is nothing of comparison here on earth.

(It may exist, but modern civilization has thwarted it).

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       A gift of awareness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    As I was recovering, I could not wait to tell this to friends who wouldn't shun me for it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I did have a drug overdose when I was younger. My heart stopped and I was pulled through a tunnel, towards a light - but that was all I remember.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     That it was a truth I never could have imagined.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It was real. I have never felt something so real. The branch against my face was as real as if I were brushing away a branch today.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was profound and unless it happens to you, you can never truly understand.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      None thanks for the opportunity!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shari_r_nde.html