{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shar_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Shar B Probable NDE 6681","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shar B Probable NDE 6681  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shar B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3323 Shar B Probable NDE 6681  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember waking up absolutely furious that I was still alive, yet very appreciative of the beautiful day outside.  Over the next few months, the experience came back in bits and pieces. The tunnel, the light, the being that told me that this was not the first time I had opted out of this lifetime.  Twice before I had come to learn the lessons I had chosen, but ran from them in suicide.  I was told that they would accept me with love, but if I was smart I would go back and learn those lessons!  I chose to come back, I guess.  I'm here forty three years later.  I have had two out-of-body experiences besides the near death experience, neither life-threatening.  One as a child while being abused by an entire school in Switzerland.  I was looking down at the abuse and wondering whom the poor soul was that was undergoing such torture.  The other was a gift of the experience of the love on the other side.  No words.  I remember I ran from this incredible love because I didn't feel I deserved it. Part of the lesson I came back to learn? How to love myself.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I took lots of pills and alcohol.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As the experiences came back, the pieces were quite clear but my depression made them hard to bear.  So much personal responsibility was involved and I felt I wasn't up to it.  I didn't then understand.  The ‘love’ experience came in 1986, many years later.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the being was telling me of my past lives.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no 'time.'

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think suicides are a little different than the average near death experience.  Things were cloudy and not very clear as I was fighting more battles than I can count, including dying and coming back.  Talk about confusions.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The conversation was quite clear.  I remember feeling quite surprised about the past-life explanation, but recognizing it as truth.  If there was love there, I must have rejected it as not feeling worthy as I don't remember it.  That may be why I was given the gift at a later date.  It was just before I had both a spontaneous abortion and then had to go take care of my dying mother at home (cancer).

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Well, it was certainly bright.  The being that I spoke to was part of the light, but distinct.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I just went home.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I remember I felt safe. Perhaps for the first time in my life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I think they knew I would go back.  There wasn't an actual boundary, but I know this was as far as I was going.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   I have always known from birth that I was being watched over and protected which is why my Father (Mormon) and Mother (Science of Mind) had no effect on me, as far as passing on their beliefs. As a child, if it didn't make sense, I objected to it on the bounds that the Universe makes ultimate sense.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   I find all organized religions to be unfaithful to truth (altho' those who practice are where they are supposed to be).  "Religion" is a personal thing and as individual as fingerprints or DNA and cannot be found in following the teachings of just one person or persons.  In the 43 years of my search, I have read, heard, spoken to, and felt so many different openings that my truth is mine;  I have found very few who are even close.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I remember that I was very aware of the truth of what was going on and none of it surprised me.  When the only friends you have ever had were on the other side, nothing truly surprises you.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was told of my opting out of this lifetime lesson(s) twice and to go back and finish the job.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Again, I have always known I wasn't alone, at least not out there.  Here is another story....

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Not specific, no.  Just that I had work to do.  Other than learning to love myself (the most difficult thing in the Universe) I still have no idea.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I have always known I wasn't alone, so I wasn't surprised at the experience.  I just remember how angry I was when I woke up, that I still had to be here in the earth-suit.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     I remember a sense of confusion/rejection of the responsibility.  Again, I think suicides are a little different as to circumstances.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I don't remember any but I may have rejected it as totally unworthy of it.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Yes Trust has always been an issue with me.  I tend to opt out before they can hurt me so no one really gets that close.  I still am surprised at those who stick by me and am still waiting for the other shoe to drop.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   As the experience came back to me in pieces over several months, and I didn't want to deal with it at the time, I rejected the responsibility involved.  I had no trouble knowing that there was more to my renting the 'earth-suit.' It was the post-traumatic stress disorder (unknown at the time) and having to deal with just surviving.  It did eventually create a curiosity that started me on my journey.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   I was in such emotional pain that life was a blur.  Moment stick out, but mostly I wanted it to all go away.  I just wanted to go home.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My life has been all of a piece even though it has felt splintered at times.  In retrospect, it all flows together (with large gaps of stubbornness in between!)

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me years.  I had to put it all together first.  Then, because I never learned how to make friends, I was averse to letting others know what a nut I was.  I knew things they didn't which made me an out-caste.  Eventually I no longer cared what people thought so, when the subject came up, I told my story.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There is no death and I knew this, so wasn't surprised at the experience. Only at the message and not really surprised at that; just depressed!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew there was no death.  Over the years I've found that at birth I brought in an incredible gift; the knowledge that I have lived since the dawn of time and I will live into infinity.  I just rented the earth-suit for the duration of this lifetime for the lessons my soul needed to experience so it could grow.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's been a rough ride.  I look forward to death.  My recent fear is the manner of my going. I'm working on that fear!  I am rereading Anita Moorjani's book as she has many positive reinforcements that I want to work on.  Thank her for me.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain     Good questionnaire.  Lots of room to expand.  Thanks.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't think so.  Do you have a spot where I could add later if I come up with any?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shar_b_probable_nde.html