{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shari_g_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Shari G Possible NDE 4611","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shari G Possible NDE 4611  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shari G Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2331 Shari G Possible NDE 4611  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was undergoing surgery for removal of an ovary when I found 'myself' above the operating table sitting on a bar attached to the ceiling. I was aware of the people and the body on the operating table, but was not at all interested in what was going on. There was a 'being' next to me - I could not see this being, but was aware that it was there. I was blithely swinging on the bar, like I used to do as a kid on the monkey bars. The emotional feeling was one of complete freedom, contentment, and happiness - something which I will never forget as I tend to be somewhat of a tense person.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Other: Surgery  I was undergoing the first surgery of my life at the time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Hard to say, but it was DURING the surgery when the body (mine) below me was out.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was just aware of the light (from the lights over the operating table perhaps) and the people moving below me. I don't recall any specific colors other than white and the shiny gray like stainless steel.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall hearing ANYTHING at all - hearing didn't seem to be necessary.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not feel that I knew the being. It was just a feeling of a loving being which (who?) was next to me 'in spirit.'

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I always believed that the light was from the lights over the operating table.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Delight, happiness, playfulness. It was awesome.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Christian, but did not attend a church regularly'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I always BELIEVED there was a GOD; now I have a KNOWINGNESS that there is a God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Unity Church, but do not attend regularly'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I always BELIEVED there was a GOD; now I have a KNOWINGNESS that there is a God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of joy and happiness - lightness of spirit - I will NEVER forget that.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the experience with my husband shortly after the surgery. I've shared it with a few others who I feel share my spiritual beliefs.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience took away a lot of my fear of death as it made me realize that I am not my body. I've read that we're spiritual beings having a human experience and my out of body experience reinforces that as I FELT like a spiritual being rather than a person in a body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I view the experience as a privilege - a gift.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   During meditation about five years ago and prior to finding out of I had cancer, I got a 'message' - it was, 'All is as it should be.' I don't use words like that; I would have said instead, 'Everything's okay.' So I feel that the message was from a spiritual being - it is now my mantra when I'm worried about something.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that I feel that it did happen.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No - you have covered it pretty thoroughly.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shari_g_possible_nde.html