{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shannique_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Shannique S NDE 5021","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shannique S NDE 5021  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shannique S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2597 Shannique S NDE 5021  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had an ectopic pregnancy and my fallopian tube ruptured. I was bleeding internally. My body was going into shock. I bleed two liters of blood in my stomach, and was given around five blood transfusions. Two I know of for sure because they were given to me in the recovery room. The doctor said I was lucky because if we didn't come in when we did and the tube ruptured at the house I would have died there from hemorrhaging. It appears that my tube was leaking on Friday. That is what started the pain. When the doctor opened me up, she said I had old blood and huge blood clots that had settled under my stomach, and the new blood was settling on top of my stomach. The cut was a big cut because they had to get in quick. I have fifteen staples from one side to the other. They do not look like regular thin staples. They look like thick staples that would be used in carpentry. I'm assuming this is what a cesarean section must feel like. The doctor said when she opened me up they couldn't distinguish my organs because of so much blood, so they washed my insides.



The day I almost died ~ In American Samoa.

by Shannique S.

July 11, 2007 Wednesday



Hello my family and friends,

I shall share with you my story of July 8, 2007. Although this unknowingly started five weeks and two days ago, it brought me here to July 8th. A day I will never forget. So when July 8th of next year comes around, and the year after, I will forever remember the day I almost died.

Friday July 6th was a normal day for me, at least I thought. I went to work, called Yaya to wish him a 'Happy Seventeenth Birthday.' After work I went to softball practice. After practice, myself and two of the girls sat out there on the field and talked for a while. We got up to go and it was hard for me to stand up straight. Yet, I thought nothing of it. I drove to drop them off at a house they were going too. While driving my stomach began to hurt all over, my sides, up top, and down below. I get to the house and go straight to the room, falling on the bed. I was moaning in pain. I was doing those breathing techniques we learn while in labor. I tell Paki what was wrong. I took a muscle anti-inflammatory pill and fell asleep. Paki was thinking that maybe I pulled a stomach muscle at practice.

I wake up the next morning on Saturday July 7th, and get ready for work. The constant pain had subsided and my stomach only hurt when I pressed on it. I went to work. I would occasionally press my stomach on the counters edge to relieve some of the discomfort. I went home and everything was better than Friday night's episode.

Sunday, July 8th I go to church with Keona. She was five months to the day. No constant pain of any sort. In the evening, we all take a ride to the P.O. Box. I received a letter from my mom, June, and my cousin, Monday. I figured I would write them tonight and drop it in the mail before going into work tomorrow. Yet when we arrived home, I could hardly get out of the truck. The pain was like it was on Friday night after practice. My stomach looked bloated and awkward on top just below my rib cages. I was thinking that maybe I had a bladder infection or a urinary tract infection. Yet this time the pain had me in tears. We went to the hospital. We drove up to the emergency entrance it looked crowded, so instead of stopping I said, 'Let's go back home and I'll take some antibiotics and see how I feel tomorrow. So, we kept going, back to the house.

Once again, I am back on the bed, moaning. This time Paki says, 'Let's go back to the hospital.' We are on our way back. All the people who were there the first time seemed to have disappeared. We go in, and it is a small area. Paki had to go pay twenty dollars to get me a medical card. In the meantime, I was sitting in a chair and an emergency room nurse was taking down my complaint on why I was there. He asked all the normal questions, name, age, reason for coming, last period, etc. He asked do I think I could be pregnant, and my response was, 'No, I had a tubal ligation done March 28th.' While talking to him I felt really hot and light headed. I felt like I was going to pass out, so I laid my head on the desk while he went to get a wheelchair. There weren't any rooms available.

I was sitting in the hallway, which didn't seem long at all when a doctor, comes and ask what's wrong. I tell her the same thing, that my stomach is hurting. By now, Paki was back with me and they took me to a bed. While Paki and I are trying to guess what could be wrong the nurse brings a cup for urine. Paki helps me to the bathroom. I pee in the cup and we come back out handing it to the nurse. We go back to the bed I was assigned too. They are not rooms. They are beds next to each other separated by curtains. We were sitting there saying, 'what if ...' Before we could finish complete thoughts, the nurse was back, but this time she was not alone. She had a doctor, and the nurse says, 'Your pregnancy test came back positive.' NO WAY, it couldn't be possible. Was I that teeny tiny, less than one percent chance of a person that a tubal ligation didn't work for. 

So now, we are off to the ultrasound room. Low and behold, in my left fallopian tube was an embryo at five weeks, two days old. Yet I had a period June 13th, so how is it possible. To explain when pregnancy occurs, the embryo implants in the uterus. At that time, a hormone is released to stop menstruation. Well, since the embryo did not implant in my uterus, there was no releasing of the hormone to stop my periods. Yet since my tube was blocked, there was no way for the embryo to get out of the tube and implant for a normal pregnancy to began. So there we were, seeing the gestation sac and embryo on the screen.

The doctor wanted to wait a little later when I had a full bladder to make sure she was seeing the right location of the baby in the tube. She took different pictures. The plan was to redo the ultrasound later to confirm the location. However, when I sat up I told Paki, 'I feel like I'm gonna pass out.' And that's what happened. I passed out.

I remember being in what seemed like a tunnel filled by a bright, extremely bright, light. I was flying right by the sun but did not fill the heat.  The light given off by the sun is white, not yellow. The light is the color of a white full moon on a clear night. I was going really fast, flying like superman through this tunnel. There was a sense of comfort, and peace. I was not afraid at all. I did not feel fear, or the sense of missing anything. It was amazing as I sit and think about it. Then I heard little kids laughing which made me turn around and go the opposite way. That is when I thought I opened my eyes to Paki saying, 'It's going to be okay, just relax.' Yet he said my eyes were open the entire time. I've heard stories of people who have died, and white lights, and tunnels. Do I believe I died for those five minutes, I don't think so. I think the bright white light and tunnel are things that happen before you actually die. Although I didn't make it to the end of the tunnel to find this out because of the children's laughter, I do believe there is something more out there in a world that we only hear about. I was almost there.

Paki said the whole time I was passed out, my eyes were wide open and my pupils weren't dilated. I had loss of color in my face and was pale. The doctor had called some code and all these different people were in the ultrasound room taking me off that bed which couldn't move and putting me on a gurney. I kept going in and out, hearing people all around me. I was rushed into the operating room for emergency surgery. I remember being placed on a cold table, my arms being stretched out and strapped down. I can only hear around me, my eyes closed the whole time. Then I feel a mask on my face and someone say breathe. That's all I remember until trying to wake up afterwards. My throat sore from being incubated. I was convulsing from the effects of the anesthesia, attempting to vomit, but noting was coming out. Every jerk of my body made my incision hurt. My only desire was for all this to end.

What had happened during the visit in the ultrasound room is my fallopian tube ruptured and I was bleeding internally. My body was going in to shock. I bleed two liters of blood in my stomach, and was given around five blood transfusions. Two I know of for sure because they were given to me in the recovery room. The doctor said I was lucky because if we didn't come in when we did and the tube ruptured at the house I would have died there from hemorrhaging. It appears that my tube was leaking on Friday. That is what started the pain. When the doctor opened me up, she said I had old blood and huge blood clots that had settled under my stomach, and the new blood was settling on top of my stomach. The cut was a big cut because they had to get in quick. I have fifteen staples from one side to the other. They do not look like regular thin staples. They look like thick staples that would be used in carpentry. I'm assuming this is what a cesarean section must feel like. The doctor said when she opened me up they couldn't distinguish my organs because of so much blood, so they washed my insides.

Finally after recovering from the anesthesia is when it hit how serious this could have been. Paki said during the surgery he kept going back and forth to himself that if I died, how is he going to tell the kids or my family? We had just started our lives together. If I died would it be God's will, and how could he have faith if I died. He was in tears most of the night.  He still comes to tears when you talk about it or ask him how he felt. I'm not sure at which point he made phone calls, I just know I told him to call my mom and dad, call my sister's. I told him I know if we were in the states, they'd all be here, even Jilai. There are no phones in the rooms here, and the cell phones weren't getting any signals. During the surgery, Paki's parents were here, and so was his cousin Charlotte and her dad. Once I came out okay, they went home. I was so out of it, though. It still brings tears to my eyes thinking about it. Paki says that would have been our other daughter, so he named the embryo Heavyn.

When the boys came to visit, Mathyus asked me, 'Are you dying?' Paki said, 'What do you know about dying?' Then Mathyus starts crying, and saying, 'I love you mommy.' He was showing so much passion and emotion. I couldn't believe my three year old was feeling like that. Whereas Nikko was asking if they were going to Pizza Hut. Mathyus sat next to my head, rubbing his cheek on my face and kept kissing me. I couldn't help but cry and share in his emotions. Knowing how close my kids came to being without me. Paki said, 'That one is the one who is going to take care of you.' (Referring to Mathyus) He cried while leaving saying, 'I don't want to leave you.' He kept saying he loves me.

When I got out of surgery, I was in a room by myself. Although there were two beds and a curtain to separate the beds, I was alone. There is no phone or television, and the bathroom is down the hallway. I was moved to a room with two other people. I am in the maternity ward. There are three beds in this room, all separated by curtains. I am in the middle bed. There is a window on the far left wall, and the door is on the far right side. Most of the people over here have given birth, except the two in here had some type of surgery too. The lady to my left doesn't say much and is usually gone from the room. The lady on my right had a hysterectomy, and talks to me on and off. The bathroom across the hall has a shower and two toilets. Each stall has a shower curtain for a door. Paki brought me my laptop to watch movies, or better yet to write this letter.

Today is Tuesday the 10th.  I am hoping to go home tomorrow. I was on a liquid diet, now that has changed to a soft diet. Paki brought a cooler full of Gatorade, pudding, and Jell-O. One of his aunt's named Sola (she is married to his uncle) brought me a basket of fruit, juices, chips and candies. The doctor came in today, reminding me how lucky we are. The leakage starting on Friday didn't rupture Friday night, especially during softball practice, or even Saturday night or Sunday day. I was bleeding internally for almost three days and didn't know it. They removed the catheter today. I still have this other apparatus connected to my side that says 'Wound Drainage Reservoir'. It is supposed to be pulling out all the excess blood and water from them washing me out. I am just really sore where the incision is, other than that, I'm recovering. I am on antibiotics, and the doctor said that I'll have to take iron three times a day for the next three months. I walked around today. One of the things that can happen after major surgery is blood clots can break off and travel to your heart killing you instantly. That is why I had to walk. They call it ambulate so not to get a deep vein thrombosis. Paki spent most of the afternoon here with me and helped me with getting in and out of the bed, going to the bathroom, and taking a shower. He's been great; I just love him so.

I know that I am really blessed that the doctor was able to diagnose the problem before the tube ruptured. If she wouldn't have, I'm sure things would have been much worse because they would have been dealing with the unknown. I've never heard good things about this hospital. Someone did say today after hearing what happened to me, 'You mean to tell me this hospital actually saved someone?' All the stories from here have been of people dying, and some for no reason. Coming in with ankle pain, and then they are dead. One of Paki's aunts mentioned they came in for a foot problem and this hospital was recommending cutting the foot off. When they went off island to the doctors, there was nothing wrong with the foot that would require it to be amputated. I am just thankful that I was that someone they saved.

Well, I won't be playing with the softball team in the South Pacific Games. Three months of training to have to sit on the sidelines. I have six to eight weeks to heal. Yet, my life is my first priority, so it's okay that I'm not playing. I would say maybe next time, but the games are every four years and I'll be forty then. Some of the girls just stopped by and brought me a card signed by the girls on the team with money enclosed. There was Savanah, Theresa, Princess, Sulu, Jamie, and Christa (she's coaching us). Seeing some of the girls was a nice surprise. They said practice was canceled today in honor of me. Being here without those that I know and love, their visit did make me feel special, especially when all my family and friends aren't here. I will be going to the games though to cheer the girls and Paki on. In hopes that they still bring home the gold medal.



Wednesday July 11, 2007.

Another one of the players stopped by, Sally. She was one of the girls I sat and was talking to on the field Friday night after practice. The doctor just came in and asked if I wanted to stay another night. Of course my answer was no. I'm ready to go home and be in a more comfortable bed. I miss my kids, my husband. My restrictions are the same as if I gave birth. No lifting for six weeks, etc. They are going to remove the staples and the Drainage Reservoir that is still attached to my side. I will come back in a week for her to look at the incision, and then again in six weeks. I will be off work for six weeks too. She is giving me a prescription for iron, because I lost so much blood my hemoglobin went down and so I won't get anemia and antibiotics so that I don't get an infection.

Most stories have a moral or meaning. I am still in disbelief at how fast everything happened. We always think not me that would never happen to me. I know I would have never ever thought that I would have a tubal- pregnancy, especially after taking the necessary precautions to prevent such a thing. But to know death was so close. If I would have stayed at home like I was going to, you would never be receiving this letter. And I'd hate to think that my husband would have to make such a call to my parents, sisters, brothers, cousins, and friends to let them know I passed away.

So as you sit here and read this, just know that although we may not be in touch every single moment of the day, you are very much in my thoughts through memories and pictures, and I do love you all. It didn't take this to happen for me to realize that either, it took this to happen for me to be able to express it better.

May you believe and be blessed. Miracles do happen. It happened for me. Always,

~Nique~

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 8 , 2007'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Ruptured unknown tubal pregnancy.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was bleeding internally.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I'm not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian Methodist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I had faith that there was a 'heaven' but when living on faith it seems to be tested when things in life happen. After my experience, I know for a fact that there is something else out there. It is a peaceful realm. In a sense, because of what I went through, I'm not afraid to die.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian Methodist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had faith that there was a 'heaven' but when living on faith it seems to be tested when things in life happen. After my experience, I know for a fact that there is something else out there. It is a peaceful realm. In a sense, because of what I went through, I'm not afraid to die.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have established positive connections with people who are important in my life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was very hard to describe where someone could understand what I was feeling because it was so intense.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have seven children; the children's laughter that made me turn around was significant to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I typed on my laptop every day I was in the hospital. Then I emailed all my family and friends back home in the states. Many were in shock that I almost died. I don't know if anyone was influenced, but my mom opened up and described a similar incident when she had her kidney removed back in the early 1970's. They told her it was the anesthesia. After what I went through, we both know it was our own NDE's.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   The source of my knowledge would be things I've seen on TV Movies, etc.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was definitely real. Yet I wasn't sure who would believe me. That's why I wrote everyday while it was fresh on my mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shannique_s_nde.html