{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shannon_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Shannon Probable NDE 4852","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shannon Probable NDE 4852  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shannon Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2460 Shannon Probable NDE 4852  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Leaving my boyfriend's house (at the time,) I was driving too fast down a country road that I was not familiar with, in a 1971 Volkswagen bug. There were no lights, reflectors, etc. Approximately four feet from the end of road, I was still going forty-five mph and could not stop in time. To me, as soon as I hit, I opened the door and stepped onto the road, no pain, holding my face. I stood under what I thought was a street lamp. Three women came and said they heard the crash. They laid me down and one kneeled at my hip level, the other at about knee level, and the third at my feet facing me. At some point, one of the women told me she was going to go get a pillow and another woman was going to call for help. I'm not sure what happened to the other woman. 

I came to, on the ground, my boyfriend screaming my name. I vaguely remember the ambulance showing up and the forty-five minute ride to the hospital. I had bent the steering wheel in half with my face, and knocked the windshield out with the back of my head. The impact of the crash had buckled the back half of the car. I remember being wheeled through the emergency room and the medics and doctors talking around me. One saying he didn't know how I was not dead. I'm not sure how many days had passed since the accident, but when I told my version of what happened, no one knew what I was talking about or who the ladies were. My mother said I was late for curfew that night and she just didn't feel right. She called my boyfriend's home and he and his grandmother went looking, and found me approximately a mile from their home, out cold on the ground.

Immediately after the accident, I became very paranoid and in doctors terms began 'hallucinating'. I was immediately put on medication for possible schizophrenia. I am not however, schizophrenic. I had dealt with depression a bit at that point, but that is all. Since then, I have had too many experiences, as far as knowing things that were going to happen, of people I had not met yet, and more.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 5, 1995'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Head on car accident into rock and grass embankment at forty-five mph.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Immediately after impact.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately after impact.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As soon as I hit, everything started happening, when there was actually approximately forty-five minutes of 'lost' time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Three unknown women.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I thought it was a bright street light. (Incident happened on a dark road with no form of lighting, whatsoever.)

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The whole experience was oddly beautiful.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. Grateful these women were there to help me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Ninety-five percent.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It's not all black and white, and is definitely not organized.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It's not all black and white, and is definitely not organized.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just a feeling of knowing there were many things I had not known.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My family treats me like I am a bit off.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Mostly about other people's lives.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The woman at hip level and the street light that was not actually there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few months. They teased me, blew me off as 'odd', or mental health issues.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I thought everything had happened the way I saw it. I had no reason not to.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what happened. Even though I have been told what happened from other sides of the 'story'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shannon_probable_nde.html