{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shandeen_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Shandeen D NDE 9588","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shandeen D NDE 9588  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shandeen D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5165 Shandeen D NDE 9588  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I had a prescheduled surgery for November 10, 2022.  There were no family or friends with me.  My mom dropped me off and went home to stay with my baby. I was sitting on the hospital bed when a nurse came in and told me to change and put on the hospital gown.  She came back in the room and gave me an IV. Then another nurse came in and told me she will be giving me the anesthesia into my IV.  She told me I would fall asleep when I get to the surgery room.  However, I was told I fell asleep before then.  

  I remember waking up in the surgery room looking at myself on the surgery table.  I wasn't hovering over my body.  I was in the corner of the surgery room standing with a very bright light having a conversation.  I remember hearing the thought of the doctor and him being extremely worried that something had gone terribly wrong.  There were nurses in the surgery room.  I was standing next to the bright light laughing and having a conversation telepathically about how the doctor and nurses thought I was dead.  I guess because I had stopped breathing from sleep apnea.  All I know is that nurses and the doctor was surrounding my body. I don't know for exactly how long I stopped breathing but it felt like I was on the other side for months.  The light was telling me that there are a lot of people going through an awakening.  The light then told me it was time for me to return.

  All I remember is a nurse calling my name.  She repeated my name maybe 10 times.  I'm not sure.  I remember waking up and her being a bit scared asking me if I have sleep apnea. She was telling me that I needed to get checked out for sleep apnea.  I wasn't aware that I had sleep apnea until that same day.  My chest was hurting like someone had performed CPR on me.  I was later told that I had been in surgery longer than I was supposed to and that my mom felt that something was wrong. 

    Background Information:       

    Gender: 	Female    

    Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/10/2022    

    NDE Elements:       

    At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death     Sleep Apnea    

    How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing    

    Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Massive awakening    I clearly left my body and existed outside it    

    How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could zoom in on the thoughts of the doctors or nurses, I felt no pain, no worry.    

    At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was having a conversation with the bright light    

    Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast    

    Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning    It felt like the past, present and future happening all at once.    

    Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid    

    Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw extremely well    

    Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear telepathically    

    Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out    

    Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No         

    Did you see any beings in your experience?       No    

    Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No         

    Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin    

    Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright light that was filled with indescribable love and peace.    

    Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Maybe in a different dimension or plane.    

    What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, joy, Happiness,    

    Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness    

    Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness    

    Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world    

    Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood that that world I entered seemed more real than this one.  And that we shouldn't take this world so serious and to show a lot more love in this world.    

    Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No         

    Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Yes    

    Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  The light said that I had to return    

    God, Spiritual and Religion:       

    What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   Spiritual not religious    

    Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No         

    What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   Spiritual not religious    

    Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had a OBE/NDE experience before.    

    Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Love is the answer.    

    Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The light was brighter than the sun.  It was speaking to me telepathically.    

    Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No    

    Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No       

    During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Like I have done it plenty of times.    

    During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes, we are all one and connected.    

    During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes      God is everything.    

    Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

    During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yes, all the knowledge came to me when I had the out of body experience and when the bright light spoke to me.    

    During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Not certain    

    During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The light made it clear that there was life after death and we laughed how people thought death was the end.    

    Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No         

    During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Yes, that we should not take this life so hard and learn to love more and laugh more.    

    During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The light was love and that we should love    

    What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I'm more loving towards others and I laugh a lot more.    

    Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No     

    After the NDE:       

    Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Being extremely conscious is hard to put into words.    

    How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It feels like the event happened yesterday.    

    Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairvoyant    

    Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, when the doctor and nurses thought I was dead the light and I was laughing. The light told me not to take this life so literal.    

    Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes     I shared it with family and friends.  They were open to the idea of life after death.    

    Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had a NDE experience one other time before.    

    What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt more real than this reality.    

    What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It felt more real than this reality.    

    At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No              			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shandeen_d_nde.html