{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shannon_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Shannon T NDE 6119","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shannon T NDE 6119  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shannon T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2895 Shannon T NDE 6119  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was all by strange chance that in August 2011 I ended up travelling to Beirut for a breast augmentation surgery, having been born and raised in Ottawa, Canada, with access to lots of plastic surgeons within my own city. However, my best friend since childhood who saved lots of money by having hers done in Lebanon last year, and who was very satisfied with her results inspired me. 

I had been to Lebanon before and was comfortable with the whole idea, so within a week I booked my appointment with the surgeon, booked my flights, and organized to stay with my daughter's grandmother during my stay and recovery. The reason I was brave enough to go through with this is that I am a 32 year old, working and married mother of three who 'had everything going for me' but I was constantly nagged by a condition I grew up with called 'pectus excavatum' (congenital funnel chest). It seemed to be slowly getting worse and worse, and only people who knew me really closely ever knew about this condition, as I was totally embarrassed about it and able to camouflage it with super padded push-up bras. As strange as this may sound, not having normal sized breasts made me feel like I wasn't the person I could or should be, because I was missing what it took to complete myself and be happy. So on August 17, 2011 I walked into the operating room totally ready for it. I laid down on the operating table and the anesthesiologist told me that I would be falling asleep very soon. Then I just remember going 'out of it'. 

The next thing I remember is waking up in my body, still under anesthesia, and then realizing that my throat was blocked and I couldn't breathe. My first reaction was to panic and try to move my hands or shake my body to let the doctors or nurses know that I couldn't breathe. I could feel and hear everything going on, but couldn't do anything about it. I could feel the doctor stitching me up and the pulling and the pain so I just put myself at God's will, let go and felt myself pass out. It was then as if I was travelling through a dark vortex or tunnel at the speed of light, until I stopped suddenly to find myself in complete and utter darkness. I thought briefly of everything and everyone I was leaving behind, but had no worries, care or attachment to them anymore. I was in total bliss and awe that I was still alive but in another place! I suddenly just knew what I knew all along, that life does go on but in another time and place! I know that I was on the verge of reaching a light, but that I had to travel through the darkness of my own soul. I knew that I wouldn't be long in the dark and to just enjoy my time there until I ended up in the next place or caught another life. I wasn't a body there, just my thoughts and soul. I was completely detached from my life on Earth and just amazed at the infinity of this place. I feel that had I stayed there longer I would have reached where I was going and never come back. Then, all of a sudden, I was sucked back into my body and actually felt the pain of re-entering it. 

The doctors were shaking me and speaking something in Arabic. I could hear the machine buzzing, then suction, and then a tube being forced down my throat. I shook my head; they took it out and placed an oxygen mask on my face. As I could feel all the physical pain again I sucked in the biggest breath of life back into my lungs, but was then overwhelmed with both joy and sadness for being back here.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'August 17, 2011'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   During my breast augmentation surgery, whilst still under anesthesia, I awoke within my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was just in total peace and awe because I knew that I was witnessing the beauty of the creator I always knew existed deep in my soul. Prior to this event I was not aware of God's beauty and now I certainly am and have 'him' to thank for everything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time whatsoever.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm not sure it's a vision, because you don't have eyes over there, but your soul sees and knows everything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm not sure there is anything different here.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I was in a completely dark, vast universe and I could see what appeared to be space dust clouds. Even though I was in the dark, my soul knew that I was at God's will and that everything was ok. It felt like I was slowly drifting towards a light, I knew there would be a light soon, so I was just letting myself drift in total awe of the beauty of the place.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was floating in some sort of galaxy.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete awe, peace, warmth, infinite love and joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I didn't try to understand anything, I just admired the beauty of the infinite galaxy.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim   I was born and raised as a Catholic, but converted to Islam at the age of 24. At the time of this experience however, I believed in God but not in any specific religion because it never made sense to me that there are different Creators with different instructions different races.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Even though I am still undecided on the religion issue, I am constantly thanking God and just spending time taking care of the things he gave me (family and kids).

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   My experience did not identify any specific religion, but I do believe in God now. Still the closest description to the truth of what I saw is found in the Holy Qu'ran and in the Torah. I am still confused, but still trying to figure it all out. All I know is that there is a God and an afterlife.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed in one God for all prior - and that has not changed.    I believed in life after death - but didn't know what to expect. Now I know there is a life after death, but I just didn't get far enough into it to see more or to know more.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer value my career (which used to be top priority); I no longer value my education and material possessions. I have completely shifted to appreciating what I have and not searching for anything further. I know God is there for me and he has already awarded me many gifts.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I am now aware of God and his beauty that surrounds us. I find joy and happiness in the simplest of things now. I know I'm taken care of now.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     On earth, religion is used to divide people. There is only one God for all. I'm having a hard time to relate to any specific religion.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I am now aware that God (who is undescribable, unimaginable and not human) is definetly the creator of the universe and everything within in it. Life on earth is a transition. I now believe that depending on how you lived your life here and how much you acknowledge God - determines where he will put you in the next life.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Life goes on and it's beautiful!

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We have God to thank for every moment we spend on earth and his gifts: family, children, and the earth's resources that "he" provided for us. He gave us everything.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I am fully convinced now that life goes on after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I no longer fear death.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We tend to make our lives so difficult by chasing a good career to make money, have a better house, better car, better clothes, but the truth is that it comes with a consequence: we forget who we are, we forget about God, we neglect our soul (wich is how

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     All we need on earth is our belief and faith in God and to love, forgive and accept one another. God loves all his creatures.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I don't care about my career, money, house or anything material anymore. I just want to enjoy my kids, my family, my friends and all the beauty and simplicity of life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am certain that the gossip mills are running at full speed at work since I have taken an extended sick leave to be away from the place. I just don't care anymore because I no longer feel the need to impress anyone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   However, whenever I mention my experience people think I'm nuts. No one can really comprehend what I'm talking about and how much this has impacted me.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember it more accurately than any other experience in my life, because it was absolutely fascinating to see the other side!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I don't look at people the same way I used to. I look at them as 'unknowing' of the beauty of God's gift of life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I re-entered my body, I was both extremely happy to have been given another chance, but at the same time very disappointed that I couldn't have continued on where I was going, because it was wonderful!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few close friends and relatives. Some reactions are just a 'wow, cool' or they think I'm nuts, some think I was hallucinating on meds, and others have said they believe it too and have heard others share similar experiences.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It has completely turned my life upside down. I keep seeing it repeatedly in my head. My husband was afraid for a while that I was becoming obsessed with my experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I will never believe that my experience wasn't real. There is no denying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's great. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to share my experience!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shannon_t_nde.html