{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shane_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Shane P NDE 22339","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shane P NDE 22339  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shane P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2473 Shane P NDE 22339  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was diagnosed with seizure disorder when I turned twenty-five.  On that day, I had been at the lake with my cousin all day.  Admittedly, I had been drinking beer all day, which is not good with the medication I have to take.  By the end of the day, I wasn't feeling very well and after a battle of wills my cousin talked me into letting him drive home.  While driving on the highway home I started to feel ‘weird’ and started to feel like I was losing consciousness.  I remember my breathing starting to slow way down and I told my cousin ‘I think I am dying’ and then I had a seizure. I don't have any memory after that, of the seizure.  That's how they work for me. 

The next memory I have is I am laying on the side of the highway and my cousin is on top of me beating on my chest.  Then, I am conscious of the fact that I stopped breathing.  I am not panicking.  I am not scared.  I don't know how to explain it.  It's like I knew I wasn't breathing anymore but I didn't need to.  It was peaceful.  I was calm.  The next thing I knew I was looking down at my body and my cousin is slapping me on the face and beating me on the chest.  I was viewing this from about ten feet above the ground.  I could also see a police officer standing to the side, not doing anything by the way, and my cousin would yell at him to do something and he would just stand there.  I could see everything.  At that point reality hit me and the exact thought I had believe it or not was ‘I have to get back down there’ and my next memory is me taking a deep breath and seeing my cousin and paramedics. 

I was later told that it took the ambulance over four minutes to arrive and I had stopped breathing for close to four minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2002
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    seizure  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was with my cousin. I told him that I felt like I was dying.  I had a seizure and stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  In my experience I did not recognize myself as having a body.  I just seemed to have everything else.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully aware. All five sense were active.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The only sounds I heard were of the cars on the highway and other ‘natural’ sounds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I really don't remember having any emotions.  I did have a small amount of shock feeling when I realized what was happening but not fear.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   At one point I literally said to myself ‘I have to get back down there’ and that was it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       
     
After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Only in the way that it is hard for me to believe myself that it actually happened but it is very easy to describe the event because it was so clear and natural.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not being able to talk to anybody about it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shane_p_nde.html