{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shane_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Shane B Probable NDE 9680","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shane B Probable NDE 9680  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shane B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5200 Shane B Probable NDE 9680  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On the night of October 28, 2019, I had returned home from my job as a registered nurse. I prepared dinner for my wife and son. I began experiencing a dull headache and thought it might be sinus pressure. I took a hot shower. During the shower, a brain aneurysm ruptured. I collapsed and stopped breathing. My wife found me and performed CPR while awaiting the ambulance. The paramedics continued CPR to the local hospital where I was intubated, placed on ventilator support.  I was then sent to get CT scan where it was revealed I had a Grade 5 aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.  

  I was airlifted via helicopter to a major stroke center. I had a drain placed in my brain to relieve some of the pressure and was kept on full support in the neuro ICU for several weeks. 

  During my coma, I had an encounter with my deceased grandparents. They died over 25 years ago, but it was as if we had just seen each other. I was not startled by their presence. We walked along a bridge over a bay. The sun was warm. I could smell my grandfather's cologne. They were the last age I saw them, 25 years ago. A giant lightning bolt appeared within arm's reach and a flew through a dark tunnel. At the end of the tunnel, my wife was sobbing and smiling as I awoke from the coma several weeks later. It seemed like the experience lasted maybe 30 seconds total. 

  I was in a different city in a hospital an hour away.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 10/28/1019  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness   CPR given     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Ruptured brain aneurysm, Grade 5 subarachnoid hemorrhage, cardiopulmonary arrest, coma, brain surgery  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I felt euphoric and stronger than normal.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I dreamt of standing on the bridge with my grandparents, I felt euphoric and powerful; like I could run very fast and possibly fly.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In the dream, I seemed to see everything in great detail. I could count my grandfather’s eyebrows from a distance.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing seemed muffled.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Just prior to awakening, I passed through a dark tunnel, lined with a mist.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A giant, slow bolt of lightning.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     A very pleasant, warm, sunny day on a bridge over a beautiful bay.  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt euphoric and at peace.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have always believed in some sort of afterlife. However, I thought it would be less 'earthly' than what I experienced. I was thinking clouds and streets of gold and tearful reunions. However, although it was extremely pleasant, it was more like a great place here on Earth.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     What I experienced seemed so real it was like a normal, pleasant life experience.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The place seemed warm, safe, and pleasant. By the ocean which has always been my favorite.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am more patient, compassionate, and passionate about things that interest me. I have taken greater interest in the arts and gardening.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It was so vivid and realistic. I can recount in great detail.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think my encounter with my grandparents affirmed my belief in afterlife. And I think the lightning bolt was the energy that sent me back.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Hours  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was a paramedic and had resuscitated several people over my career. However, I never got the chance to ask what they experienced.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I thought I had died a visited heaven and was sent back.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It seemed more realistic than a dream.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       N/A         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shane_b_probable_nde.html