{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shannon_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Shannon C NDE 6613","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shannon C NDE 6613  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shannon C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3277 Shannon C NDE 6613  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't remember how I got there, but I ended up in a room that was like a waiting room. I saw many of my family and friends who had passed over, but they all had their backs turned to me. Everyone but my husband's grandmother (I later learned that she had passed away the same day I did).  She and I were trying to figure out what was going on. I could not talk to anyone but her.  She could talk to everyone though.  I was heartbroken, especially because I could not talk to my oldest son, who was fourteen.  

A door opened, the kind of door that elevators have. I saw a glimpse of Heaven. This was the Garden of Eden, the way God intended it to be. It was too beautiful for words.  I had that feeling you get when you see something truly amazing, breathtakingly beautiful. I miss it.  Anyway, there was a figure who came from one of the mountains. He glowed like white golden light, very warm and peaceful.  When he got closer, I knew he was Jesus. He still had holes in his hands. He told me I still had a job to do. Then I felt like I was stuck in some kind of vacuum. That's when there was a very bright flashing light. I hated that light. It hurts just thinking about it now. That's all I can remember so far.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Jan 9 3013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Heart attack. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I went in for gall bladder surgery and I threw two blood clots. They ended up as pulmonary embolisms. I was in complete pulmonary and cardiac arrest for over an hour. Once they saved me, I was in a coma for three days. I think when they brought me back they were flashing bright lights in my eyes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  The only thing would be Jesus.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   So hard to explain, it’s more like you actually feel what you see and hear. I guess I don't really have the vocabulary to explain it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the Garden of Eden.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I still have no concept of time. All I know these days is that when it's dark, I go to sleep.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was more bright and vivid. For example, down here, it's like an old black and white television.  Up in Heaven, it's high definition big screen television.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Again, it's like old records compared to surround sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A lot of friends and family members who had passed away.  My husband's grandmother, who passed away the same day I did.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was surrounding Jesus. It was a warm, peaceful, white and gold shimmering light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in the Garden of Eden.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first sadness and heartbreak.  Then, incredible peace and joy. Then pain and anger that I had to go back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I’m not sure how to describe this without sounding crazy.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I am a born again Christian but I will not  attend Church because of blatant hypocrisy I have found in today's organized religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus he came down from a mountains surrounded by the light I described before

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Heaven is real and it's almost indescribable

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     But I already knew God existed lol

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Absolutely like I said before the Garden of Eden as God intended it to be

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I was absolutely surrounded by love I'm not sure I answered this right lol

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am now brain damaged on top of my chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. I'm trying hard to adjust.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My family is closer now than we have ever been.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Like I said, I guess it's because everything is so new. I just got home from the hospital two days ago.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   I do have brain damage because I was without oxygen for so long I'm having huge problems with my short term memory I hop once I get more healedI can describe my experiance better

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm scared if I talk about this, people will think I'm nuts.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right afterwards, I told my doctors and my husband. They seem very interested.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Well I'm in that ‘month to a few week’ period, and I view it like it happened, I guess.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can't really prove it. You can believe me or not believe me. That's not really my problem. I'm still trying to adjust to everything, not only physically, but spiritually, as well. I have a gift now and I'm not sure how to handle it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I didn't understand some of the questions, but I have brain damage. So it may be just me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shannon_c_nde.html