{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sevin_nde.html","mytitle":"S\u00e9vin NDE 2333","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sévin NDE 2333  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sévin NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						705  Sévin NDE  2333  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		Experience Description:   

During the night of May 15 to May 16, 2004 at a Paris Hospital intensive care unit, where I was in a coma after a first surgical operation undergone on May 4th (aorta/ descending distal superior mesenteric artery - higher mesenteric - superior mesenteric artery bypass necessary because of superior mesenteric artery's occlusion).

Two phases for my NDE:  			      

Phase One: Flight in an extremely bright space, the very mild impression of a muffled, fuzzy ambience, no awareness of a physical body, surrounded by other beings similar to me, flight at a rather low speed, no noise, no air rubbing, all is white, flight lasted around ten minutes.

Phase Two: Suddenly I see a tunnel and dive into it at very high speed. No noise and no rubbing, as previously said. On arrival at the bottom, I decide to go up again. I believe that this is a decision to live taken at this very moment and, suddenly - nothing. Everything stops. I remember my family's visits, my eldest daughter speaking to me, caressing me and writing her surname on my arm: I seem to react since I move slightly.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 May 15, 2004   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Septicemic embolism requiring the taking of a cocktail of antibiotics (very high fever during this phase).  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the flight.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sensation of a muffled space, therefore deafness.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     At the end of the flight I fell down into a tunnel without any notion of closed space.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Other beings were floating around me (like angels).  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Powerful light during the flight and during the fall down the tunnel.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     le fameux tunnel de lumière  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   sans on  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   sans  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A month later with my family.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Humility, correctly notched buttons on religion are self-explanatory - forbids submitting other questions!     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sevin_nde.html