{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sergio_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Sergio S NDE 7751","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sergio S NDE 7751  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sergio S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3999 Sergio S NDE 7751  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was painting a room and tore a cartilage of an ear. In a few days, my ear became infected. I went to the doctor who prescribed a strong antibiotic injection. They gave me the medication in a certain house two blocks away from my house. On the third daily injection, I passed immediately from the place where they had just given me the medication, to another place that I didn't recognise.

This was a speedway autodrome for racing cars, where there had been an accident.  I was here seeing everything. I realised something special had happened. I looked around and saw a mountain of tall trees in the distance. I said to myself that I had to go to this place.  Without knowing why, I tried to go over there but couldn't because of a transparent film in front of me.  I couldn't cross the film or break it. When I tried to go forward, this film stopped me.  It enveloped me like a glove.  I returned saying slowly and firmly to myself, 'I MUST RETURN!'

Next, images of my mother and daughter appeared, as if I was thinking about them.  Again, I said, 'I HAVE TO RETURN.' This time, I was able to break the transparent film.  I appeared in a very bright tunnel.  It looked like luminous acrylic paints of different colors were falling.  I went through the tunnel.  I felt very happy and was aware that I was returning.  When I regained consciousness and came to on the floor of the nurse's house I was saying, 'I must return.' The nurse told me I had been on the floor for about five minutes without a pulse.

After a number of years, I ended up working as a cameraman of motor racing in Argentina.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Allergic reaction to an antibiotic

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The accident in the speedway, I experienced it as if that were real.  So that afterwards in my activity, I always looked out for it.  But I never found news of the accident.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In every moment, I was aware that something WAS NOT right.  In normal everyday consciousness, this doesn't happen.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In almost all the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Little difference. I had normal vision during the experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     In this tunnel you could return, but couldn't depart.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I appeared in an unfamiliar and strange place, and up to that moment, I had no memory of it.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Surprise, doubt, despair, and happiness in this order.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     One could say that I ended up working an identical job to the one I saw in the experience.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I knew something wasn't right, and I said to myself, 'I HAVE TO RETURN.' With much faith, I was able to break the film.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Fe en Dios...Pero no practicante.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Fe en Dio...pero no practicante

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never believed anything like that experience could ever happen to me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain.     For me, there are lives on another plane. I never found any other explanation for what happened to me, except that when we die we pass into another experience of life and we continue to live.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The difficulty isn't in explaining it, but in getting anyone to believe me.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember everything that happened to the minutest detail.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some time has passed. I don't know really how they reacted. I don't think they have changed in any way.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real to me. Very real. I am convinced it was real from everything I felt.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because when I remember, I have no doubts that it happened and that it was real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sergio_s_nde.html