{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shana_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Shana S NDE 6790","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shana S NDE 6790  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shana S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3386 Shana S NDE 6790  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Soulful Journey: Walking with Faith After My Neardeath Experience&nbsp; Check it out at:  				      Click Here 

  					    				  Day 20

You were designed for God by God.  You are perfect just as you are.  Tell ego to go take a hike.  You need to know why he has held out so long for you to see him.  Your true, everlasting soul mate you so longed for.  He is with you loving you every day before you were born.  Don't you realize how He adores and cares for you?  Don't you know He wants you to feel his love?  Ask and you shall receive.  I love you.  Why is this so hard for you when all you want you have?  God loves you so much.  I know you love Him too, so rejoice and be happy.

True love is yours forever into eternity with the one man your only true love, God the Father in Heaven, blessed be thy name.  May all the angels sing your praise for you and the most high, the almighty God, the Father, who created the Heaven and Earth.  May love surround you and fill your heart with bliss, euphoria, exhilaration, joy.  God is so great.  He is always with you.  He hears all your prayers.  He answers all your prayers.  God's delays are not God's denials.  Sweet child, go easy on yourself.  Mom is singing and dancing.  She is in the Graceland of Heaven and Elvis has just begun to live.

Day 21

Write, write, pick up your pen and write.  Be open, listen.  God loves you. He's here for you.  Amen.  You have so much to be thankful for.  You are a child of God who has loved the Lord since you were born.  Before you were home with God and you will return there when it's time.  When the lessons are learned your purpose for being here is for God's purpose.  You may think you have control, but you do not.  So you can continue in your life thinking you have a plan, but God has the only plan for you and for everyone.  He wants you to be happy, but his plan is right on track.  No deterring of his path.  I know this is hard for you to truly let go, and let God.  What do you do?  You keep listening, you keep writing, you keep reading, keep praying, and keep communicating.  Don't give up.  Never, never give up.  Winston Churchill reminds you, ‘Don't stop having faith and believe God loves you always’.  Amen.

Day 22

There will be a miracle today.  I deserve it.  Ego, go away.  Love, peace, kindness, laughter, all miracles.  There has been miracles and will continue to be miracles.  Allow yourself to be open for suggestion.  I want you to know that you are already loved.  You are a miracle to be here.  God is with you and loves you so much.  You are his miracle.  Make Him proud.  Serve Him, love Him, pray to Him, and write to Him.

Give all your worries to Him.  He can handle them all.  My dear, you are not alone.  You have love all around you.  It will be in your heart and soul to be loved and give love.  I know you are anxious and lonely.  You are not alone.  I want you to say, ‘I'm a miracle’, every day to yourself.  You are.  God loves you and protects you; He comforts you and watches over you.  He is with you now and always, just as far as your breath, as close as your heartbeat and every fiber of your being, I am.  Love, joy, fun, miracles occur always.

Day 23 

You're still feeling you are a body in this world.  You are not.  You are a soul in a body.  You are experiencing this earthly experience and do not like it.  Why should you?  You are a soul with a body and your spiritual needs are not met by the body.  Being physical through touch is not love.  It is proof you are in this body and so is everyone else.  You so desire love and higher power in soul in the spirit in light.  I know it's hard to understand, my child.  You will one day get to experience earthly love and spiritual love.  Spiritual love is the greatest and deepest.  I promise you that it will last forever, and you already know, you know how much God loves you and forgives you. 

You think you are wrong, but really you are confused.  Confused by this love on Earth.  Practice controlling your will.  It is given to you for a reason and you must exercise it.  You must believe in yourself as a miracle, a child of God.  What would Jesus do?  Why don't you remind yourself every day you are a miracle and what would Jesus do?  And you are lonely and confused.  Amen.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 7,1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The ambulance doors and siren. Paramedics and witnesses speaking.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   More vivid details from a different view above. I was looking down and not looking out at the world.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was out of my body on earth looking at my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     The life review went fast. Like fast forwarding a movie. But I saw and experienced it all again in my spirit.  Bouncing around the bed was slowed down.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Not very detail oriented at eight or even now, but I can recall details of my out of body experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very loud and hyper sensitive during out of body. I was hearing the ambulance doors and siren.   Now I’m very hyper sensitive in all areas of sound, sight, and even smell.  I was not prior to experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went into a white ball of light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was brighter than the sun.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven.  Light and love all-encompassing with Jesus.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared at first until I went to Heaven.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was having a tantrum in my having to go away from Jesus.  I was so mad. I fought so hard to not go back in broken body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Born-again Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My belief that Heaven is real was validated.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I was with Jesus and He told me it was not my time.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Met Jesus in Heaven.  I believe Jesus is God the Father of Heaven and earth.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Hard to express because of our limiting beliefs in our body.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     After losing my mother and sister, I was able to get signs from them that they hear me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being with Jesus free from pain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was fourteen or fifteen when I shared it with my doctor, then with Sister Maria.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Why did this happen to me and why am I suffering with debilitating panic attacks?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am blessed and have a reason for being here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain        				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shana_s_nde.html