{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1shaida_vh_nde.html","mytitle":"Shaida VH NDE 2347","mylang":"de"}
          	        Shaida VH NDE 2347  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Shaida VH NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						685.5  Shaida VH NDE  2347  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Hours after giving birth to my first child, Adrijana, I began to experience excruciating pain in my womb. I was asked to shut up as it was disturbing other mothers. A few hours later I began to leave my bed towards the ceiling and intuitively I knew that I was leaving my body to die. As I reached the ceiling looking down on myself I thought of my new baby and what would happen to her if I died, so I stretched my arms and pushed against the ceiling and returned back to my bed to find out that I was being transferred to a trolley to the operating theatre. I was never told why they had to operate on me. I have always known that I prevented my own death.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/9/1969  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth       Life threatening event, but not clinical death Hours after giving birth to my first child Adrijana I began to experience excrusiating pain in my woumb. I was asked to shut up as it was disturbing other mothers. Few hours later I began to leave my bed towards the cieling and intutively I knew that I wa  Complication after childbirth.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed to be aware of a knowledge that was not usually available to me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I reached the ceiling.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Timelessness and of not of here and now.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision had become overwhelmingly photographic recording every angle and every object in the room not necessary for my needs. I was noting a list of absolutely everything in the room to take with me to the next world. Apart from grey there was no other color in the room and the strangest thing was that the entire room was transparent enabling me to see through objects.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear no sounds at all. The world had shut itself from me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extremely frightened and alarmed.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        But I knew quite clearly about the future of new born baby if I went through the ceiling.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I was going to die.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Some years later I saw in an evening newspaper the assassination of an Irish politician called Kennedy (not the president of the USA) and commented to my then husband if he had been related to the deceased president. My husband was baffled by this comment and said that there had been no assassination of anyone called Kennedy. The following day the headline news reported the assassination of Senator Kennedy in Ireland.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The bleak future of my child after my death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The clarity in which it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because it was.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shaida_vh_nde.html