{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sergio_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sergio J Probable NDE 4806","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sergio J Probable NDE 4806  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sergio J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2513 Sergio J Probable NDE 4806  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It all started when I was diagnosed with a genetic disease (which until this age I did not know I had) called Parkinson's which, in short words, happens when you have an extra line stimulation to the heart.

At the moment two lines stimulate the heart, it beats twice faster than normal, and during the body strong effort episodes, no longer does its job, that is to say, only contracts but does not pump out blood, then, the lungs begin to fill with blood and the heart cannot pull it out of there.

I was taken to the emergency room and doctors performed a cardioversion on me: they had to stop the heart with an electric drive, to return it to its normal state. This intervention is done under general anesthesia.

Before being under anesthesia, I remember watching an image of Christ hanging on the wall, asking him to save my life, because my son was then only five years old, and my second son was about to be born in a couple of months, and obviously, I still had much to do in this life.

I fell asleep for a moment but I woke up with my head on the side, resting between two legs protected by a white robe, which feet were naked in a pair of sandals. Then, I felt an overwhelming peace.

After I saw this vision, I woke up - anesthesia had passed and my sister was in the room. I asked for the man who held my head between his legs but she said there was nobody. It is worth mentioning that my sister was present at all times.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  01/05/2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  'taquicardias altisimas por una via extra que tenía se estimulaba al doble el corazon razón por la cual no bombeaba como debería ser,  se llenaban los pulmones de sangre'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' se me practico una cardioversion para recuperar el ritmo cardiaco  Since my lungs were committed and I could not breathe, if they had not attempted to return my heart with cardioversion, I would have died by asphyxia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke up.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My head was resting between two legs which were protected by a white tunic, feet were naked in a pair of sandals.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A peace impossible to explain and protection from someone superior.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The fear of death disappeared; I know there is someone who will take care of me on the 'other side'.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    And the experience caused astonishment.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My wife was in a tunnel of white light, seeing a hand calling her out, but she did not move, she did not want to go to the light.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Real, it was an experience as real as if I woke up in the morning and see my wife and then I fall asleep again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have a vivid memory of what happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm not a person attached to religion. I believe in God but I'm not someone who goes to church regularly.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think it covers it all.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sergio_j_probable_nde.html