{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sergei_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sergei Probable NDE 4413","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sergei Probable NDE 4413  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sergei Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2132 Sergei Probable NDE 4413  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Late one afternoon in 2004, I was outside, feeling depressed and on an impulse, knowing full well that I was allergic, I decided to put an end to it all by stinging myself with a bee. When I went home, my father saw my swollen eyes and heard my weak voice he decided to send me to hospital. When I got there, I could no longer breathe and felt panicked because all I wanted was to breathe. Then I fainted.

Suddenly, I was propelled outside of my body and I could see the emergency doctors and another doctor come try to revive me. I could see around me. Everything was very bright and in sharp focus, no blurry vision. Then, looking at the scene I felt myself pulled into a vacuum that I couldn't see, everything was moving so fast. Then suddenly everything went black. For a moment I thought, hey, where is this, where am I? Then a great fright overtook me. Then a little later I said to myself, come on, calm down you can do it, and suddenly I felt calm and serene. To my great astonishment, I saw a brilliant white light that was very tiny then started growing more and more, coming toward me. I felt good and safe, but, when the light enveloped me, an enormous anger was coming from this light and it told me: 'Suicide is not a solution. Return to earth and start over! If you fail again you will have no more chances, I will send you where you must go!! There is a hell of horrible suffering!! You have not been good!' I replied, 'No, no, noooooo!' Then in an instant the light that had enveloped me was pulling away. Then, I was in darkness again. Then I woke up in a hospital bed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  21 juillet  2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Because I felt alive even though I knew my body was dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time when I could see my body, I was very lucid.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Felt that only the 'now' exists.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see more clearly.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a dark and long tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The light.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   This light was so bright, brighter than the sun.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     oui, c'était lorsque j'étais hors de mon corps physique, je pouvais voir le monde

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A feeling of complete lightness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw my suicide and sensed an understanding of my act.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I did not believe in hell or in God, but only in a being without a precise image.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I did not believe in hell or in God, but only in a being without a precise image.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yes!! When the light enveloped me, I felt an enormous anger coming from this light because before seeing it I was feeling good and happy. And the light spoke to me - see main narrative for details.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more alert and I am more understanding.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes!! Like when the light told me there is a hell of suffering!!! It is eternal!! I don't want to frighten anyone, sorry! But it's what the 'light' (God, the source) told me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had met people who'd seen a light of love. But for me it was different.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes!! That suicide and murders are not a solution, because the place where they'll end up is not pleasant!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sergei_probable_nde.html