{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1serge_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Serge D NDE 7166","mylang":"de"}
          	        Serge D NDE 7166  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Serge D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3633 Serge D NDE 7166  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It took me five years to be able to talk about my experience. On August 18, 2008, my sister gave me one of her cars and I drove from Maastricht to Cologne Airport. I had a flight to Budapest.  It is only a 150 km drive. It was nice weather, warm and sunny. I was driving on the highway when I felt something push on my car behind me.  I crashed under the truck in front of me because I couldn't control my car.  I felt no pain as I blacked out. 

I remember standing next to my body.  I felt free, light, peaceful, and warm.  It was simply an enjoyable situation.  I saw people running around the wreck, trying to push my body on the tarmac.  I tried to talk to them but realized I couldn't communicate with them. I kept telling them that I was good, and to leave me there.  Suddenly, a high-powered light came down in my direction and sucked me into a vortex. It was uncomfortable, but I didn't care.  I did not miss anyone or anything. I was just curious.

Within the vortex, I see pictures of faces and places all around me, but I was looking at them without any emotion.  After a lapse of time, I stand in an eggshell colored place.  It was quiet, peaceful, and warm. I was looking around. I enjoyed the view without any view. Normally I am very active, loud, and moving all the time.  Seeing colors of only eggshell and white surprised me because it wasn't in keeping with my character. I told myself, 'this is cool!' I can stay here with no pain, no hunger, nothing. A voice, perhaps in my head, told me my travel wasn't finished.

In that moment, I felt a sucking force coming from above.  The force drags me into a higher stream of energy where I left the earth and passed the moon and all the solar system.  It felt fresh, a bit cold, and I felt a bit of panic.  I saw the whole Universe floating around me, or I was floating inside this element. There are no words to describe the view and the feeling of the experience.  I stopped to contemplate the beauty of the big bang theory, the evolution, the balance between good and less good.  Another voice told me to continue. 

In a flash of feeling, I traveled into a different zone.  I arrived within a field of 'oily' colors that were pure and changing.  A wind blows perfumed air.  I had a sound of joy around me.  Something or someone told me to follow, and I did. I stood next to a small creek. There was a movement inside the creek. It was very colorful and very oily.  I had to touch it.  I put my hand in this oily non-fluid creek.  Instantly I was uploaded with all kinds of energy, knowledge, and electricity.  It was like an input of a glorious bang in my head.  I knew I was happy!  Until this time, I had no physical feeling.  The moment this energy went through my spiritual body, I could feel every molecule within me. I said to myself, 'Okay this is it! I stay here, no way back! Why should I go back?'  At this time, I had no memories about my past, people, or places from my earthly life.  All was gone. With no feeling of time or place, I felt a pain in my spine. Suddenly, everything started to change.  Everything got dark and started to cool down.  

Then without any warning, I was pushed back to my earthly body. That hurt!  In my opinion, that was hell and I hated it.  I woke up September 4, 2008 from a coma.  Then my life changed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2008 August 18th

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in a serious car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Before my accident I honestly didn't care about consciousness and alertness. I lived a cruel business life.  After my accident and my recovery period of one year, I am more conscious and alert than normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment of the touching of the creek, with this tremendous feeling of bliss when I was uploaded with energy and knowledge.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision is sharp.  I see in the dark and I can focus on small objects that others do not see.  I can now see more normally.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only hear what I want to hear.  But now my hearing is stronger and more sensitive.  I can't handle loud talk or noises.  I close myself in my own shell.  Apparently, I talk loudly but I do not have any control over it.  Other days, I am very silent.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Let's call it vertigo in movement.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I call it egg-shell.  Is that a term of warm, welcoming light?

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy, Fortunate, Blessed, Joyful, radiant, carefree, light, balanced, and delighted with a discombobulated touch.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The understanding what I perceive is a feeling deep inside me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     I can't speak about it.  I feel like a geek.  I see the future and what will happen to people, but I can't express it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I am a Freemason

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm freer. I have brighter thinking, more open to what Life gives to us.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Freemason

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     The human interpretation of "Holy" has been manipulated during the last centuries by humen for their own sociological, economical and personal interests....Tolerance is missing n the head of religious leaders...

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A decrease in all material aspects.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I didn't see anyone. I could only hear a voice. I don't know if it was it in my head.  I am still confused today.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     the "voice" followed me and guided me... I experienced the energy..

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This special knowledge I call it a 'burden': It is like I jump into people and feel their insides, their lies, uncertainties, fears, love, hope, and even more.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I am not able to write it down myself.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is life evrywhere even after....

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Indeed I have! But I am not able to share..

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     same answer 36

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is a complex settings of many emotions. Today Love for me is unconditional. It is quiet diffuclt for my surrounding to understand how I am. Many friends and family members turned their back on me.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life: A decrease on materials, futilities. I love unconditionally. I have no sense of time. I hear everything, I am constantly aware about movement around me. I definitely flow.  God is a word but I prefer to call it 'The Light.'  My definition of 'spiritual' turns into a way of life deep inside me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes It is not easy for my partner to understand my behavior.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I'm terribly ashamed about my experience. People are not willing to understand my experience due to their fears, ignorance, and mediocrity.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can't speak about it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I can't explain it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did. As an end result, I had a lot of criticism; family members and friends turned their backs on me. I left my comfort zone and moved to another country. I started in 2009 a new life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I'm not able to be 'earthed'.  I miss the feelings, the warmth, the Love and much more.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is deep within me. I live it daily.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is life everywhere. The 'voice' followed me and guided me. I experienced the energy. Love is a complex setting of many emotions. Today, Love for me is unconditional. It is difficult for people in my surroundings to understand how I am. Many friends and family members turned their backs on me.  Indeed, I have encountered specific information that is relevant to living our earthly lives!  I am not able to share. Humans for their own sociological, economical and personal interests have manipulated the human interpretation of 'Holy' during the last centuries.  'Tolerance' is missing in the heads of religious leaders.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1serge_d_nde.html