{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1selly_fde.html","mytitle":"Selly Fear Death Experience 3132","mylang":"de"}
          	        Selly Fear Death Experience 3132  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Selly Fear Death Experience   					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						1437 Selly Fear Death Experience 3132  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on a motor scooter and all of a sudden a car appeared in front of us. I was sitting behind, on the back seat. I was catapulted over the car but in that moment everything slowed down and I saw my body flying. I thought of how my family would react if I died and that I needed to do something to save my life. There was only the void but at the same time, it was as though someone was holding me. Then everything went back to normal, back to reality, and I found myself on the ground, unharmed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other incidente in motorino  I could have been severely injured but I came away without a scratch. I saw my body flying over the car and time slowed down.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was as though I was in another dimension and time passed extremely slowly, so slowly it seemed to stand still.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was like watching a film, I could see all around from any direction

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I knew that I had to make a quick decision and was able to analyze the problem in an instant.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer find the need to go to church to find God. He is in all of us and in everything that surrounds us. We ourselves are God. We come from him and we return to Him.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'credo in dio come ''il tutto'''

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer find the need to go to church to find God. He is in all of us and in everything that surrounds us. We ourselves are God. We come from him and we return to Him.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I think we are all part of a Great Plan wherein only love counts and all the rest is just an illusion.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     One afternoon I dreamed that I was at the foot of a mountain covered both in virgin snow and also grass and daisies. Jesus was there just a few meters in front of me and we spoke telepathically. I asked and He answered, but all the answers and concepts boiled down to one thing only: LOVE. He still stood meters away from me but I felt him hug me and it was as though He was within me and outside of me. I was filled with his love. It was immense, amazing, perfect!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't know. I feel as though I am a miracle, as though I was 'miraculously' cured.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years later but everybody was skeptical.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My father had had an NDE. He was in the tunnel then he found himself in a stupendous light where music was playing, he says you can't recreate that kind of music here on earth. There were people there but he didn't know them. He wanted to stay but he returned for his children. We were very small at the time. He also saw his body from above lying in the hospital bed.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I really don't know how to explain it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   While I was sleeping one night I went into anaphylactic shock. Suddenly I heard thundering voices that called to me, they told me to get up and I saw hands hitting my throat and chest. I woke up and ran to the mirror. I could barely breathe; my throat was almost completely closed up. I ran to the doctor's office. He gave me an injection. I could never have gotten the help I needed, those angels saved me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My spirituality has changed. What makes me sad is the emptiness inside all those who don't believe.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1selly_fde.html