{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1seedhom_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Seedhom B Probable NDE 2415","mylang":"de"}
          	        Seedhom B Probable NDE 2415  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Seedhom B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						970  Seedhom B Probable NDE  2415  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was suffering from a thyroid gland condition for more than ten years; I had many treatments for it but no result. So I decided to get rid of it. During the operation, I felt that my body is not totally anesthetized. I felt as if I was tied to the bed, and I felt I was among people who were joking and talking but I couldn't make any move. I tried to speak to let the people in the operation room see me and know that I am awake, but I felt my tongue was like a piece of yellow plastic torn in front. I heard the doctor saying, 'The patient is going to wake now, let's finish quickly,' and I heard him singing and talking with the nurse; and I heard him saying this operation is not good at all. The other doctor asked him, 'The patient is your friend, isn't he?' I heard the doctor reply 'No, I don't know this person at all, though he is my friend!' Then I heard him saying this stitching is not nice, repeat it. Then I heard loud voices, and I felt my body was flying above all, I tried to put it again in bed, but I couldn't. I tried to let the people know that I am in full consciousness, to move my leg or hand, I heard the nurse saying, 'Why does the patient do all these movements?'

Next day I asked the doctor about all my feeling he said, 'This is the secret of anesthesia, to let the body be anesthetized, not the brain!' What surprised me is the how could I hear voices and see colors of dresses while I was unconscious?

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 17/9/1999  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related     عملية استئصال الغدة الدرقية المتضخمة  Other تضخم بالغدة الدرقية وعدم توازن الحالة الصحية كلها وخوف دائم من الموت المفاجئ وصعوبة التنفس والغثيان  Undergoing surgery.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The consciousness was as normal, but as if it was a nightmare, I wanted to do something but I couldn't, as if I am paralyzed.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the operation.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I had the feeling that I was in a different time and different space, and I entered a strange place, but I can't remember it exactly.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The was a white light bright and disappeared gradually, bright and disappeared for many times, but I was busy trying to let the doctor know that I was awake, I didn't pay attention to that light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt I am going to die, or the breath would stop in any moment.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I left my bad habits, and I know now that miracles still exist.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   To feel that I had a dry tongue as if it is leather, I feel nausea for that, I could hear voices, feel touches, smell and see colors.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel as if I was out of this world and returned to it.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This experience let me know that the death is so near and also the life! And everything is in the hands of the God.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some people say that it is the effects of anesthesia, some people say anesthesia is not enough and some say is it nonsense.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel that God did this operation to me not the doctor; the angels did all the operation.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Please interpret what I had in my experience.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1seedhom_b_probable_nde.html