{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sean_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Sean M NDEs 7034","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sean M NDEs 7034  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sean M NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			3542 Sean M NDEs 7034  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I walked towards the orchard, it was silvery white and beautiful. I saw those I knew but had never met in this life, I was light and felt no pain, up until then my arm was in shreds and I was in pain. As I neared the beautiful orchard, I came to a cold stream. I knew, as if being told, I can never come back if I cross this stream. I didn't like my life so far, so I battled against it but couldn't cross it. Bang! I was back in my body with headache pain and heaviness, it hurt so much, but I was alive again. 

In my parents’ house, I turned the fire up as I was freezing. I put all my clothes in the bath, I ran cold water into it and the bath was red with blood. As I slept my heartbeat got shallower and shallower and faster, at some point, the beats were so shallow and fast they became just one spasm. 

I popped out and saw the colors coming from my parents’ bodies as they slept. I saw through walls and I passed through them. I lit up everything around me as if giving off white light. I shot off and the mountainous hills were like molehills. I soared at full speed through a black or dark space. I eventually saw a small prick of light that became bigger and as if playing music; it started to envelope me with love. It was alive! It spoke to me; it worshiped me and everything about me! I said prayers about St Augustine and it wasn't interested, it didn't want to know how many Hail Marys’ I had said.  ‘How much love was in your heart?’ it wanted to know. It mentioned something about Lazarus and how Jesus wept for his friend, ‘the Holy Spirit weeps for its children’. 

It made comments about when I would be 52 years old. I remember them now but just after the experience, I couldn't. I would fall in love and have my heart broken, and feel I would never recover and I should not try to commit suicide. The Light asked if I wanted to see all the times, I had been ‘one with it’. I said it would make me egoistic because that would have been what my religion taught; I failed here. I wish I had taken his gift. The light was 1000 times brighter than the Sun, but never burned. You felt you were the only one that mattered. It was.  The only description is pure love. 

When I tried to write a booklet it was impossible because words are such a dim reflection of this being. There was a flash of light and I was back in my hurting body, instantly. I couldn't move and hurt all over, so I prayed. The De Profundis [Editor’s Note: Psalm 129.] or something like that. I moved my right finger, then my hand then my arm, when I made the sign of the cross I was able to move again. 

For a week or two, I could see in the dark. I had the light talking to me and I could read the thoughts of people around me. The first thing the light said was to keep it quiet because if I didn't, I would be locked up. Gradually the light became less and less. I told people and the doctor tried putting me on anti-psychotic medication. That's not mad, right? Nuclear bombs and war are madness, seeing something beautiful and being at peace isn't madness, right?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  17/04/79

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I climbed over a hedge and slipped; I tried to catch the barbed wire in my hand and missed. The barb tore a long ways up my forearm, blood gushed. I fell. I saw a beautiful orchard and beings. I believe I had another NDE, in my parents’ house that night. I lost a lot of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Speaking to the Light, I knew all sorts of things, the light gave me insights and when I was out of the body I simply knew more: reincarnation and beings that I know personally who I never met in this life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Many more colors.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Things made music; the orchard sang its song to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was like a tunnel but I saw it as space: outer space. Between the Earth and wherever it was we went to was outer space.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my mum’s and dad’s auras, as they slept. I saw beings near the borderline orchard experience, who I knew. I knew them, but had never met them in this life. They could have been angels; or friends from past lives.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A white light 1000s times brighter than the Sun. This Light was pure love and indescribable, it didn't judge right from wrong (amoral) it just reflected on my actions. This is what happens. It loves us all so much; it would worship us if that were possible!

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I went up to the stream in the orchard and tried to cross it, it was heavenly. The orchard was full of light and nice beings.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ecstasy, Love, overwhelming love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     For a time I could read people’s thoughts and I had a light with me so I could see in the dark; this light spoke to me for 2-3 weeks. I knew everything at 17; all my thoughts were wrong all of a sudden. I knew the truth, everything had been turned upside down: good was now bad, bad was now good, and I had to relearn everything, even how to walk.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I wrote on a valentine’s card: ‘That God would have wept over the beauty he created!’ The girl went out with me years later we fell out. In the NDE the Light said that when this happens to remember his light because I would want to give up. ‘The Holy Spirit weeps over his children’. The key I was given was that ‘Jesus wept’ over ‘Lazarus’ and then I forgot this part of my NDE until this year when I was 52. The girl wrote me an angry letter and I had to get over it. ‘Leave my sister alone; leave my family alone, LEAVE ME ALONE!!’ She broke my heart. Recovering, I tried to remember the Lazarus messages, and eventually it all made sense. I felt loved by the light once more.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was a stream, leading to a lovely orchard. I was shown I could never come back if I crossed it. I battled to get across, I couldn't!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was catholic, now am not impressed with Ave Marias and chanting; only with the being of light. Who loves everyone and never judges.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths   The light was not interested in religion, didn't approve of it. I am now more interested in the Light than in religion.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I asked if St Augustine could pray for me, and can I say the "Hail Mary" The reply was "Do you want to see all the times you were one with me?" and "How much love was in your heart at that time?" I soon learned the light does not like religion. Only how much love there is in your heart.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had to reevaluate, I had to re-learn everything my whole World had been; and now it’s the right way. I was only 17, and I remember thinking what I used to call good was really bad, and what I used to call badly was really good.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   ‘Let me show you all the times when you were one with me.’ It was thought transference, as I didn't hear audibly; just the same, it spoke to me in my mind. I knew exactly what it was saying.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I met beings that I knew really well, but I have never met them! Not in my current life. Imagine meeting an old griend and all the feelings you get, then realising in this earthly life you have never met them.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It wanted to show me "all the times I was one with it". It was this light, whether you call it mystical or connection. It doesnt even seemed to KNOW right from wrong in the way that it never judges us, only says whether something will make our lives harde

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The being wanted to show me all the times I had been one with it.  I clearly remember thinking you are God! and an explosion of light and I was flung back into my painful body. To begin with I was a being of tremendous light. I started to work out THIS IS GOD!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The Light said ‘Do you want to see all the times you were one with me?’ This made me feel close to the light.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I had predictions about a hard time I would have with someone. I would have my heart broken into a million pieces. I must remember "The Holy Spirit weeps over his children" Just as Jesus wept for Lazarus. In all likelyhood I would commit suicide.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was out of my body and I said to one of the beings I am dead aren't  I? I didnt FEEL dead, and the being sort of smiled, by not saying anything I then knew I was dead, and that there is no "death" just a continuation of our consciousness.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I had predictions about a hard time I would have with someone. I would have my heart broken into a million pieces. I must remember "The Holy Spirit weeps over his children" Just as Jesus wept for Lazarus. In all likelyhood I would commit suicide.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I was shown I would have my heart broken. I was to recover and try to remember how the light loves me, and not to lose hope.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     It's not that I was afraid to die, after the experience I could see I was afraid to live. In this brush with death I lost my fear of death and my fear of life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   If you saw the most beautiful girl in the world and started to tell people about her how could words do it? I tried to write it in a pamphlet, but I found it hard to describe in words. I have even made a website with my story in English and Spanish.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I knew what people were thinking. I heard the voice of the light for a couple weeks. I shone like the light and I could see in the dark.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being close to that love and that light. It's where we all belong! Like being in your lover’s arms!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    From 1979, I shared it in 1986 with a boss who gave me Ray Moody's ‘Life after life’ book; then with a small publisher who got me to write it down, he later published it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had planned ‘To see God’, I never thought all this would happen. It blew me apart. As it was far more real than this muddled life, I have never doubted it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I have met others who have had a similar experience. I have read books. I now know the World is mad and I am sane.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I now have a website: www.heavenandhellnde.co.uk It has Spanish and English and Spanish and English Ebooks (pdf format)   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sean_m_nde.html