{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sebastien_b_nde.html","mytitle":"S\u00e9bastien B NDE 2420","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sébastien B NDE 2420  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sébastien B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						749  Sébastien B NDE  2420  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

At the first time, I was lying down on my bed ready to sleep when I felt an intense pain which seemed located in the heart (chest). Then I started lifting up towards the left corner of the room in front of my bed. A non-dazzling light was surrounding me, more intense at the upper angle. I was seeing only the angle of that color, not looking at the back or any other place in the room. I was feeling very good, peaceful, safe, relieved from I don't know what. And this wellbeing felt obvious as if I already knew this state and that it was good to experience it again. The movement of my body seemed slow and I was enjoying this wellbeing. I didn't see any being but I didn't feel alone though there was no particular presence. At one point, I understood that I was leaving and wouldn't come back. I wasn't sad or anxious; I thought it was normal. But suddenly I clearly heard my mother's voice who was in her bed with my father; even though they were in the room beside, I could hear them as if they had been close to me - I don't usually hear them from my bedroom. Soon images of my mother started crossing my mind and heart, my love for her strongly felt as well as her tenderness and love for me. Then I woke up in a sweat and sat in my bed, not hearing the voices anymore. While falling asleep again I immediately thought I shouldn't talk about this experience and that it was probably a dream.

At the second time, I was twenty-one and it was during weekend party; I hadn't eaten and slept much. I fainted in front of friends (six or seven people) while I was getting ready to leave for my parents'. I remember having understood immediately where I was, what was happening and where I was going. This time, I was ready for the departure AND HAPPY. I was propelled at high speed in a kind of tunnel made of substantial light. Like on the first time, the feeling and the light were the same. But this time, while travelling in the tunnel, the feelings of peace and wellbeing were mixed with sadness about the fact that it is very difficult to live in that state on earth, in our societies. Though many people talk about and run after it, and I knew how simple it is and that we are here to achieve and share it - it felt like a stupid mess. So this time, still surrounded with peace and wellbeing, I was determined not to come back. My journey was accompanied with diffuse music where I was. I was hearing only this music, not the tears and screams of my friends.

During this journey, I wasn't feeling any presence but rather energies creating a beneficial energy. Suddenly the voice of a friend came from far and became clearer and clearer saying, 'SΘbastien, stay with us, SΘbastien, come back!' At the beginning, I didn't want to because I was feeling very good and I also knew that the return meant returning to the surrounding sadness and hardship. But this voice, those words, brought images of my mother, of my father, images of all the moments of peace and love spent with my friends, girlfriend, family, teachers or even people met briefly. The feelings related to those images were close, even identical, to the state I was in. So, the voice became louder, persistent and a desire not to abandon those people and to accomplish something became very intense. Then I was disagreeably dragged back in the tunnel the other way round at a very high speed. Since I was lying down, I lifted my chest up screaming and, opening my eyes, I fainted again. A friend crouched down by my side was holding my hand while talking to me, another was holding my head, another slapped me in the face, a women was crying and all the others were voiceless.

Was the kind of experience difficult to express in words? Yes, it's a mix of acute sensorial experiences with strong feelings; the intellect and the emotional find a new balance, a oneness. UNFORTUNATELY, words cannot convey this feeling, this balance that doesn't leave an impression of wonder or supernatural, but rather an impression of what naturalness is, and at that moment, it seems so obvious and simple. THAT IS WHAT MAKES IT SO DIFFICULT TO EXPLAIN, and there are not so many notions expressed in words that can describe that state.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1989 et 1996  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         premiere fois allonge dans mon lit pour dormir puis forte douleur au thorax , deuxieme fois evanouis devant des amis .  Other premiere et deuxieme fois douleurs au thorax puis evanouissement.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Feeling of understanding who we are, what we can realize, what life might be, and it is so clear.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the second, right at the beginning  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time as 'one'.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It feels strange to see and feel (FEELING TOUCHING) immediately and simultaneously.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At the first time, my mother's voice; at the second time, clear music, then only my friend's voice; and then this feeling that one doesn't have to hear in order to understand a message  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A tunnel of substantial light which walls consisted in a kind of mist or cloud.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     But a feeling of not being alone.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light made of colors and non-dazzling.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     TOUT SEMBLAIS NATUREL ET NORMAL  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful and unconditional love; wellbeing, sharing and naturalness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     At the second time, the joyful moments spent with people encountered during my life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Premonition.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   pour la premiere j etais catholique modere atiree par la philosophie du siecle des lumieres (grand horloger) aynt fais mon cathesisme par choix et en retard de 2 ans je l ai recu directement du curre de la paroise seul et j etais egalement enfant de coeur  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     They have evolved as they already had before.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   AUJOURD HUI ; J AI UNE CONNAISSANCE UN PLUS APPROFONDI DU CHRISTIANISME ;CATHOLIQUE PROTESTANT ORTHODOXE; UNE APPROCHE EGALEMENT DE LA RELIGION MUSULMANE ET JUDAIQUE AINSI QUE DU SOUFISME. mais pour moi, aujourd hui, les religion ne sont qu une etape de l  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     They have evolved as they already had before.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The origin of hardships and everyone's ability to be happy.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain My relation to the other, to myself, to my family circle is always in progression; I cannot say what could have happen if I hadn't been through this.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Premonition about different probabilities of evolution regarding our societies and individuals and depending on their choices; but a constant positivism; because the result stays the same, only the possible roads and hardships differ - the greater or lesser pain associated with it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only after the second experience, to different people according to their situation and fears. An old lady once came directly to me to talk about it; maybe on a year after the second time. She explained what I had been going through, said that it was normal, that I wasn't alone, that I should accomplish what I had returned for and that this would become clearer after some time. I never saw her again; I was a real estate agent at that time.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Not much before the first. Only the memory of a conversation with my father during a lunch; he was talking about this phenomenon which happens to people involved in car accidents.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     At the first time, like a dream close to be real because I was conditioned by my education; second time; when will be the third?  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was unquestionably real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Training.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is possible to gain this sensitivity and understanding in ordinary life; I even believe that (à).  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I will think about it and I thank you for allowing me to talk about it.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sebastien_b_nde.html