{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1scott_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Scott B NDE 22991","mylang":"de"}
          	        Scott B NDE 22991  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  			  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Scott B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3819 Scott B NDE 22991  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While dead, I was in the presence of the Supreme Being. There was no pain.  Although I was aware of my accident, I had no speech.  It was more of a thought transfer or telepathy. There was no darkness, only light.  There was had no sense of time; I felt like I was out for 10 minutes. When I woke from the coma, I was told I was out for 5 days! 

I was in a different consciousness that was a more aware, higher state of being. I did not want to come back, even though I knew I had loved ones on earth including a child. Where I was, was so wonderful that it trumped all experiences on earth. In particular, there was the feeling of being loved without worry or sadness.  

I've been in and out of prisons and jail was my whole life since my youth. These punishments did nothing for my addictions but perhaps made them worse. I had a little time of being sober by going to meetings but the underlying urge was still there.  I ultimately would wind up at the crack house again.  

This experience has taken the urge from me. Our time here is so short and I feel like I was sent back to tell others the TRUTH.  We do not simply go into a grave after the body dies and that's all.  Rather, that is a beginning to really living.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April, 19, 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.       I was a practicing crack addict, drinker, and pot smoker, at the time of the accident.  I’d been doing these substances for years and never had anything even remotely close to this experience. I was clinically dead from going over 80 mph on a Kawasaki Ninja with no helmet on when I crashed and died.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      It was as if I was awoken from a sleep and now in the Real state of being.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Higher state of consciousness, more aware. As if I was awoken from a sleep and now in the Real state of being.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no essence of time there. Felt like I was out for 10 min and found out I was out for 5 days.

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sight was intense; no sound, mental state was intense, no physical feeling like touch. Not sure of smell.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Light was everywhere, not like the Sun gives us but rather everywhere. It was like I was in the light. There was no darkness at all. I was IN the light. The light was everywhere. Not like the Sun gives us light from a source but rather I was in the source.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I remember pleading with the light, or presence, that was felt to let me stay. There was nothing but me and this presence.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was IN the light. The light was everywhere. Not like the Sun gives us light from a source but rather I was  in the source.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Sight was intense, no sound, mental state was intense, no physical feeling like touch.Not sure of smell.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Upset I was sent back! I was loved with a Love we cannot comprehend. No fear, worry, doubt. LOVE, JOY, PEACE, Ah-h-h-h-h-h, I'm finally home where I truly belong. Sobbing with joy and pouring out with emotion.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     There is MORE. I came to know that.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   YES and I didn't agree. I was aware of there being a decision made and I guess it was not my time, although I remember pleading to stay specifically.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know this is temporary and life here is very short in the grand scheme of things. Not scared of death now, don't go looking for it either. Not my decision.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was no speech, only telepathy. Nothing on this physical earth can compare except perhaps the feeling you experienced if you were there for the birth of your child x 100. It was really wonderful!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was knowing there's more and how wonderful it is. Worst was being sent back to Earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've run into several people who have had the same experience in some ways, if not all. We all agree that there is no essence of time and no pain as well as we all wanted to stay. In modern terms, it's all good; everything was wonderful beyond words. They also experienced telepathy, no speech.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The best part was knowing that there's more and how wonderful it is. The worst part was being sent back to Earth.  I'd love to share my experience with others as I feel that was one of the main reasons I was sent back.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1scott_b_nde.html