{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1scott_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Scott A NDE 947","mylang":"de"}
          	        Scott A NDE 947  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Scott A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						401  Scott A NDE  947  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I passed out from the rush of air ( I think). I was standing on a beach naked, approximately twenty feet in front of me was another naked person, in front of him/her at the same distance another and so forth. I couldn't move my body, however I could move my eyes. I could not speak either, I couldn't move my lips. Beside me in both directions at about twenty feet were other people, and beside them others. We were all naked and unmoving unable to speak, only hear and see.  The beach was endless. The most captivating part of this was that there was an ocean with waves crashing in over people, who were unable to move, and then receding to show that person was still there.


The ocean was not water but fire, in the shape and appearance of water. It seemed to me that this tide was coming in. I stared at this in bewilderment, hence finding out I could not speak let alone cry out, my mind was frantic. Then to my right I noticed that there was someone moving freely, not walking but just appearing in front of some of the people there. I had noticed this person from a long way off as he seemed very small, just an silhouette, then he was in front of me. He had a kind face; grey robes; a grey head scarf like that worn by Muslims; and a whitish grey beard.  He uttered no words for I did not see his mouth move, but he 'said', 'You do not belong here.' And the next instant I was flying at quite some height over the fire sea and then I awoke to find the whole school surrounding me.


None of my friends would tell me what had happened but within my own mind and heart I knew that I was not with them.  Since then I have had three out of body experiences, leaving no further than three feet from where I lay, from fright more than anything else. I've also seen into the near future, usually within an hour, and sometimes I get unlearned knowledge which is hard to explain.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    roughly   1983

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain        pushing air to brain by taking 3 huge lungfuls of air holding the last, and having someone push on your chest, hell of a rush after you woke upwoke up to find the whole school around me, which would have been difficult to achieve

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    not that i noticed but was rather young at the time

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      One hundred and ten percent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Beings on the shore and an elder person.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Saw what appeared to be an oasis in the distance surrounded by trees. Just looked nice could almost say felt nice while looking at it out of the corner of my eye.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      scared, overwhelmed, confused

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Future sight, I used to be a diver in the commercial fishing industry I could point directly at sharks and know their distance before laying eyes on them, feeling and seeing events in my mind up to a week before they occurred.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - waking up. Worst - being there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some believe you some don't.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No, its all there in black and white.  However, using magic mushrooms six months or so prior is the reason I went there in the first place.  Also ridiculing any religion, I just didn't see any reason to believe.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No
  			        
</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1scott_a_nde.html