{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1scott_s_nde_4772.html","mytitle":"Scott S NDE 4772","mylang":"de"}
          	        Scott S NDE 4772  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Scott S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2419 Scott S NDE 4772  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was, essentially, strangled to death. More important, I suppose, are the 'narrative accounts' that followed.

Basically, I found myself in front of a house - it appeared to be a country house, if not a farm house - and I saw maybe a dozen at least, two dozen at most (hard to recall), people at the porch/patio area waiting for me. At first, I couldn't recognize them, as they were far away. But then, one by one, they started coming down the steps, walking towards me, and shaking my hand. When they would come close enough, I would be able to 'know' them.  However, I could not tell you now who they were. All I can say is that they were familiar - but yet, more than familiar. They were loved by me. I knew that I loved them and that they loved me. I try so hard every day to try to figure out who they were, but I can't. They made me feel so welcome. It was an indescribable feeling. It was love, par excellence - and I didn't even know, exactly, who they were. They were welcoming me into the house - whatever that 'was' - and yet, I was growing ambivalent about it. I think maybe I met (and loved) about six of them. And then, suddenly - and yet, not-so-suddenly - I came back into consciousness.

All was gone. I miss them dearly. And one day, I hope that I am able to return back to that house, whatever, and wherever, it may be.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  06/28/10

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   This question is ambiguous; that is, it confuses me, throws me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       That's an ambiguous question. Right in the middle, I suppose - when I was shaking their hands and feeling a sense of, well, pure love.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Not sure.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I've never seen anything like that.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There were no voices. There seemed to be no need for talking. Everything was expressed - what's the word - emotively(?).

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I did not enter the house; did not make it that far. Happy I didn't.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I think the house was the light; or, inside of the house was the light. Either way, I did not go inside.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A house I'd never seen in a pasture I'd never witnessed.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, slight confusion, affection, ease, contentment, understanding.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Open

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     There is, indeed, something 'there.'

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Open

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is, indeed, something 'there.'

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That things were meant to be - that we visit 'the house' - and that we always 'come home.'

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The feeling - that feeling of - belonging.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     It's hard to tell.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it immediately. They reacted normally; that is, they treated it as though it was no big deal (while conceding the fact that it was, in fact, a big deal). Some of them were more moved by my 'story' than others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just thought about it - endlessly. How could I make sense of it, I wondered. What did all of it mean? I still think about it, and it's been months. Potentially two dozen people standing on a porch smiling at me and, one by one, coming down to greet and invite me, and for whom I have the utmost love even though I don't know, really, who they are - how are you supposed to make sense of that?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1scott_s_nde_4772.html