{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 5285","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n37_feb_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N37 February 1887","mylang":"de"}
:Ko. XXXYJI.-VOL. IlL FBlmU.\RT. 188'1.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTBNTS.
"WID·Transference." Fact or FanC)'! by the Rev. P. H. Newnham
Jdesmerlc Experiments .•
Correspondence •• .• •. ••
The Second Volnme of the JournaZ.•
.. Pbautuma of the Lhing" ••
Supplemental')' Librar)' Catalogue ••
" WILL-TRANSFERENCE."
FACf-oR FANCY 1
By !rIlE REv. P. H. NBWNlIAM.
P.lOB
... '9
•• 66
•• 56
•• 61
•• 61
•• M
In the very interesting and inlportant paper on "Some Higher
Aspects of Mesmerism," by Messrs. Gurney and Myers, as published in
Part IX. of the Proceedings of our Society, and at the top of p. 417,
we read the following sentence :- -
" Again, we haTe probably all of us heard someone claim to have- made
someone else look round, in church or theatre, by fixing an intent gaze on
him ; but such cases must clearly be reckoned as mere illusions of pollt hoc
propter hoc, of successes noted and failures forgotten."
I am aware that it must appear presumptuous in me to challenge
the deliberate conviction ·of such authorities on all questions of tele-
pathy ; but I nevertheless feel bound, in the interest of what I conceive
to be the truth, to place on record a very respectful caveat against the
acceptance of this dictum.
The uniform experience of some 40 years convinces me that the
power alluded to really does exist; and I must acknowledge that I read
the sentence above quoted with feelings of utter amazement, as the
habitual. exercise of this power has been a thing familiar to me as long
as I can remember, and I have always accepted it as such a matter of
course that I have taken for- granted that everybody else recognised it
••As a lad and youth of from about 14 to 22, I remember constantly
amusing myself with it, especially at church. On two occasions I
utilised it (once at the request of my tutor), in order to cure persona
of a disagreeable habit of staring in church. I made them look at me,
as soon as they had entered their pew, and kept on doing so until I had
B
Digitized by Google
50 Jowrnal of Society fO'l' Psychical Resem'ch. [Feb., 1881.
succeeded in rendering them thoroughly nervous and uncomfortable.
They never stared at our pew again! -
I frequently made practical use of the power, in after years, in
church, when I had forgotten something that I needed. (N.B.-Not
my sermon 1) The first occasion on which I remember doing this was
about 1872, when I had left in my study some special form of prayer
which was ordere,d to be used on that Sunday. When I discovered that
I had come to church without it, I willed my gardener to look at me,
which he did in a few seconds, and I then beckoned him up, and sent
him for the missing paper. I have done the same thing during service
time, scores of times, when I wanted ~ door or a window shut, or a.
person shown to a pew, &c., &C. I ha.ve never failed, except with one
person, and with him I could only succeed about once in three times,
as the more uncomfortable he grew, the more he kept his eyes sternly
fixed upon his book.
I was once talking of this power in company, when a young lady
expressed her doubts of its real existence. Being seated opposite to
her shortly afterwards, I made her look at me six times in succession,
carefully avoiding catching her eye until the sixth time, when I met
her gaze and told her what I had been doing, and she at once acknow-
ledged that she ha.d found herself constantly looking up at me, without
knowing why.
I regret exceedingly that I have kept no written memoranda of
some of these experiments, but I never thought there was anything
unusual in them, or anything that was worthy of record.
In 1873, I distinctly remember experimenting at a series of concerts
to which I was invited. The company consisted of persons almost all
of whom were entire strangers to me, and I tried the power almost
exclusively on those who were sitting in front of me, and who, there-
fore, could not catch my eye by just lifting their heads. It was very
interesting to see them first fidget about in their seats, and at last turn
their heads round and look about them, as if to see whence the uncom-
fortable feeling that influenced them was proceeding.
I opened a correspondence with Mr. Myers on this subject, in
February, 1886. I felt very strongly the objections against the
scientific value of such more or less vague memories as I have above
referred to, which are based upon no written memoranda., and are only
recalled through the glorifying mists of personal gratification at success,
as viewed in the vista of past years. And, therefore, although con-
scious that I no longer possess the power so fully as I used to do" in
former days, I resolved to make some iresh experiments, and carefully
note the results.
Under my present mode of life, I can only make these observations
Digitized by Google
Feb.,1887.] JOu,'MUtl oj Society JOT Psychical Research. 51
during the time of service in church'. I have endeavoured to lay down
certain conditions under which these observations shall be made. It
will be seen that these conditions are such as to handicap the observer
very heavily; and I think that successful results obtained under such
conditions will fully establish my claim that the power is something
that really exists, and merits scientific observation.
1. My first condition was, that no observations are to be made from
the pulpit, or during any time in the service when the eyes of the ,
congregation naturally turn, more or less frequently, to the speaker or
reader. I observed only during the singing of hymns or canticles,
when the eyes of the congregation are fixed on their books, and their
attention occupied by the words that are being sung. I may add that
my congregation is singularly musical, and takes a rapt delight in the
singing.
2. My second condition was, never to attempt to influence those
with whom I am specially intimate, or with whom I have been brought
into religious communion, as in Confirmation and Bible-classes, sick
and dying beds, &c., &c.
Under these conditions I made a series of observations on Sunday
morning, FebrualY 7th, 1886, and wrote down the results as soon as
possible after my return home. The original memorandum was
completed, and dated, at 2.30 p.m. of that day. This memorandum,
as furnished to Mr. Myers, contains the actual names of the persons
experimented on; but, for obvious reasons, these cannot be printed.
With this exception, the following schedule is a strict copy of the
original draft; nothing new being inserted except a few connecting or
~xplanatory words.
The experiments took place at five different times during the
service.
i. WMle singing tll£ "Te Deum."
1. Girl of 13. In the choir. Attends a. Bible-class that I hold; but
is shy, and not familiar with me. I have never attempted to
"impress" her religiously, in the least. She always sings with
her head bent down, and eyes on her book; and I have in vain
attempted to cure her of this habit.
She looked up after about one minute, and stared vacantly.
2. Boy of 12. In the choir. Goes to school in the next parish.
I scarcely know him, even to speak to,
Looked up in from 10 to 15 seconds.
II, Wl,ile singing tll£ "Jubilate."
3. Strange man: name unknown: about 35-40. Never seen before.
Looked up, .lightly 1:acant, in about 20 seconds,
E 2
Digitized by Google
52 Jou,1-nal 01 Society 101' Psychical Reseu1'ch. [Feb., 188T.
4. Young married woman, about 32. Used to sing in my choir nine
years ago. Now lives in the Isle of Wight, and was on a. visit
to friends.
Looked up, decidedlY'/)(Jcant, in about one minute.
III. W/~ile lJlaying tune offir81 l~ymn.
5. Unmarried lady, about 70. On a visit in the parish. I know her
to speak to; but no more.
Looked up sharply, in about 20 seconds; first to right, then to
left, as if to see where something was; then looked, vacantly.
towards me.
IV. Wl~ile singing t/~ fir8t l~ymn.
6, 7. Two women, unmarried, about 25 and 40 respectively, domestic
servants in the parish. I only know them to speak to.
My eyes were looking just between these two, as they stood side
by side, and I had scarcely determined which of the two to
operate on, when both looked up simultaneously, certainly' in not
more than five seconds.
8. Boy, aged 10, attends school in another parish, and I scarcely know
him.
Looked up, vacant, in less than 30 seconds.
V. W/~ile singing tl~e 8econd l~'!fInn.
9. Unmarried woman, age about 33; almost a stranger to me, as she
lives 'Out of the parish, and generally'attends church elsewhere.
Looked up in less than 10 seconds.
10. Unmarried woman, aged 63. Rather hard in character; and some-
what antipathetic to myself and my parish work.
Began to fidget in 20 seconds; but kept her eyes fixed on her
book, and sang steadily. I must have looked at her for two
minutes, and was just on the point of giving up, when she
looked up, vacant.
VI. After Service.
11. I wanted to speak to one of the churchwardens; but as it was
the Sunday when I retained the offertory, I knew he would not
come into the vestry. I therefore willed him to look at me as I
was leaving the church. I did not look at him or towards
him ; I simply willed.
I passed into the vestry, some 25 or 30 feet from him, as he
stood in the body of the church, and as I was in a line with
him I turned my head, and he looked up and caught my eye at
the same moment.
.
Digitized by Google
Feb.,1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 53
NOTE.-I consider this case, per se, as having no evidential
weight, as he might have looked that way out of respect to
the clergyman passing. I only record it as connected with
the foregoing series of invariable successes. Valeat quantum.
I think that such a series of experiments as those which are thus
recorded are sufficient to establish a pritnt1. facie claim to the careful
investigation of my assertion, that this power of "will-transference" is
something more than imaginary, and that there is something in it
beyond mere coincidences noted and failures forgotten.
But, in experiments conducted under conditions such as these, there
is still the possibility of coincidence to be carefully considered. A
dergyman who occupies a conspicuous station in the church is, of
course, a centre of mental gravitation, and it is probable that many
eyes are constantly being turned in his direction. Of course, the
selection of the intervals of singing for the experiments reduces the
probability of such coincidences to a minimum, but still it is a factor
that must be dealt with.
On February 21st, I therefore set myself carefully to note how many
persons looked in my direction during the same intervals of the service
as I had experimented in on the 7th. It was not a very easy experi-
ment to conduct, as I had to keep my eyes always ranging round,
without allowing them to rest long enough on anyone person to have a
chance of materially influencing them. It must be remembered, too,
that if there be any telepathic influence thus transmissible, the very
fact of my self-consciousness would predispose very sensitive subjects to
absorb the influence beforehand, and so almost to anticipate my glance.
During the singing of the "Te Deum"one small boy looked at me. He
is only seven years old, and never looks at his book, but is always staring
round the church. Of the 50 persons within range of my eye, no one
else even glanced up for a moment.·
During the singing of the hymns about 70 or 80 persons were well
within my range of sight. Of these, two looked up at me. One of
these, a young man of 24, never sings, and never looks at his book
during the singing. The other was a delicate and hysterical girl of 22,
upon whom I should consider it unfair for me to attempt any ex-
periment.
I imagine that some of my readers will say that I must have a.
"model congregation." I cannot help such a suspicion arising. Facts
are facts, and my business is simply to record "facts as they are."
There is one point to which I must a'3k special attention. It will
be observed that in six out of the first 10 cases I note that the look is
more or less 'lJacp,nt. I find that in a large proportion of instances this
is the case. The first glance is unintelligent. Even when the eyes of
Digitized by Google
,
54 Journal of Society f01' Psychical Reseu1'ch. [Feb., 1887.
the persons operated upon look me full in the face, their intelligence
does not seem, for a moment, to recognise what they are doing. H I
want to arrest their attention I have to make some distinct sign; on
perceiving which they appear for the first time to become aware
that they really are looking at me. In some cases this rolling of the
eyeball, and the sightless stare that follows, is very marked. Surely
this fact alone practically removes the question outside the region of
coincidence, and indicates the first commencement of some form of
hypnotism, induced by the transmission of ~e operator's will, pure and
simple.
One very interesting experiment that I tried, later on, illustrates
this point admirably. During the singing of one of the canticles at
evening service, a few Sundays later, I experimented on a young lady
of 14 who has been totally blind since she was about three years old. In
a very few seconds I perceived her eyeballs roll, and then she-
mechanically turned her sightless orbs straight in my direction. It
was a very touching sight; and I shall never forget it.
For obvious reasons, I do not care to multiply these experiments
among my own parishioners; as I conceive that though the
experiments have been few, yet their invariahle success is sufficient
to establish my claim to a full investigation of the question. But,
happening to be in one of our cathedrals, one day in May last, in a city
where I was a perfect stranger, I took occasion, during the singing, t()
experiment on nine different persons, who were sitting opposite to me-
both males and females. Again in every case was I successful, in
periods of time varying from a few seconds to not more than one
minute.
It seems to me, I must confess, that with our present knowledge of
ordinary thought-transference, and of the special will-transference of
the mesmeriser, it would be strange if the phenomenon I have been
trying to illustrate did not exist.
And, again, as we know that there is "no smoke without some fire,"
do we not need this simple fact as the foundation for the world-wide
traditions of the" evil eye"; "malocchio"; "overlooking," and
numerous other words of a like significance, which we meet with
everywhere 1
I therefore venture to put at the head of this paper the name of
"Will-transference," as a necessary complement to the name of
" Thought-transference"; and as designating what I would suggest as
simply another "mode of " telepathic " motion."
[The substance of the foregoing paper was sent to the Editor of
the Journal some months ago; but the MS. was unfortunately
.destroyed in the fire at the offices of tlle National Press Agency.]
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 55
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
Last term a professional mesmerist, Mr. d'Auquier, gave some
public entertainments at Cambridge, in the course of which were
exhibited what he professed to be thought-transference between him and
his subject, and hypnotic phenomena which seemed interesting. From
what was known of Mr. d'Auquier, there appeared to be good reason for
believing that he was a trustworthy person, who would honestly join in
scientific investigation; and therefore Mr. Myers, Mr. Langley, and Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Sidgwick thought it worth while to try to secure his
services for private experiments. Mr. d'Auquier agreed to come to Cam-
bridge for these experiments for six days, from Monday, January 3rd, to
Saturday, 8th, inclusive, bringing subjects with him, for sixteen
guineas. Besides those already named, Mr. Wingfield, Mr. Hodgson,
Mr. Gurney, and Dr. Gaskell took part in the investigation. Mr.
d'Auquier's subjects were a lad named Johnny, and a Miss N.
The thought-transference experiments were conducted as follows :-
Mr. d'Auquier hypnotised Miss N., who then lay back in her chair
breathing heavily. He took up his position, standing or sitting, at
some distance behind her, and a paper was then handed to him by one
of the investigators with the name of a playing card written upon it. He
professed to coucentrate his mind on this card, and after some time
Miss N., who had a pack of cards in her hands, or on the table beside
her, roused herself, and selected a card out of the pack-usually the one
required. Sometimes she failed and often she hesitated between two.
On the first occasion Mr. Hodgson thought that the effect might be
produced by a code of signals consisting of a combination of Miss N.'s
heavy breathings with sounds made by Mr. d'Auquier. He communi-
cated his suspicions to the rest of the party, and all watched. At each
experiment the code became clearer to them. By Thursday it was
completely known. Not only could every member of the party discover
from the signals with more or less ease and certainty cards unknown to
him, but the signals were telegt·aphed by Mr. Langley and Dr. Gaskell
to an adjoining room and there automatically recorded, and the record
correctly interpreted by Mr. Wingfield, who had not been in the room
with Mr. d'Auquier and Miss N. during the experiment at all. It
seemed needless after this to waste time in watching the transfer of
diagrams which Mr. d'Auquier also offered to exhibit. The code for the
cards was an ingenious and simple one. Mr. d'Auquier made slight
noises-such as coughing, sighing, or rustling of paper,-counting
between two such noises a number of Miss N.'s breathings which repre-
sented the card, after which the suit was similarly indicated.
Tests were applied with the object of ascertaining whether Miss N.
Digitized by Google
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [Feb., 1887.
was really hypnotised during these experiments, but they were incon-
clusive. There is, however, no reason to think that she was not in a
light hypnotic trance.
Johnny was undoubtedly a good hypnotic subject, but no thought-
transference,real or imitation,succeeded with him. In his normal state he
could read numbers in Mr. d'Auquier's eyes,but the movements which en-
abled him to do so were very obvious. Experiments were made with him
with a view to elucidating the mental processes involved in recognising,
in the hypnotic state, the spots to which hallucinatory photographs,
&c., were attached; also to ascertain if Johnny exhibited any
hyperacuity of vision such as that attributed to his subjects by
M. Bergson of Clermond-Ferrand. The indications of this in Johnny's
case were very slight. He appeared when hypnotised to distinguish
~he subjects of photographs prepared as microscopic slides rather better
than people with normal sight, but not in so clearly marked a degree
as to make it certain that there was any abnormality of vision. Ex-
periments were also made on rigidity and anresthesia induced in
Johnny's hands by passes while he was otherwise in a normal state.
In some of these the object was to observe the effect of different kinds
of passes, and in others the order in which different sensations disap-
pear. In others again the object was to ascertain whether, apart frem
suggestion, Mr. d'Auquier possessed any special power of influencing
his subject by will or otherwise. Mr. d'Auquier seemed able to affect
Johnny in at least a different degree from others, but it is difficult
altogether to exclude suggestion when,.as appeared to be the case here,
contact in making the passes is indispensable; and probably it would in
any case be impossible to make such experiments satisfactory e~cept
wit~ an operator whose bonafides could be relied on.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OJ!' THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-May I offer a few explanatory remarks in connection with Mr.
Hodgson's dissection of my report in January's J01J/T"IUlZ 1
After describing the first experiment, he proceeds to say : "1 suppose
that Eglinton held the slate alone for some time, during whichhe wrote upon
the slate, afterwards requesting F. to assist in holding it ; and this supposi-
tion is even suggested by the first part of Mr. Bentall's description." .
Although Mr. Hodgson's" supposition" is not an unfair inference from
my loosely-worded description, I beg to state that the meaning I intended to
convey is that the word "Heybridge" was asked for after F.'s band was
holding the slate against the table. We are both positive that such waa the
case, and I submit that my report states nothing which is incompatible with
such a view.
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1881.] Journal of SoC'iety for Psychical Research. 57
In criticising the phenomenon of the writing obtained between two sIa.tes
held above the table, Mr. Hodgson, after quoting from the report, g08ll on
to say, "I suppose that Eglinton first held the alates under the table, and
wrote the worda, and then no lOund of writing having been heard, held them
above the table, and asked F. to hold them with him."
In this caae I do not see how Mr. Hodgson can justify hiB " supposition,"
which is diametrically opposed to my plain statement, that " the sIa.tes were
held above the table in full view all the time." I bought the slates on
purpose for this experiment, and arranged it with F. beforehand, our IOle
object being to get writing between sIa.tes held above the table. Eglinton
did not hold the slates alone for a second, Frost extending his hand at the same
time, and taking the opposite comer. Had they gone underneath the table,
even for a moment, we should have looked upon the experiment 88 a
failure, and I should have noted the fact, as I have done in recording
another experiment in a passage which Mr. Hodgson has italicised. If Mr.
Hodgson will consider that we both entered upon this experiment deter-
mined to have writing above the table, that the slates were our own, and
produced only at the moment of experiment, and that Eglinton had not sole
possession of them for a second, he will agree that to "suppose" that we
allowed these slates to be manipulated under the table, and then were either
ignorant of the fact, or knowing it, suppreSBed it in writing the report,
involves a grave charge against either our veracity or sanity. I do no'
suppose for a moment that Hr. Hodgson wishes to make such a charge, but I
cannot see how any other view can be taken by anyone who reada Mr.
Hodgson's remarks on this incident.
With regard to the tumbler experiment, I may say we did not look under
the table at Eglinton's suggestion, but from curiosity.
I regret that my rough notes have not been kept. I made them on odd
scraps of pape.r at Eglinton's after each sitting. They recorded the dates,
the circumstances under which the manifestations occurred, and a copy of all
meBBBges. I need not say they were brief and not in a form fit for publica-
tion. The report was compiled from these from about 10 days to a fortnight
aIter.-I remain, &c.,
F. W. BENULL.
P.S.-Mr. Frost wishes me to state that he endorses the abo,·e remarka.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
Sm,-With regard to Mr. Hodgson's criticisms, which have just
appeared in the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, on the
reports of some slate-writing seances sent to the Society by MiBB ~ons and
myself (Mrs. L.,) and published in the June number, I must in justice to
Mr. Eglinton make a few remarks.
Concerning the incident where a prompt reply was obtained, in answer to
a question by Miss Symons as to ROW she could" best develop as a medium,"
Mr. Hodgson says, "I SUpp086 that the question was directly or indirectly
suggested by Eglinton." I must emphatically deny thiil supposition. Mr.
Eglinton did not suggest the question or lead up to it. The single ordinary
.latell on which writing was obtained were always those purchased by
Digitized by Google
58 Jo'u1vnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1887.
oUl'8elves, on the day of each sitting. They were privately marked by us, and
were examined thoroughly after every sentence of writing obtained, and pre·
viously to each question written by us.
The criticisms to which I refer consist 80 largely of supposition that they
appear written with the desire to cast doubt by all possible means on the
subject of slate-writingrather than to treat evidence in a fair and impartial
spirit. Where Miss Symons says, .. We locked the slate ourselves; it was
never removed from the table or out of our sight for one single inatant," the
statement is supposed to be erroneous, because Mr. Harrold Murray, Mr. E.
M. C., and Mr. F. Bent.all, who describe experiments.with the locked slate,
say it was held under the table.
Our accounts of the slate-writing seances were always written the same
day, or the next day after they took place, and we too have records of
occasions when the locked slate was held under the table to obtain writing;
but these occasions are quite distinct from the one when there was writing in
the locked slate without its removal from its position on the top of the table.
-Believe me, yours truly,
A. M. L., ABSOOiate S.P.R.
January 6th, 1887.
------------------------
These two letters were shown to Mr. Hodgson, who sends the following
remarks on them :-
To the Edito.T oj the JOURNAL OF THE SOOIETY FOR PSYOHIOAL RESEAROH.
SIR,-With regard to the two foregoing letters, I take the opportunity of
again emphasising what I have apparently failed to make clear in my
previous statements. But I shall first remark upon the second of the cases
to which Mr. Bentall specially refers.
I pointed out, both at the beginning and at the end of my criticisms, that
I did not profeM to "justify" my suppositions, in the way that Mr. BentsU
thinks I should be able to do. If the additional statements made by Mr.
Bentall, and endorsed by Mr. Frost, concerning the determination with which
they entered on this experiment, are correct, notwithstsnding the lapse of a
year and a-half since the incident occurred, I admit that the particular
supposition which I made becomes leBS likely. Had this important deter-
mination been mentioned by Mr. Bentall when he wrote his detailed report
a week Q\" two after the event, I should probably have preferred another
supposition.
I need not, however, dwell upon this point, since it is plain that the
chief difference between the writers of the foregoing letters and myself con-
cerns the t1"U8t which we are justified in placing upon certain positive state-
ments made by witneBBes under the circumstances involved in the cases
before us. I question the accuracy of certain statements made by Mrs. L.
and Mr. Bentall, whom I nevertheless suppose to be perfectly sane and
veracious. ~e writers do not believe that their bona fide recollections of
what occurred at the sittings can be so unreliable as I have supposed; but J
submit that the amount of reliance which can be placed upon such reool-
lections can be deternlined only by special investigation. Of course
I expected that my suppositions would, in the first instance at least,
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1·clt. 59
if not always, meet with the emphatic denial of the witnesses them-
selves; but I have thought it possible that readers of the JO'Urllal for
Jannary would see that in some ~es the writers of the reports quoted by
Mr. Davey have made positive statements which must have been as unreli-
able as I have supposed those of Mrs. L. and Mr. Benall to be. I was.
present at some of the sittings the records of which are quoted in the
Jounw}, for J anusry ; I knew how the tricks were performed; and Mr. Davey
and myself agreed concerning the chief mistakes made by the witnesses in
their reports. These mistakea-mainly instances of memory-illusion-are as.
great as those which I havA attributed to Mrs. L. and Mr. Bentall ; I have
no doubt that the persons who made them are veracious and sane; and I
have no reason to suppose that they are inferior as witnesses to Mrs. L. and
Mr. Bentall.
The " justification," therefore, which I offer for my suppositions which.
are "diametrically opposed" to certain statements of Mrs. L. and Mr.
Bentall, is that I know, from the kind of evidence to which I have referred,
that the true explanations of various conjuring performances which I have
seen are equally opposed to the statements of the uninitiated witnesses. TOo
make this contention yet clearer, I shall confine myself to a single instance,
and shall quote a passage from the report of Mrs. Y., (Journ.al for January,
p. 32), concerning Mr. Davey's locked slate.
"This test seemed to me perfect. The slate was under my own eye
on top of the table the whole time, and either my daughter's hand.
or my own was placed firmly upon it without the intermission
of even a second. Moreover, we closed and opened it ourselves."
This statement is erroneous. Similarly I have supposed the statement,
about Eglinton's locked slate, which Mrs. L. quotes in her letter, to be
erroneous-though not for the reason which Mrs. L. attributes to me, as 'the
reader may at once see on referring to the Supplement to the December
Jottr'lW, p. 5O'i. The question is not whether my particular supposition
concerning Eglinton's dealings with the locked slate is correct or not, a.
question which I think we have no means now of answering satisfactorily.
but whether lIuch statements as that quoted by Mrs. L. about the locked
slate may be as inaccurate as I have supposed. It was necessary for me to
make particularsuppositions for the purpose ofexhibiting the magnitude of the
errors which I had concluded might be made by the witnesses under the
peculiar circumstances involved; and the reports quoted by Mr. Davey are
enough to suggest that equally trustworthy witnesses a're liable to errors of
the magnitude which I thus exhibited.-I am, &c.,
RICHARD HODGSON.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-Mr. S. J. Davey informs us that the performances described in the
last number of the JO'Unu:tZ were" due to his own unaided powers as a slate-
writing conjurer." Consequently, if we believe Mr. Davey, we are bound to
believe that he can write not only on locked slates without touching them with
eitherof his hands, but also that he can write whatis in other men's thoughts,
and that too in a language of which he himself knows nothing. But this is
Digitized by Google
60 JO'l1/r'tw,l of Soc·iety for Psychical Resea1'ch. [Feb., 1881.
notall. He candetect the word that lurks in another mind and write it on a
locked slate, without himself being conscious of having done so. " He had
forgotten," says one of his witnesses, " that Mr. Padshah had asked him to
ask his name before tea." He had forgotten to do this part of his conjuring,
hut still the thing was done, and, as he himself testifies, by his own unaided
powem. ,
I presume Mr. Da.vey wrote his paper to expose the tricks of Spiritualistic
mediums, and I also presume that you admitted it into your Journal with
the same object in view. 'Now·I am a pl&in man and know nothing of
Spiritualism, except what I have read about it, and I have earnestly clung to
the hope that the S. P. R. would throw BOme light on the subject. But if
my only alternative to believing in Mr. Eglinton is to believe that Mr.
Davey's performances have been done by conjuring, I am placed, as it were,
between Scylla and Charybdis. In this predicament is it unreasonable for
me to ask that Mr. Davey will perform the same feats as are recorded in the
last number of the Journal, without the accompanying" tricks" of "electric
ahocks," "chattering of teeth," and so on; or at least without the
Spiritualistic circle 1 And will he do this in the presence of some well·
known Spiritualists, affording them proof sufficient to satisfy reasonable men
that he performa his feats by his own unaided powem as a slate-writing
conjurer1
That Mr. Davey is a medium of no ordinary power, his own account of
himself makes, I think, tolerably certain. If, therefore, he either cannot or
will not do what I propose, I must say for myself that if I am obliged to
auspect anyone of " imposture" it will not be Mr. Eglinton.-l am, your
obedient servant, GEORGE HARPUR,
Associate of the S.P.R.
[The above letter calls for a few remarks. (1) The writer seems to ignore
the possibility of failure of observation and memory in bond fide witnesses.
It is just because this possibility is BO often more or less ignored that it was
worth while for Mr. Davey to institute his experiments. (2) Mr. Hodgson has
been present during some of the sittings, and having been initiated into the
trick, has been able to observe the whole process. He is thus aware what the
phenomenareally were of which the descriptions puzzle Mr. Harpur,as they prob.
a.bly puzzled most of the readem of the January Journal. (3) It is
proposed to discuss the subject further in the Proceedings, and to point
(Jut where the chief failures of some of the witnesses occurred; though,
for obvious reasons, Mr. Da.vey does not wish to make his modus (or rather
1nodi) operandi generally known. (4) Mr. Harpur's remarks are of
importance, 8.8 showing that the question has at last been brought to the
decisive point. The descriptions of Mr. Davey's performances were printed to
show that bona fide records of tricks might closely resemble bond..fide records
which have been accepted as conclusive evidence for genuine occult phenomena;
and there could not be a better proof of the closeness of the resemblance, or of
the urgent need of its recognition, than the fact that on the strength of the
descriptions tIle tricks should be supposed to be genuine.-ED.]
The Rev. W. S. Grignon has been good enough to sanction the printing
of the following private letter :-
Digitize~ by Google
Feb., 1881.] Journal of Society for PBYchical Research.
The Grove, PluckIey, Kent,
January 5th, 1887.
61
DEAR MR. GURNEY,-I have heen reading with great interest, and on
the whole with much satisfaction, the "Statement of the Literary'
Committee" in the Journal. for this month. I hope it will succeed in.
keeping some of the pronounced Spiritualists in connectionwith the Society.
But will you allow me, as a very cordial, though, I fear, veryineflicient.
supporter of the Society's work, to point out wherein, as it seems to me, you
come short of meeting the fair claims of what I may call the Spiritualistic-
intereat 1 I do so as an impartial bystander. My own connection with
Spiritualism consists in subscribing to Light, and reading now and then a.
stray number of the Medium, and attending quite anonymously a public:
.eance occasionally-perhaps on an average once in three or four years. I
have further tried a few experiments at intervals of years in private seances.
and made myself fairly acquainted with the literature of the subject. With.
the phenomena of Mesmerism or Hypnotism I have been practically
familiar for thirty-six years past. Indeed, my recollections go back nearly
ten years earlier-to the days when Baron Dupotet was making a sensation.
in London by his experiments. My personal experience of seances and.
mediums has not been satisfactory; still, I have convinced myself that.
results are attained from time to time which are not explicable by a simple.
theory of imposture. Of course, as a believer in the Christian faith, I am in
one BellBe of the word a strong Spiritualist. Such is my standpoint. I fully
agree with the distinction you make between Spiritualism as a religion and as a..
science, and I feel very sure that the hold modern Spiritualism will ultimately
take, or fail to take, of the world will not depend upon strictly scientific.
evidence one way or the other. But it does strike me as a fair claim on the.
part of Spiritualists in our Society that scientific method should be strictly
and quite impartially applied to the arguments on both sides of the question.
Now, a fairly careful study of Mr. Hodgson's and Mrs. Sidgwick's com-
ments on cases of " slate-writing" has led me to gather that they build on the.
groURd that the popular idea of the value of human testimony is much too high,
the powerofobservation at the time, of recollection afterwards, and ofselection
of what ought to be observed and recollected. being much lower than it is com-
monly taken to be. Mr. Hodgson's explanations of psychographic cases in the.
Supplement to the December Journal. come sometimes to this: "You say you
tore a corneroffthe card ; no doubt you think so ; but I feel sure Eglinton tore
it off." " You tell me you had hold of those closed slates from the moment
you entered the room till you opened them yourself. My dear sir, you think
80, but in point of fact you let Eglinton get hold of them and do what he
would with them." Mr. Hodgson may be quite right. I say nothing to the.
contrary. I seem to myself to see clearly that, if he is right, our juries ought
to have" reasonable doubts" in many cases in which they have none. I do.
not quite see how your and Mr. Myers' most interesting researches in
Hypnotism can have any value at all in face of criticism framed on similar lines.
But let that pass. I will assume the method to be sound. With Mr. Hodgson.
and Mrs. Sidgwick I will smile at the blunders of the common herd, myself
included, who are so mistaken about the laws of evidence. But then I shall
Digitized by Google
62 Jou1'nal of Soc·iety for P8ychicctl Resea1·ch. [Feb., 1887.
also call upon those scientific purists in the matter of human testimony not
themselves to bring forward any evidence which will not bear their own
tests. The unscientific Illany may plead their ignorance, the scientific few
are bound by their own superiority. Noblesse obli{/e.
Now with this feeling I turn to Mrs. Sidgwick's article in the last
published volume of Proceedings. There, in the ihst paragraph of p. 47,
I find myself called on to accept, solely on Mrs. Sidgwick's observation
and recollection, a "discovery" which impugns Mrs. J"encken's truthfulness,
and this a discovery not of facts visible and palpable, but of mental states and
purposes of the medium. Into any conclusion about these the observer's own
mental state enters as a very important and very indeterminate factor. I
must say that it seems to me that this paragraph lVlould ha.ve been backed up
by a statement, as far as possible corroborated by the evidence of others, of
every detail; or, better still, altogether suppressed. As it stands it is not
science, but rhetoric. The same remark applies to the next paragraph. I
.am now in my sixty-fourth year and can remember all the disputes that
gathered round EIIiotson's dealings with mesmerism, and how savagely and
contemptuously the medical profession assailed the facts and the men who
brought them forward. To me the conclusion drawn by three American
doctors in 1851, even though supported by their alleged experience of Borne
unknown lady" who could exhibit all the phenomena. of the sounds," is worth
nothing as evidence. Then there is that extraordinary sentence describing
the" raps" as "loud double kpocks, acquiring a special sound from the table,
1I.00r, door, or other object on which they appear to be made." That knocks
acquire a special sound from the objects on which they are actually made, we
.all know; how they can be affected by objects on which they only appear to
be made, I fail to see, unless the difference lies in the fancy of the hearer.
Rather they appear to be made on different objects, because they actually
differ, and, on the theory of the three doctors, one is called on to believe
that the three sisters could not only produce sounds in the way suggested,
hut could modify those sounds almost at pleasure, could serve up table-raps,
door-raps, floor-raps, china-raps, &c., &c., out of their joints, much as the
pie-man in Pickwick served up "beefs," "muttons," or "weals" out of
kittens. Is there not something rhetorical rather than scientific ill the way
in which Mrs. Sidgwick slides over this serious difficulty 1 I am not surprised
that convinced Spiritualists have felt hurt at this tone which more or leBS
runs through the whole article, the more so because the rhetoric derives its
real force from the already existent popular conviction that a medium is of
course a. humbug.
Again, the admirable method adopted by the Society in dealing with
alleged phantasms hardly seems to have been applied here. So far as I
could judge from the Journo},,1 and Proceedings every witness was in &
perfectly friendly spirit allowed the opportunity of strengthening his evi-
dence, if he could, where it seemed weak. I may be mistaken, but I feel
that I am at all events impartial ~ and I cannot but say that the impression
made on me is that there is a strong tendency somewhere to criticise de-
structh'ely, and in no degree constructively, the testimony given to "physical
phenomena."
Feb., 1881.] Journal of, Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. 63
No weight seems to have been given to what strikes me as a singular fact,
that Eglinton, who, if a conjurer merely, must have for years been in daily
and hourly peril of exposure, has nevertheless, 80 far as I can learn, never
been .. exposed." Nor has even his method, or anyone of his methods, been
clearly explained. Why does not Mr.. S. J. Davey explain precisely how in
each case he (Mr. D.) deluded his visitors 1 Such explanations' would knock
Eglinton's business on the head, if he be a mere conjurer.
You say most truly in your" Statement" that" persons to whom Spirit-
ualism has long been a faith, will not care to respond to your appeal." I fear
that many to whom Spiritualism is far from being a faith will hesitate to
send their evidence into what will strike them as an atmosphere of hostile, or
at least, sub-hostile criticism, where not the judgment only, but the will, of
tAe critic will be against them. I could myself state certain simple obser-
vations and experiments which have served to convince me that the "physical
phenomena" of Spiritualism are not always explicable on the theory of
conjuring pur et simple. But, though I am toler(l.bly thick-skinned, I do not
care to be publicly told "My de(l.r friend, allow me to hint to you, with the
most diploID(l.tic politeness, that you are little better than a fool."
Pardon the length at which I have written, if, indeed, you have had
patience to read thus far. I venture to write thus because I esteem highly
the work the Society has done, and can do in the future. Just now the
Spiritualists and half-and-quarter-Spiritualists in the Society and out of it
are like a shy horse when he sees a ID(I.n approaching him whip in hand, not
to lash him of course, only to flick a troublesome fly oft" his flank; still he
does not like it. Could not II. quartem of com be somehowsubstituted for the
whip 1-Believe me, yours very truly,
WM.. S. GRIGNON.
THE SECOND VOLUME OF THE JOURNAL.
The second volume of the Journal ends with the Supplement to the
December number. Title-page and index are issued with this number.
Covers for binding may be purchased at Is. each, post free; application
to be made to the Assistant-Secretary, 14, Dean's Yard, S.W. The
price of the Y'olume, post free, will be lOs.
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
Members and Associates who may desire to procure this work at a
reduced price are requested to apply for it at once. It is published at
the price of one guinea. Every Member of the Society who has paid
his SUbscription for the current year can have a single copy for 5s. 3d.
and the cost of-carriage or postage; and every Associate who has paid
his sUbscripti<1n for the current year can have a single copy for 10s.6d.
and ~he cost of carriage or postage. The cost of postage per parcel post
is Is.; the cost of carriage within the Metropolitan district is 4d. or 6d.
according to distance. The book-post rate to the Continent or AmeriCA
Digitized ~yGoogle
64 Jou1'nal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1881.
• is 2s. 2d. Honorary and Corresponding Members can obtain the book
on the same terms as Members; and Honorary AssoCiates on the same
terms as Associates.
~ All applications for copies at the above special terms must be
made to the Assistant-Secretary, 14, Dean's Yard, S.W., b6Jor6 UUJ
end of Marcl~.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The joZZo1.oing additions have been made during Ute last three months.
LIGHT. VoL for 1886....................................•.....•...........London, 1886*
BAlU.GNON (P. Petrus) Etude du MagntStisme Animal. 2nd Edit.
. Paris, 1853
BINBT (Alfred, et Ch. FtSr6,) Le MagntStisme Animal •••••••••••••••Parla, 1881
DB SEU (Dr. G. Louis) Application du Somnambulisme MagntStique
au Diagnostic et au Traitement des Maladies de Nature••••••Paris, 1855
GmI~~~e~:u~.~••~.~~~~~~:••.•~~~~~.•~~~~~~:••?~~:P:~: 1881
J OLY (Prof. Henri) L'lmagination : Etude Physiologique .......••Paris, 1883
LAFoNTAINB (Ch.) MtSmoires d'un MagntStiseur. 2 vola• .........Paris, 1866
LBGuli (Gabriel) Urbain Grandier. 2nd Edit•........................Paris, 1880
LIEoEOIS (Prof. Jules) De la Suggestion Hypnotique dans sea Rapports
avec Ie Droit Civil et Ie Droit Crimillal ........................Nancy, 1885+
LucAS (Dr. Prosper) TraiM Philosophique et Physiologique de
l'H~rediM Naturelle. 2 vola. .......................................Paris, 1850
NOlZET (GtSntSral) MtSmoire sur Ie Somnambulisme et Ie MagntStisme
Animal .....................................................................Paris, 1854:
SENSO (Marc) La VtSriM sur Ie MaglltStisme Animal ............Lau"anne, 1881
TIBSOT (Prof. J.}L'Imagination: ses Bicnfait& et sea Egarements surtout
dans Ie Domaine du Merveilleux..................................••Paris, 1868
TOURETTE (Dr. Gilles de la) L'Hypnotisme et les Etats Analogues au
point de vue MtSdico-ltSgal •.•.......................................Paris, 1881
GltBSMANN (Gustav) Magnetismus und Hypnotismus ............Vienna, 1886+
KliNK (Dr. Hans) Ueber Beziehungen zwischen Hypnotismus und
Cerebraler Blutfiillung..........................................Wie8baden, 1885
" PrNenied by the Eclectic Publishing Company. t Pre&ented by the Author.
Digitized by Google
