{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sarah_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Sarah S NDE 2533","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sarah S NDE 2533  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sarah S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						807  Sarah S NDE  2533  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I remember falling to the ground. The next memory I had is I was under water looking up out of the water at a boat. The boat had a person in it with a bright light behind them, it was like when you are in a pool, you look up from under the water, and you can see the sunshine. I think it was a man. He was reaching out to me as I swam towards the surface. His hand was extended reaching towards me right before we made contact, I felt like I was not going to make it like I was drowning. That is when I was revived via CPR by my step-mother, and I vomited all over her.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Don't really know exact date  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         seizure  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Never, I was dead.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Things seemed to move in slow motion.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I am not really sure how to answer this.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The person was in a boat, it seemed like they were trying to help me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was behind the person in the boat.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     I was under water in a place I have never seen bofore  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared, I thought I was drowning.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I grew up Lutheran, but only attended as a child did not attend around that time    

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I still believe in God, I always have  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My step-mother and I became very close after she saved my life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The person I had seen I have never seen prior to this experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took a few days to tell my step mother and then years to tell some of my friends.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was a teenager I really didn't care or believe in these things.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had the feeling of drowning and when I came to immediately after I vomited like a drowning victim would.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It just seemed so real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sarah_s_nde.html