{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 5780 4444 3126","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_28_january_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 January 28 1888","mylang":"de"}
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Jt6718 17th, 1887.
The twenty-fifth General Meeting was held at the Rooms of the
Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, on June 17th,
1887.
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT IN THB CHAIR.
Mr. F. W. H Myers read a paper on "Active and Passive
Automatism-the Dlilmon of Socrates," which it is proposed to publish
in the next number of the ProC6eding,.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
January 28fA, 1888.
The twenty-sixth General Meeting was held at the Westminster
Town Hall, on January 28th, 1888.
PROFESSOR SIDGWICK IN THE CHAIR.
The Chairman, in opening the Meeting, spoke of the great and
irreparable 1088 which the Society had suffered through the sudden
death of their President, Professor Balfour Stewart. It had been of
the greatest advantage to them that one bearing so high and un-
disputed a reputation as a physicist had bP.en willing to lead and direct
tlaeir endeavours to penetrate the obscure region of psychical research.
Of the work that had been done under Professor Balfour Stewart's
leadership it was not now the time to speak in detail: but all who
had wa.tched his management of their affairs would agree that it was
marked by three characteristics :-it was thoroughly fearless, it was
uniformly circumspect, and it was genuinely sympathetic. He believed
it was only by this combination of qualities that they could hope
to succeed in the difficult task that they had undertaken: and it
was because they could hardly hope to find them again combined
in a President of Professor Balfour Stewart's scientific eminence
that he had spoken of his loss as irreparable.
Mr. F. W. H. Myenl communicated two remarkable instances of
"Automatic Messages," which will be embodied in a future paper.
Mr. Edmund Gurney read part of a paper on "Appearances, &c.,
B
Digitized by Coogle
2 Proceeding8 of General MeetVng.
closely following on Death," which it is proposed to publish in
the next number of the Procwiing•.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
April 13th, 1888.
The twenty-seventh General Meeting was held at the Westminster
Town Hall, on April 13th, 1888.
PROPBSSOR SIDaWICK IN THB OHAIR.
Dr. A. T. Myers gave an account of Ie Some Experiments on
Thought-transference and Independent Clairvoyance at Munich." It
is hoped that a full record of these experiments may shortly be
communicated to us by one of the principal investigators.
Mrs. Sidgwick read part of a paper on Ie Premonitions," which
it is proposed to publish in the next number of the Procuding•.
Digitized by Coogle
Recent Experiments in Hypnotism. 3
I.
RECENT EXPERIMENTS IN HYPNOTISM.*
By EDMUND GUDBY.
During the past autumn and winter I have carried out along course of
hypnotic experiments at Brighton, with the invaluable assistance of Mr.
G. A. Smith (designated in this paper as S.), who was throughouii the
hypnotiser. The principal classes of experiment ha.ve been two:
(1) that which may be described as inteUigem tJUtomatism, which
occupied a large part of my paper in Part XI. of these Pr~eding,
on "Peculiarities of Certain Post-Hypnotic States"; and (2) the pro-
duction of local anresthesia a.nd rigidity by the proximity of the
operator's hand, without contact, and without conscious expectation of
the effect on the part of the " subject."
I will brie8y describe the results obtained, drawing attention to
novel or important features.
INTBLLIGBNT AUTOMATISM.
Several more experiments were made on the writing, in the waking
state, of words previously impressed upon the "subject" in the hypnotic
condition, and, as usual, he appeared totally· ignorant of the word
written, though aware of the act when hypnotised aga.in a few minutes
later. In this way Hull wrote the word bottle, and only thought there
might be a b in the writing as he fancied he could trace the formation
of that' letter in the movements of the planchette. Collingham, in
the hypnotic condition, was told to write a word beginning with M.
Instantly wakened, and made to read aloud with his hand upon plan-
chette, the words muck muck were produced. Offered ten shillings to
say what the writing was, he could only feel certain about the letter M,
and only decided on that letter after hesitating between it and C. It
was sometimes found that the word impressed in the hypnotic state
was remembered on waking, which of course frustra.ted the experiment.
This difficulty was overcome by engaging the IC subject's" a.ttention
with a little story immediately previous to waking him; then remem-
branCe of this story would survive, but the word which preceded it
appeared to be obliterated from his mind. 'lhe planchette reproduced
it, however. Thus, A. Nye was told to write the word bread, and
• Some of these experiments were described by Mr. Gurney at an informal meeting
of the Society beld on December 2nd, 1887.
B 2
Digitized by Coogle
Recent Experiments in HypMtism..
then, after a pause of a few seconds, was told about a very high tide
which had damaged the sea wall. Awakened immediately afterwards, he
could recall the narration of these incidents, but nothing more. But set
to the planchette, he wrote the wo~d bread, and declared that he could
not say whether the instrument had produced more than scribble.
Mdlle. Caron remembered, on awaking, that she had been told to
write, and knew that she had written the word Brighton, as directed.
But on the experiment being repeated with the word Paria, with an
injunction that the word was to be forgotten, a perfect success was
attained; nor did a money bribe induce a revival of the idea. Miss
Cass was told to write her name backwards. She placed the letters in
her surname correctly, but the Christian name, Edith, was somewhat
illegible, though it terminated with the initial .E clearly enough. Tigar
wrote the word Brighton backwards, reading excellently meanwhile.
Some" subjects" could not be caused to write the word itself, even
though the necessary condition of forgetfulness was brought about.
They simply made scrawls with the planchette. But no doubt with
more hypnotisation the more definite result would have been obtained
with them. Thus, in an experiment with H. Nye, cousin to the former
"subject," DO true of the word he had been ordered to write seemed
present to his consciousness when he was awakened, and the application
of his hand to planchette only caused that machine to make frantic
dashes and wild scribbles. A similar result occurred on a second trial.
But a third one was successful, the word Thursday being plainly
written, in accordance with the hypnotic suggestion.
On a few occasions foreign words were used. They were distinctly
pronounced to the subject, who was then awakened and made to read as
usual, being left to write the word according to his own ideas of spelling.
Hull wrote Synatus for Senatus, and Totam for Totem. The word
Kerkuare having been slowly spelt twice to Parsons, he ",rote tha word
correctly ; and Kent wrote Shanglw,i after the Dl\me had been three
times said to him. The Greek word APAXMH was shown to Hull when
awake, and he was asked to look at it well. He was then hypnotised
and told to write the word. Immediately awakened, and set to the
planchette, with a book to read aloud, he correctly wrote the word.
Subsequently offered a sovereign to say what the writing consisted of
he was unable to do so.
A large number of experiments were made in the working out of
sums by the "secondary intelligence"-the sum being given to the
" subject" while he was in the hypnotic state, and the answer being.
written down by him automatically with a planchette, while he was in
the normal state, and wholly unaware both of the act of reckoning and
of what he was writing. Nine" subjects" in all were employed:
severa.l others who were easily hypnotisable were of no use for this par-
Digitized by Coogle
Recent Experiments in Hypnotism. 5
ticular form of experiment, as they remembered when awake, some-
times easily and sometimes with some effort, words. and sentences
addressed to them when hypnotised. The method employed was for S.
to hypnotise the "subject" by making a few passes over his eyes, and
then to give him a simple sum, usually in multiplication, to do, waking
him suddenly the instant after. On waking, the .. subject" never had
any recollection of the sum, or of any order-or, indeed, of having
been addressed at all. He was then made to place his right hand on
the planchette, his attention being occupied by reading aloud, or
occasionally by counting backwards, leaving out alternate numbers, or
some similar device. The planchette m,eanwhile was writing. In most
of the cases where the writing did not prove to be the correct answer
to the sum, the figures were sufficiently near the mark to make it
apparent that an intelligent attempt had been made to work out the
given problem. The paper and instrument were always kept concealed
from the "subject's" eyes, and he was never told what the movements
of the planchette produced. As a rule, he was afterwards offered a
sovereign to say what the writing was, but the reward was never
earned. On re-hypnotisation, he recalled the whole process-a clear
indication that we have had to de with "secondary intelligence," not
with unconscious cerebration.
The sums given were simple, as most of the" subjects" were inex-
pert at mental arithmetic.
There were 131 sums in which three figures had to be multiplied by-a
single one; of these 52 were quite right, 28 had three figuresin the answer
right, 18 had two figures right, and 14 had one figure right only, whilst
12 were quite wrong, and seven were either so il~egible and muddled as
to be undecipherable, or only a small stroke or curve was made
at all. There were 75 sums in which two figures had to be
mnltiplied by one (the multiplier never exceeding 12). and of these
41 were worked quite correctly, 2 had three figures in the answer
right, 9 had two figures right, 4 had only one figure right, and in
19 instances the pencillings were illegible. In some cases of this class
the sum itself was correctly written, but no attempt was made to put
the answer.
There were 2 sums in which four figures had to be multiplied by
one; both were correctly done. A few sums of other kinds were also
given: of 14 simple addition (of about the following difficulty: 4 +7 +
9+11 +13) six were done correctly; two were quite wrong, and the
remaining six were either not done at all, or the answers were illegible
scribbles. Of 5 multiplication money sums (£ s. d. and farthings x
by a sinsle figure) 3 were worked correctly,-thus Wells correctly
multiplied 12s. 3fd. by 8, repeating "God Save the Queen" meanwhile,
with every other word left out-&nd the other was indecipherable;
• Digitized by Coogle
6 .Recent Experimenta in Hypnotiwm..
and one money subtraction sum (shillings, pence, and farthings) was
correctly done.
Another case illustrates the very distinct memory, on re-hypnotisa-
tion, of what had been written. Wells was told to work out the sum,
" 13 loaves at 5d. each," and instantly woke as usual. He wrote, "13
loaf at 5d. is 5s. 5d." When hypnotised again, and &l!ked to say what
he had written, he replied, "13 loaf-oh, I've put loaf instead of
loavea-at 5d. is 5s. 5d. I've written the 13 twicesee but I
crossed it out." He then proceeded, by a long roundabout process, to
work the problem out, arriving at the correct answer again.
Trials to get drawings executed were not successful. Parsons was
told to draw an elephant, (February 18th,) but the lines and curves
produced were probably much less successful attempts to delineate
that animal than a normal blindfolded boy would have made.
Some more experimentAl were m¢e in getting writings referring
to real events. In the hypnotic state the" subjects" were told to write
something that had occurred during the past week or month,
and then instantly awakened-when they would fulfil the com-
mand through planchette. Thus Hull wrote, Fire at BIWlm.-
and then asked for something that had occurred a.t Brighton
during the last month, he wrote: Harbowr Lights has bem
playecl-and something else indecipherable. The same evening
Tigar wrote Mail Ro--meaning to refer, as he 'explained in his
next hypnotic trance, to an alleged mail robbery in the town. Parsons
wrote (December 10th) Head and Toothache, in response to the request
for something that had happened in the town during the last two
months. Curiously enough, he had been complaining of these pains
a minute or two before, yet he had no idea what he had written, nor
did the offer of a sovereign assist him in remembering. The
same "subject" wrote Americcm draw. teeth, referring to a quack
dentist who was publicly performing at Brighton. Parsons wrote Fire,
referring no doubt to a big fire which had taken place in the town a
few nights before. Another time he wrote "Benley fire," which was
also correct, for a fire had recently occurred at the shop of a tradesman
named Bentley. Miss Cass, with whom a trial of the same sort was
made, was more communicative, for she wrote, "J went to a ball";
then there appears BOrne indecipherable writing, followed by a fresh
start, and the information, "I went to a ball and had nearly all the
dancing the young men." UpOD inquiry, these assertions were found
to be true; and her employer, who was present, told us of a special
reason why she would not have mentioned the fact in her normal state.
The same" subject" was told to write dowb anything striking that
occurred in the room. She was then woke, and made to count the
numbers from 50 downwards, alternately, with S. After a minute
Digitized by Coogle
&ce-n.t ExperimtmtB in Hypnotism. 7
or two I turned out a gas burner. She immediately wrote, The gfJII
wme out. Re-hypnotised, she remembered what she had written, and
knew that I had turned the gas out; but when woke again, she did
not know what she had written, though offered a reward, as usual,
though still aware that I had turned the gas out during the counting.
In a similar way she wrote the name of the first person who left the
room, having been told to do so when in the hypnotic state.
Hull was told to write a couple of lines from any verse he knew.
Made to read, and placed in contact with the planchette, he
wrote :-
Attend, aU ye who lilt to hear our twble England'. praile
I tell of tAe thrice [illegibld] clv.tU Me uwought in ancient [illegible].
The customary offer of a sovereign failed to induce him to say what he
had written, but when hypnotised he sleepily gave the lines.
Another form of experiment was to tell the" subject" to count the
number of times a certain letter occurred in a given verse. Thus,
Wells was told to write down the number of times the letter E occurred
in the verse-
Mary had a little lamb,
Itall.eece waa white aa anow,
Everywhere that Mary went
The lamb waa sure to go-
and then, after saying the verse once quickly through to show that he
knew it, he was instantly awakened and given Tie Bits to read. Whilat
thus engaged he wrote, TII.IJ letter E comtJ8 11 timu -which is right.
The same experiment was tried with Parsons, who also was kept
occupied by being set to read immediately upon waking; but he was
not so accnrate, and wrote down" 12." He was completely successful,
however, when told to write the number of E'B in
God ave our gracioua Queen,
Long live our noble Queen,
God ave the Queen,
and wrote 11, having read excellently the whole time.
Some experiments were made in which the subject's rhyming
faculties were put to the test. Wells, in the hypnotic state, was told
to make a rhyme to TM tide is 'IJ617J high to-night, and was then
instantly woke and made to read. He wrotiP, It is (J 'IJ617J lowly Bight.
A second attempt would have been satisfactory if he had not made
a blunder in his writing. He was told to make a rhyme to The foMB
Me ~ and lcicking. Awakened and made to read as usual, he
wrote, I hop. 1M BtJa a licking. He corrected himself, however, OD
being re-hypnotised, and volunteered the statement that he had left
out some words, and meant to write, I hope they'll gi1J6 eM BtJa a
licking. Similar trials suc~ed with Miss Casso She had a Rtrong
Digitized by Coogle
8 .Recent Experiments in Hypnotism.
objection to reading aloud, and could not be induced to do so; she
was, however, obviously absolutely ignorant of the words fonned by
the planchette, though the usual bribes were brought to bear. Her
hand produced the following couplets, of which the respective first
lines had been given her when in the hypnotic state :-
The lun is shining in the west,
And I try to do my best.
The sun is rising in the east,
And, oh, you are a little beast.
I like to go to sleep at night,
And dream about my little kite.
Two experiments of a slightly different sort were made with this
"subject." She was told, when hypnotised, that when she woke up a
newspaper would be held in front of her, with a pencil mark against a
certain line. She was to count the number of letters in that line,and write
the information down. She waswoke,and,the newspaper being held before
her, she was seen to be counting. Upon my asking what she was doing
she laughed, and said, "Counting." Asked "what for," she said, "I don't
know-for fun." She presentlywrote 89-whichwas the number of letters
contained in the marked line. Of course the planchette was concealed
from her eyes, as on all other occasions, and, as usual, she could not say
what the writing was. I offered her three sovereigns to try to recollect,
and tried to make her feel that I really want6d her to say, but though
she tried hard, and seemed vexed with herself, the information was not
forthcoming. This experiment was repeated, with another marked line
in the newspaper. This time she wrote 42, which was again right.
When the planchette was just beginning to write the figures, and when it
was clear she had just finished counting, I asked her how many letters
there were; she thought for a second, then laughed, and said, "I
forget." Meanwhile, the pIanchette was putting them down on the
other side of the interposed screen.
On two occasions the orders given were not carried ou~ something
else being written instead. This took place each time in connection
with sums, when the figures were probably forgotten, or the "subject's"
mind got confused-the impulse to write, however, still existing.
Parsons, told to multiply 456 by 7, wrote the first figure in
the answer-2, and then went on with God save the King-which
phrase was in the article he was reading at the time. His explanation
when next hypnotised was that he was "put out" by S. singing
the refrain in his ears, but upon being assured that this had not occurred,
he said, "Oh, I wrote God .ave the King for the sake of writing
something." He could give no reason for writing these particular
words, however, except that he pitched on them as one does on any
Digitized by Coogle
Recent Experiments in Hypnotimn. 9
stray sentence, in "trying a new pen" for instance. The oUier case
was with Kent, who sometimes recollected, when awake, orders given
to him when entranced, and with whom, therefore, the device of
telling a story after giving the sum was adopted. He was told to
multiply 444 x 6, and then informed that some sports, polo matches,
&c., had been taking place at a park in Brighton. Woke immediately
after this and questioned, he slowly and by degrees remembered about
the sports, but nothing about the sum. Then set to the planchette
and supplied with a book to read, he wrote, Have '!Iou ,een tItS
BJKYrl81-declaring when questionf'd that he had no idea what had been
written, though the usual bribe of a sovereign was offered to him. He
could only say that he thought the planchette commenced its work with
" a capital C."
Other experiments showed the segregation of the secondary from
the primary intelligence, even in cases where they were similarly
employed. Parsons was told to write wltat he was reading
about when next awake. Woke and made to read an article
on The CUltomB of RUlnan Club" he wrote RUllion club.-and was
as usual unable, in spite of the offer of a reward, to say what he had
written. Re-hypnotised, he said he had written "Russian clubs," but
could not say why, and would not admit that he had been reading aloud.
Again, he was told that, when awake and reading, he was to write how
he was feeling at the time. He was woke, and was given an article,
Thieves in Paris, to read. Whilst reading, he wrote .tealing my watch,
and immediately clapped his hand to his pocket with a look and cry of
alarm. Re-hypnotised, he denied reading, but remembered what he had
written, and gave an account of a man with a clay pipe and his
hands in his pockets standing near, who might, he thought, have had
designs upon his watch. He observed that he would keep a sharp eye
on him and take precautions. Similar experiments were made with
Tigar the same evening with somewhat similar results. He wrote How to
wmrilog when reading au article on ventriloquism; and as a deseription
of his feelings, when reading at another time, he put wane .leeP1l-
interpreting this when next hypnotised as "warm and sleepy." Parsons
also wrote More N01J6liBti Blunder. whilst reading an article with that
heading, and Hull wrote BrokM& Hea.rts when reading upon that sub-
ject, but he differed from Parsons in knowing, when next hypnotised,
what he had been reading about, as well as what he had writt.en.
APPLICATION OF THB MBMORY-TEST TO A STATB THAT 8gEMED
NEARLY NORMAL.
Parsons was hypnotised and told that he could open his eyes and see
things-though still remaining in the same state. He was helped and
encouraged to bring his upturned eyeballs down into their natural
Digitized by Coogle
10 Recent Experiments in Hypnotism.
position. This achieved, he looked natural, butsaid that, except for being
able to see, he felt just the same as before-" living in a dream," as he
expressed it. He had previously observed that the two states-normal
and hypnotic-were like living on different days-Sa.turday and Sunday
(Sunday the normal state). He said it was still Saturday when his
pupils had come down, but more liks Sunday. In this condition he
was able to read, but he performed the task more slowly than usual,
and said he felt" not all there." After reading a paragraph, his eyes
were again closed as before, and he was then woke completelyas usual.
But only one word of what he had read could be recalled, and be was
very uncertain about that; he recollected distinctly, however, a para-
graph that he had recently read in the normal state, and felt satisfied
that that was the last one read. Again hypnotised, he had full
recollection of the paragraph read ill the hypnotic state with open
eyes.
Similar experiments were made with Tigar with like results.
While in the hypnotic state, he was made to lift his eyelids and
bring the pupils down, and was then set to read, which he accomplished
as well as when awake. He said he could not define any difference
between this state and the state he was in when on duty through th~
day, except that he felt more drowsy. He was then completely
awakened with a clap, whereupon he forgot that he had been reading.
NEGATIVE HALLUCINATIONS.
·Parsons, in the hypnotic state, was told that on waking he would
not see anyone in the room, though he would see the furniture and
everything else as usual. Four persons were in the room. but, upon
waking, Parsons appeared to think himself alone, and settled himself
comfortably by the fire with a book. Mr. Myers coughed behind him,
when he looked towards the door and called out, "Come in, Mr.
Smith." Mr. Myers then made other noises, when Parsons began to
look frigbtened and get excited. He hunted about the room, jumped
on a chair and peeped over a screen, seized the tongs, I,nd yelled for S.
in great alarm. Re-hypnotised, he asked where everybody had been
to, and upon being assured. that no one bad left the room, he said, "I
don't like to contradict you, but you weren't bere."
Later in the evening, he was told that on waking he would be tUGf.
When woke he paid no attention to remarks addressed to him, nor to
loud claps, calls, &c. Mr. Myers talked to him, but he only looked
surprised and puzzled, and then wagged his jaw, asking Mr. Myers what
he went like that for. Told to "sleep" (an order which usually bad
effect) he only coughed and imitated the gesture accompanying the
order. On repetition of the word, with a pressure on the bead ~nd
over the eyes, he fell into trance.
Digitized by Coogle
Rec8'nt Experiments in Hypnotism. 11
Later, he was told that on waking he would Mar but would not
IIe6 anyone. When woke, he answered qUNtions and looked about to
see where the voices came from. Mr. Myers spoke to him, and gave
him his hand, upon which Parsons looked intensely surprised. Mr.
Myers led him up to S., who also gaV'e him his band. Parsons still
continued looking up and around, with his eyes apparently focUBBed fOI
a long distance. He felt S.'s head, and showed astonishment, saying~
" I can feel you and hear you, but where Me you'" He affirmed that he
" never had such a feeling," and wandered about, moving his head from
side to side with a very peculiar dazed look.
POST-HYPNOTIC HALLUCINATIONS.
Parsons was hypnotised, and told that in seven minutes he would
be swimming in Brill's Baths. It was then 8.47. He was instantly
woke, and other "subjects" were dealt with. At 8.53 Parsons took
a header on to the floor and swam vigorously in the dust, first on his
side, then making chest strokes, and finally kicking along the floor on
his back, loudly calling his friends by name meanwhile.
Far more interesting instances of post-hypnotic hallucination are
the following, due to the kindness of Mrs. Ellis, of 40, Keppel-street
(an Associate of the Society for Psycbical Research), who permitted her
maid, Zillah, to be the "subject" of experiment.
In the evening of June 27th, 1887, Zillah was hypnotised by S., and
about a couple of hours were spent over various experiments. At the
end of the evening S. told Zillab, when in the trance, that she would
8M him at 12 o'clock next day. She was then woke, and appeared to
have no knowledge of what had been said to her. The result of the
experiment was not known until July 6th, when Mrs. Ellis told S. that
on Tuesday, the 28th, she and Zillah were out shopping, when a little
before 12 o'clock the latter remarked that a paBBer-by reminded her of
S. Mrs. Ellis made no special comment at the time,but later on referred
to the subject again, when Zillah said, "Oh, I saw Mr. Smith just now.'1
Further questioned, she declared that she had seen him on the top of
an omnibus; that he made no sign of recognition, but she knew him
by the look in his eyes. For a short time before this description was
given Mrs. Ellis had observed a strangeness in Zillah's manner, IIolld
thought she had a slightly hypnotic look; she took no interest in the
purchases, though they were articles of dress for herself. And for a
little time afterwards, too, she seemed so odd that Mrs. Ellis remon-
strated with her for her want of interest. Soon after describing what
she had seen, however, she became perfectly natural again.
The next experiment was made on the evening of July 6th, with
much more pronounced results. S. hypnotised Zillah and told·her that
she would see him standing in the room at throo o'clock next afternoon,
Digitized by Coogle
12 .&cent Expe1'iments in Hypnotism.
and that she would hear him ..
..all her twi-::e by name. She was told
that he would not stop many seconds. On waking, as on the former
occasion, she had no notion of the ideas impressed upon her. Next day
the following letter was received from Mrs. Ellis :-
"40, Keppel'street, RUBBell-square, W.C.
"July 7th, 3.15 p.m.
.. DEAR MR.. SIIIITH,-I am sure you will be pleased to know that your
experiment of giving Zillah the hallucination has been moat successful. She
has never been told of the former hallucination when she saw you on
Tuesday. To-day I do not think I have mentioned even your name to her.
In fact, I would say I am quite Bure I have not oven distantly alluded to you,
much leaa to any hallucination, if it were not that one must not say one is
'sure' ofanything. Howe\'er, she came upstairs just now, aboutfive minutes
past three, looking ghcutly and startled, and said 'I ha\'e seen a ghost!' I
aaaumed intenlle amazement, and she said she was in the kitchen cleaning
some silver, and suddenly she heard her name called sharply, twice over-
Zillah I in Mr. Smith's voice. She said, 'And I dropped the spoon 1 was
rubbing and turned and saw S. without his hat, standing at the foot
of tho kitchen stairs. I saw him as plain as I see you,' she said, and
looked very wild and vacant. So I pi7LcMd her and said I believed she was
hypnotised j but she was sensitive. Don't you think this is very
wonderful! I have not told her a word about your hallucination command.
"A. A. ELLIS."
The third and last experiment with this" subject" was made on
Wednesday evening, July 13th, 1887. On this occasion S. told her,
when hypnotised, that the next afternoon at three o'clock she would
see me come into the room to her. She was further told that I would
keep my hat on, and would say, "Good afternoon"; that I would
further remark, "It is very warm"; and would then turn round and
walk out. These hallucinations were suggested in another room, where
Zillah was taken for the purpose, and neither Mrs. Ellis nor any other
person, except S. and myself, knew their nature. Zillah as usual
knew nothing about them on waking. On the second day after, the
following letter was received from Mrs. Ellis:-
" 40, Keppel-street, Ruaaell-square, W.C.
" July 14th.
"DEAR MR. SMITH,-Mr. Gurney did not ask me to write in case there
was anything to communicate with respect to Zillah, but as I suppose you
gave her a post-hypnotic hallucination, probably you will wish to hear of it.
1. will give you the story in her own words, as I jotted them down
immediately afterwards-saying nothing to her, of course, of my doing 80.
She said: 'I was in the kitchen washing up, and had just looked at the
clock, and was startled to see how late it was-·five minutes to three-when
I heard footsteps coming down the stairs-rather a quick, light stop_nd I
Digitized by Coogle
Recent Expervrnents in Hypnotiwm. 13
thought it was Mr. Sleep' (the dentist whose rooms are in the house), 'but
as I turned around, with a dish mop in one haRd and a plate in the other, I
saw BOme one with a hat on, who had to stoop as he came down the last
step, and there was Mr. Gurney! He was dressed just as I saw him last
night, black coat and grey trousers, his hat on, and a roll of paper, like
manuscript, in his hand, and he said, "Oh, good afternoon." And then he
glanced all round the kitchen, and he glared at me with an awful look, as if
he was going to murder me, and said, "Warm afternoon, isn't it 1" and
then, "Good afternoon'~ or " Good day," I'm not sure which, and turned
and went up the stairs again, and after standing thunderstruck a minute, I
ran to the foot of the stairs, and saw like a boot just disappearing on the top
step.' She said, 'I think I must be going crazy. Why should 1 always see
something at three o'clock each da.y after the seance 1 But I am not nearly
80 frightened' as I was at seeing Mr. Smith.' She seemed particularly
impressed by the 'awful look' Mr. Gurney gave her. I presume this was
the hallucination you gave her.
" AIlrBLIA. A. ELLIS."
Another case, though a failure, had great interest. Miss Cass was
hypnotised and told that I should call on her at lIon a particular day.
She had no recollection of this on being woke. On the day named
she showed some unMSiness as the hour arrived, but no notice was
taken of this, and certainly no hallucination took place. But at about
lIon the ensuing night (the time being ascertained by the fact of one
of her companiona going to her room after she had been some little
time in bed) she had a very vivid dream of my addressing her in the
street, and saying something about having called on her, or meaning to
call on her.* Some evenings later, when her hand and that of one of
her companions, wu on the planchette, the instrument wrote: "Mr.
Gurney will call to see me at 11." She professed, and no doubt
honestly, complete ignorance of what the writing was, till she read it.
REMOVAL OF PAIN BY SUGGESTION.
Parsons one evening complained a good deal towards the latter
part of the evening of headache and toothache. Before leaving, S.
hypnotised him and assured him that they would speedily vanish, and
that he would in a few minutes be free from pain. He was then woke,
and the few upward passes and light touches, usually performed at the
end of hypnotic experiment.s, were gone through. After this process
Parsons volunteered the information that he not only felt quite awake,
but his pains had gone, and he cheerfully departed. Questioned on a
subsequent evening, he stated that he had no return of them.
• UnfoTtunate1y the record of this incident, carefully made at the time, has been
mialaid. It gave a fuller account than the above, which, however, is correct as far as
it goee.
Recent Experiments in Hypnotism.
PRODUCTION 01' LOCAL RFJ'BCTS BY THE PROXIMITY 01' THB OPERATOR'S
HAND.
Experiments of this Dlost important cl&118 have been already described
in these Proceedings.... In outline,the 'IIwdUB operandi has been asfollows :
The "subject" is made to put his arm through a thick screen, extend-
ing high above his head, and to spread his ten fingers on a table in front
of him. The fingers are thus completely conceal!!d from his view, and
the operator's hand is held, without contact, at a distance varying
from about a third to three quarters of an inch, over one or another
of them, according to my selection-with the result that in a very
large majority of cases the finger so treated, and that finger alone,
becomes rigid, and insensible to extremely severe treatment in the way
of stabs, burns, and electric shocks. From my knowledge of the
"subjects," and of the circumstances, I regard simulation as prac-
tically out of the question. But this is not really important, for the
hypothesis of simulation has no application to the frequent cases
where the rigidity was tested bifon the anesthesia. The" subject" is
told to double his fist; and no desire to deceive could have taught him
which particular one of his ten digits was to remain recalcitrant.
In the recent series there have been 160 experiments of the d~
scribed type with five" subjects." In all these cases I held my hand,
in the same position as S.'s, over one of the remaining nine fingers.
In 124 cases S. alone produced the effect intended. In 16 cases S.
and I both succeeded; and in 13 cases I succeeded, and S. failed.
In the remaining 7 cases, no effect at all was produced. In 11
of the cases where I succeeded and S. failed, the effect
was not complete-there was either partial insensitiveness, or
ptJrlial stiffness, or complBu insensitiveness but no stiffness. In 6 of
the cases where S. and I both succeeded, the effect produced by me
was only slight. One of my successes of this sort was obtained when
the subject had been told which finger was to be operated on. As a
rule, telling the subject in this way had no effect; for 11 such experi-
ments were made, the above instance being the only successful one-
though light contact and stroking was frequently resorted to to en-
courage the suggested idea if possible.
The 7 experiments which were complete failures were all
carried out under some exceptional conditions. Two of them were the
first two trials with a subject who had not been experimented upon for
several months. In three others S. was holding his hand in an unusual
position. And in the remaining two, S. held his hand over one finger,
• See VoL I., pp. 257-60; Vol. II., pp. 201-5; VoL III., pp. 643-9. For a
diacuuion of the subject, _ the concluding portion of my paper in this number, on
.. Hypnotism and 1'e1epathy."
Digitized by Coogle
Recent Experiments in Hypnotism. 15
willing meanwhile that the effect should appear in another. Apart
from the "screen" experiments, to be mentioned immediately, these
7 were the only absolute failures; but there were some cases where, on
the first application of the test, the effect was not very apparent-the
result being brought out with a little more perseverance.
The finger operated upon was generally restored to its normal con-
dition by reverse passes, made with contact-about 20 being the average
number required. Most of the attempts to annul the effect without
contact were inconclusive. Sometimes the effort was successful, and in
a few instances very distinctly so, but in other cases the process took
so much time that contact was eventually resorted to. I frequently
tried by stroking the finger, to uado the effect which 8. had produced;
but I succeeded on only one occasion.
On some occasions Dr. Myers, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, and others,
held their hands over one of the fingers, without, however, effecting
the usual results-except in one case, when Mr. F. W. H. Myers pro-
duced marked insensitiveness in the first joint of the finger, while 8.
produced no effect. The subject, however, picked out 8.'s finger as
one that "felt a little stiff," and he was not aware himself of any
change in the other.
On a few occasions it happened that, besides the intended finger
being a.fFected, an adjacent one, or sometimes two, also became
insensitive or rigid-or both. The unea:pected results always appeared,
however, in fingers adjoining the one operated upon, but the event
seldom happened at all. With some subjects it was never possible-at
least in the few trials made with them-to affect one finger only. The
entire hand would become insensitive or stiff, no finger being more
markedly affected than the others. Of course, such" subjects" were not
available for the more delicate trials here recorded.
With the view of ascertaining in what way the results would be
affected if the temperature of 8.'s hand was reduced, he sometimes
buried it for a few minutes in a bowl of broken ice, before holding it
over the destined finger. This device is not a very satis-
factory one; for when the hand is removed from the ice and quickly
dried, it soon resumes its former temperature, and as it takes a time
varying from one minute to three decidedly to affect the finger, the
effect of the ice has greatly diminished before the experiment is com-
pleted. Half a dozen trials of this sort were made, and the usual
results were produced in every case. Nor did the time requisite for
success seem to be increased by the change of temperature.
The " subject" is occasionally, but not usually conscious of. some
change in the finger as the experiment progresses. Asked to say
whether he felt anything unusual, he would sometimes say that he felt
"cold," "pins and needles," "numbness, or" creepiness," in a
Digitized by Coogle
16 Recent Experiments in Hypnotism.
certain finger-which finger was in nearly every case the one under
experiment. In connection with this point, the following experiment
with Wells is of great interest.Without telling him 'specially to observe
any change in his fingers, one was made insensitive and rigid in the
usual way. It was then" undone" by reverse strokings over the back
of his hand, and he appeared to be in complete ignorance as to which
particular finger had been the subject of experiment, and could not say
which one had been affected. But entranced immediately afterwards,
and told to write which finger had been stiffened, and then woke and
set to the planchette, he wrote the right one. The e:rperiment was
repeated several times-with the same result. The planchette
gave the information which the "subject" could not consciously supply.
Besides the above, 41 experiments were made in which S., while
holding his hand as usual, willed that no effect should be produced.
Of these, 36 were successful (in the sense that no effect was produced);
and 5 failed. In 2 of the 5, complete insensibility and rigidity were
produced, and in 2 others" slight effect was a.pparent in the selected
finger, while in another case the wrong finger altogether was affected.
In 9 of the successful negative experiments, effects were produced in
the finger over which I was holding my hand. In 2 of these cases, how-
ever, the effect was not complete, and once three fingers were a.ffected.
In no instance in these negative trials was I successful when S. was
unsuccessful, i.e., I did not produce an effect on any of the 5 occa.sions
when S. produced effects in opposition to his intention.
Seven e'¥periments were made with a small screen placed over the
finger to be operated upon. A difficulty occurs in keeping the
"subject's" mind free from knowledge of the selected finger; curiosity
prompts him to explore, and a slight rnovement of the fingers betmys
which of them is covered with the screen. Partially to meet this
difficulty, a second screen was placed over one of the non-selected
fingers. Small paper tunnels (supported on bent pieces of copper wire)
were used at the outset. Two fingers being covered with these, S.
held his hand over one of them. The result was that both fingers
became stiff and insensitive. This experiment was repeated with two
other fingers, with the difference that S. did nothing at all. There
was no effect in this case. Twice more the trial was made with two
fresh fingers, S. this time operating over one of them; but there was
no effect in either finger. A week later the trials were resumed, with
a small finger-cover, made of sheet-tin, placed over the finger to be
operated upon. The first experiment of this sort was a failure. Two
later ones succeeded. But in two other cases BOme effect was produced.
In one of tbese, after a prolonged trial, the finger showed a slight stiffnessj
in the other case the finger became quite stiff and insensitive in a com-
paratively short time.
Digitized by Coogle
Recent Ji.'xperiments in HypnotilYm. 17
Six experiments were also made with a paper screen large enough
to cover the whole of the hand, but having a narrow opening through
which one finger could be seen. The effect of this was that the
finger operated upon was alone exposed, and S. was thus enabled to
hold his hand over it at a greater distance than usual.!
The trials of this sort with Parsons gave 5 failures; in the 6th case,
when S.'s hand was about an inch from the finger, it became insensitive
and stiff.
In some other experiments not a finger but some selected spot on the
bare arm was operated upon. In these cases 8. held his fingers bunched
somewhat to a point over the selected spot, about an inch from the
skin. Short was the subject used. Both arms were used in the
experiments, bared to the elbow, and of course the usual screen was
employed. Small tattoo marks on his arms served in some instances for
spots to aim at. It was found that insensitiveness could always be
produced, just as in finger cases. The area of insensibility had the
chosen spot for its centre, and generally extended to five or six inches
in length) and two or three in breadth. Seven trials of the sort were
made, as enumerated below.
Spot Belected: About 6!in. above wrist, back of left forearm.
ReBult: A region became insensitive of about 6in. in length, and.
2in. in breadth, of which the selected spot was the middle.
Spot Belected: 3in. above wrist, back of right forearm.
R6B'Ult: Region of insensibility not quite so long as before, and
apparently a little broader.
Spot Belected: Back of right side of left wrist.
ReBUlt: Insensitiveness over an area much the same as before.
Spot Bekcted: 4in. above wrist, front right forearm.
Restdt: Area of insensitiveness 21in. above and below the spot,
and llin. each side.
Spot B6kcted: 3in. above wrist, right side front left forearm.
ReBUlt: Insensitiveness over an area much the same as before.
Spot Bekcted: Centre of left palm.
ReBUlt: Insensitive over whole of palm and a little way up the
fingers.
Spot Belected: Face of left first finger.
ReB'Ult: Whole finger insensitive and quite stiff. It could not be
closed.
The effect was undone in each case by S. making reverse paases
in gentle contact with the skin.
J The reB801l why the distance had to be small in the ordinary cases was that only
I!O did it seem poBIIible to limit the effect to &Bingle finger.
C
Digitized by Coogle
IR Relation de Dive1'ses Experiences, &c.
II.
RELATION DE DIVERSES EXPERIENOES SUR LA
TRANSMISSION MENTALE, LA LUCIDITE, ET
AUTRES PHENOMENES NON EXPLICABLES PAR
LES DONNEES SCIENTIFIQUES AOTUELLES.
PAR M. CHARLES RICHBT,
Profuseur de PltyBiolog~ ala Faculte de JIedecine de Paris.
AVANT PROPOS.
Le travail que je "iens soumettre au jugement des membres de 1a
Society for Psychical Research represente Ie resultat de six annees de
perseverance. Le temps assurement importe peu au point de vue du
resu1tat final, mais je tiens a prouver que ce n'est pas a 1a Iegere
que je publie ces faits: c' est apres y avoir 10nguement reflechi,
apres avoir repete et varie 1es principa1es experiences, En un
mot, mon opinion, 1entement et progressivement acqllise, sera peu~tre
de quelque poids, pour des juges non prevenus: car elle n'eat pas
l'muvre d'un enthousiasme irrefIechi, mais Ie fruit· d'une patiente
discussion avec moi-m~me.
On ne trouvera a.ucune theorie, ni essai de theorie, mais seulement
des faits, dont plusieurs paraltront insigni6.ants, ma.is qu' on recon-
nattr& au moins comme bien observes, quand je dirai qu'ils etaient
bien observes. II ne depend pas de nous de faire toujours de bonnes
observations; mais ce qui depend de nous, c' est de juger si ees obser-
vations ont ete bien faites. Encore faut-il ~tre prudent, m~me quand
on croit une experience bonne.
II y a deja 18 ans que pour la premiere fois je me suis interesse au
somnambulisme. Depuis cette epoque, je n' ai plloS passe un seul jour
sans y refiechir, et peu~tre pas une semaine sans f&ire une experience
quelconque, futile ou non, sur ces questions. On comprend que j' ai du
voir, chemin faisant, quantite de faits de toute sorte; mais, comme je
ne fsis pas ici un memoire sur Ie somnambulisme ou l' hypnotisme, je
ne parlerai que des faits ayant ce caractere specia.l, de n' ~tre pas
acceptes par lea auteurs classiquea, qui s' occupent de physiologie, de
psychologie, de physique on de medecine.
Je laisse donc de cote, intentionnellement, tout ce qui est connu et
admis, la certitude du sommeil hypnotique, l' anesthesie, l' amnesie,
partielle ou totale, la suggestion et son efficacite sur las phenomenes
psychiques, la production des etats divers de catalepsie, d' extase,
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, &:c. 19
l' inconsc:ence, totaIe ou partielle, l' hemi-somnambulisme, l' ecriture
automatique. les hallucinations avec points de repere. Toutes ces belles
experiences sont maintenant aussi classiques et certaines que les lois
les plus positives de la physique et de la chimie. Je les laisse; et je
veux parler d' autres phenomenes. II s' agit de la transmission mentale,
de la lucidiM, de III. diagnose des maladies, de I' electivite, dus relations
magnetiques, et de la penetration de l' avenir.
Certes je n'aurais pas ose me risquer a. une pareille entreprise, si
la Society for Psychical Research, dirigee par mes sava.nts amis,
M. Ed. Gumey et M. F. Myers, n'avait reussi a. vaincre I'epaisse in-
difference du public et les aveugles preventions des savants. Ils n'ont
assurement pas conquis toutes les convictions: ma.is, ce qui est un
commencement, ils ont force l'attention, ils ont entratne, par leurs con-
sciencieuses etudes, l'estime scientifique. La conviction ne se manie
pas comme une demonstrll.tion geometrique. II ne suffit pas de prouver
pour convaincre. Je Ie sais pa.r ma propreexperience. Bien souvent
j'ai vu des faits qui devaient me convaincre de la lucidiM ou de la
transmission mentale, et pourtant je n'ai pas eM convaincu. II faut une
certaine habitude d'un fait pour arriver 8. y croire. Tant qu'il est
imprevu, nouveau, on ne peut pas l'admettre, malgre quantite de
bonnes raisons.
En tout cas, c' est un grand honneur que d' avoir devance l' opinion.
La courage des membres de la Society for Psychical Resea.rch.m' a paru
devoir ~tre imite. Pourquoi ne dirais-je pas ce que j' ai vu 1 je peux me
tromper, mais ma bonne foi ne fera de doute pour personne, et, d' autre
part, je puis attester que j'ai fait tous mes efforts pour bien observer.
CHAPITRE I.
DES PREcAUTIONS A PRENDRE POUR LES BONNES OBSERVATIONS.
Avant d' entrer dans Ie recit des faits, je parlerai des precautions
qui me paraissent necessaires. Elles sont multiples, et la discussion
des garanties experimentales est tras difficile.
J' attache d' ahord une importance primordiale a. la bonne foi des
sujets et individus sur qui se fait l' experience. Mais qu' est-ce que la
bonne foi 1 et comment peut-on l' apprecier 1
II Y a deux sortes de bonne foi: l' une, que l' on doit exiger, et sans
laquelle aucune experience-ou a. peu pres-n' est vruable; I' autre,
qui est extr~mement rare, et qu' on doit toujours supposer absente.
Pa.rlons d' abord de la bonne foi necessa.ire.
II y a des individus qui trompent sciemment et de propos delibere.
Ains~ quand un prestidigitateur fait un tour de cartes, il trompe
sciemment. C' est son gagne-pain que d'induire en illusion les
8pectateUrs assembles pour Ie voir. II a prepare de longue main des
c 2
Digitized by Coogle
20 Relation de Diverse8 Expbiences, &le.
jeux de cartes, des "ppareils, des machinations de toute sorte. n sait
comment il va proceder pour depister les yeux des spectateurs. Sea
tromperies sont tout un art qui" des regIes, des principes, qu'il connait
et qu' il applique avec plus ou moins de dexMriM.
L' adresse des prestidigitateurs est parfois surprenante, et il n' est
personna qui ne puisse en cit.er quelques exemples rem"rquables. Aussi,
q,uand il s' agit de phenomlmes dus a un prestidigitateur ou a une
personne qui peut litre un prestidigitateur, faut.il etre toujours tres
reserve dans ses conclusions.
Je suppose, par exemple, que I'on m'annonce comme authentique un
fait de transmission mentale, obtenu par Robert Houdin ou Hermann,
ou tout autre magicien donnant des leances de Magie amusante ; j'aurai
III. plus grande difficulte aI' admettre comme sincere; car je sais que
l'habileM de ces escamoteurs est superieure bien souvent, sinon toujours,
amilo sagaciM. C'est en vain que je me serai entoure de precautions
de toute sorte; ces precautions sont Ie plus souvent illusoires, comme
I'atteste une experience de chaque jour, et ce fait de transmission
mentale, si merveilleux qu'il paraisse, court grand risque d'litre un tour
de passe-passe.
II ne suffit pas, pour me faire douter de l'autbenticiM d'une
experience, qu' elle ait ete obtenue par un faiseur de tours; il suffit
meme de moins encore. Pour peu que je ne sois pas "bsolument sftr
que toute supercherie a eM ecartee, je conserve des doutes qui 6tent au
fait observe presque tout son interlit. Par exemple, que M.adame
Blavatski, dont 1110 parfaite sincerite ne me paratt pas incontestable, me
rende temoin d'un fait extraordinaire-comme elle I' a fait en reaJite-je
douterai encore, quelque stupefiant que soit Ie phenomene qui s' est
presente a moi. J e ne pretends pas dire que Madame Blavatski
m'ait trompe. Je dis seulement qu'il me suffit de n'etrepas absolument
sftr du contraire pour que Ie fa.it perde tout son interet. M. Eglinton
m'a rendu temoin adeux reprises difi'erentes de faits plus surprenants
encore que les faits de Madame BlavatUi; mais, sans soupqonner 1.&
bonne foi de M. Eglinton, elle me laisse un doute suffisant pour que
sea experiences, qui renversent tout ce que l'bumanite admet depuis
deux mille lions, ne determinent pas milo conviction.
Supposons que les faits dont m' ont rendu temoin Madame Blavatski.
d' une part, d' autre part M. Eglinton, aient ete produits deva.nt moi
dans les mlimes conditions par des personnes dont III. sincerite absolue
n' est pas I' objet du moindre doute, faisant partie, pour ainsi dire, de
milo vie morale tout entiers, et de I' ensemble de tous mes actes, qu' il
s' agisse, par exemple, de M. H. Ferrari, mon ami intime, ou de M.
Berthelot, mon illustre maitre, ou de MM. Gurney et Myers. Alors
ces faits extraordinaires deviendront absolument authentiques.
Autrement dit tant qu'il me reste un doute quelconque sur la
Digitized by Coogle
&lation de Diverses Experiences, «c. 21
ainoorite des personnes qui font l' experience, je ne pourrai pas emettre
de conclusions formelles.
Je me delie meme tellement de milo sagacite a decouvrir les machi-
nations et les supercheries-comment pourrait-on avoir confiance quand
on a lu les articles de Madame Sidgwick et les relations donnees par
M. Davis 7--que je n'aborderai qu' avec une extreme repugnance les
experiences faites avec des personnes dont III. sincerite ne m' est pas
absolument prouvee. Je prefere des experiences moins bl'illantes, mais
faites avec des garanties de securite que ne m' oflhmt pas quantite de
mediums gages.
On me demandera comment je puis etre assure de III. bonne foi de
telle ou teHe personne. Cela est tres diflicile adire; car III. bonne foi
se commande, et ne se discute pas. Si je devais donner des preuves
scientifiques, rigoureuses, de la bonne foi de M. Ferrari, de M.
Berthelot, de M. Gurney, je serais tort embarra.sse. De fait, je ne puis
meme pas prouver milo propre bonne foi; je dis III. verite, et j'affirme que
je ne mens pas, mais il faut qu'on me croie sur paroles; carje ne puis
donner que ma. parole d'honneur comme preuve: et une preuve
materielle n' est pas possible aapporter.
Faisa.nt une experience de cartes, je dis que trois fois de suite
L H., somnambule, m' a dit la carte exacte, alors que je cachais les
cartes et qu'elle ne pouvait pas les voir. Qui pourra affinner que je
ne mens pas 1 Personne, n' est-il pas vrai 1 On est donc forOO d'accepter
mon temoignage comme vrai, sans me demander d'autre preuve que
mon temoignage. 11 y a necesaite d' admettre, comme une sorte de
postu.latum, IDa bonne foi absolue.
D'ailleurs, en fait de science, il en est toujours ainsi. Quand un
chimiste annonce une reaction nouvelle, on Ie croit sur parole, sans
avoir besoin de lui faire repeter son experience. De meme, qualld
j' annonce tel ou tel fait de somnambulisme, milo parole suffit, et on doit
admettre que je ne mens pas.
Ainsi, quand j'affirmerai III. bonne foi de telle ou telle personne,
il faudra me croire sur parole. J e n' en puis pas donner de preuves,
etant foroo de formuler des affirmations qui ne prouvent rien: par
exemple, que, pendant deux lions, voyant apeu pres tous les jours X. et Z.,
je ne lea ai pas une seule fois pm en flagrant delit de mensonge.
Mais ce n' est pas 1& une preuve scientifique et toutes les raisons que je
pourrais alleguer pour demontrer leur bonne foi sont aussi insuffi-
santes que s'il s'agissait de demontrer III. mienne.
Je suis donc contraint de ne pas demontrer la bonne foi qui me
parait evidente et de me contenter de cette evidence.
Il est indispensable que cette bonne foi me soit evidente; mais ce
n' eat pas encore 10. toute la bonne foi. Entre un individu qui machine
un appareil complique avec tout un attirail de licelles destine 8. me me
Digitized by Coogle
22 RelatWn de D-iverses Experiences, ~c.
tromper, et un individu qui triche un peu, presque involontairement, it
y a une distance considerable. Apporter un jeu de cartes prepare a.
l' avance, ou se lIervir de cartes biseautees, c' est une action infime.
Mais voir par inadvertance Ie jeu de son voisin et en profiter, c' est si
peu une t,richerie que l' on dit alors, .. Cachez votre jeu; je I' ai deja.
vu ; II sans negliger d' en profiter 8 l' occasion.
Ainsi il y a une bonne foi complete, irreprochable, absolue, qu' on
ne rencontre presque jamais, et qu' on ne doit meme pas attendre de soi-
meme. Quelques efforts qu' on fasse, on se laisse toujours entrainer
plus ou moins 8 donner ce qu' on appelle familierement en fran~is le
coup de plJ'Uce, c' est-8-dire 8 renforcer un peu Ie resultat dans Ie sens
qu' on desire. On a beau essayer de resister; cela est impossible, sous
peine d' aner en sens contraire, ce qui serait tout aussi mauvais et
dangereux.
S'il m'est aussi difficile, a. moi, d' litre franchement honnete, combien
plus difficile encore pour les personnes non averties de ce danger, plus
passionnees que moi, moins habituees aux experiences scientifiques, et
plus convaincues de Ill. realite des phenomenes dont je doute! Quoi de
surprenant 8 ce que, malgre elles, pour ainsi dire, elles renforcent lea bons
resultats et diminuent les mauvais, cherchant 8 trouver des explications
sumaturelles ou extranaturelles aux faits qu'elles auront cru reveler.
Pour terminer cette discussion, je crois qu' on peut avoir tres facile-
ment des sujets qui ne trichent pas volontairement. C'est, 8 l' heure
actuelle, monnaie courante que des sujets sinceres. Mais de 1& &180
bonne foi absolue, il y a une enorme distance. Personne, ni moi, ni
M. Gurney, ni M. Myers, n' ont de bonne foi absolue, et je me mefie de
tout Ie monde. Le fait de desirer tel ou tel resultat modifie Ie resultat
qu' on trouve, si bien qu'il faut, selon moi, sa mefier autant de soi-
mame que des autres individus. De 18 cette conclusion qui s'impose :
Pour une bonne experience, it laue ignorer le resultat qu'on veut
obtenir, car on tric/"e to1tjo'Ura plua ou moim.
Ainsi nous admettrons d'abord qne les seules experiences valables
sont celles qu' on a faites sur des personnes dont 180 bonne foi volontaire
etait certaine: et ensnite que toutes precautions doivent etre prises
contre tout Ie monde, precautions portant non sur des trues grossiers,
mais sur une generale et involontaire tendance a. alterer legerement la
verite.
C' est seulement apres avoir procede ainsi qu' on peut etre assure
d' une bonne experience. Il ne faut pas savoir ce qu' on doit trouver :
car, si on Ie sait, on est tente de ne pas bien voir. Malgre nos efforts
vers la bonne foi, si nous attendons un resultat quelconque, nous ne
pourrons inscrire les ph6nomlmes avec une bonne foi absolue.
En outre, il me parait indispensable d' a\"oir des experiences plu~t
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses Experiences, etc. 23
irreprochables comme experimentation que probantes au point de vue
du resultat. C'est Iii. un point qui me parait d'une extreme importance
et que je demande 180 permission de developper.
Je suppose que j'aie obtenu un resultat tout-8.-fait extraordinaire
pour la. lucidit.e ou la. transmission mentale, mais qu'il y a un petit point
defectueux dans mon experience. En vain Ie resultat sera admirable,
Ie cOte defectueux gAtera tout. Si 180 probabilite est seulement d' un
milliardieme pour avoir Ie meme resultat par Ie ha.sa.rd seul, il est clair
que c' est la certitude apeu pres complete que Ie ha.sa.rd n' a pu arriver
Ii. ce resultat. Soit. Mais Ie cl}te defectueux de l'experience empeche
toute conclusion. J e concluerai peut..etre, mais j'auraitort, et personne
ne me croira; car 180 possibilite d' une erreur enleve tout Ie serieux de
ma demonstration.
Supposons, au contraire, que ce soit une experience sans defaut,
sans un seul defaut. Cela est rare: mw entin, Ii. 180 rigueur, cem
existe. Eh bien! quel que soit Ie resuitat, ce resuItat sera bien plus
interessa.nt que celui de cette merveiIleuse experience defectueuse en un
point. Admettons que 180 probabilite d' avoir par Ie ha.sa.rd seul un
r6sultat analogue soit d' un dixieme. C' est encore une probabilite
BBseZ forte; mais, si forte qu' elle soit, c' est toujours quelque chose
que d'avoir reussi une fois avec une probabilite d' un dixieme seulement,
alon que la lucidite ou Ie ha.sa.rd seuls ont pu intervenir. Autrement
dit, j' aime mieux une experience peu probante, mnis irreprochable,
qu'une experience tres Iegerement reprochable, et tres merveilleuse.
Tous mes soins ont donc porte sur Ie' procede experimental. C'est
Ii. faire des experiences non pas etourdissantes, ma.is bien rigoureuses,
que je me Buis attache. Souvent elles ont ete non rigoureubes, mais
alon j'ai pris soin d'indiquer leur defectuosite, de maniere Ii. ce qu'on
soit assure, quand je dis, "cette experience est irreprochable," que
reeIiement elle est bien irreprochable. Certes, il m' est impossible
d' affirmer en absolue certitude que telle experience n' a pas de defaut :
roais les etudes de psychologie ne different pas des autres sciences a
cat egard. Quand un chimiste etablit Ie poids atomique du
potassium, il n' est pas absolument sftr de son fait: mais il a.
procede avec methode, et il a fait tout ce qu' il pouvait pour eviter
toute illusion et toute erreur. C' est ce que j' ai essa.ye de faire,
at je ne pretends pas Ii. autre chose. J' espere qu' on ne trouvera
pas defectueuses les experiences que je declare bonnes. Qu' on les trouve
peu probantes, cela m' est bien plus indifferent; c'est affaire d' opinion,
d'interpretation; mais je serais vraiment tres malheureux si I' on y
trouvait des defauts d'experimentation que je n' ai pas aper9us.
n s' ensuit qu' on trouvera dans· Ie cours de ce long memoire bien
des resuItats qui paraitront denues d' interet; car ils seront peu pro-
bants. C' est un peu 180 faute, je crois, de tous les recits extraordinaires
Digitized by Coogle
24 .Relation de Diverses Expel'unces, &:c.
qu' on nous a donnes. En fait de transmission mentale ou de lucidite, on
"oulait du merveilleux, et on a donne du merveilleux, sans se prOOccuper
de Ill. valeur de l' experimentation. C' est pourtant cette experimenta-
tion rigoureuse qui importdit Ie plus.
L' avantage de ces experiences bien faites, meme quand eUes
prouvent peu de chose, est qu' elIes permettent de se faire une opinion.
Ri je souMonne quelque defaut cache a une experience, je ne puis, moi,
lecteur, me mire une opinion, tandis que si, moi, lecteur, je lis III. relation
d'une experience sans defo.ut, je puis parfaitement juger si Ie resultat est
favorable ou non a Ill. theorie de Ill. transmission mentale. Ainsi je
donne des exemples de dessins reproduits, grAce ala lucidite de tels ou tels
aujets. Pour diverses raisons il a' agit 10. d' experiences que je crois
irreprochables; mais o.ux yeux de beaucoup de personnes, les resultats
sont a peu pres nuls. Car on dira que Ie hasard a pu faire les con-
cordances qu' on rencontre entre les dessins origino.ux et les dessioa
reproduits.
Probantes ou non probantes, on doit indiquer ces experiences; car
chacun sera a meme de Be rendre compte de Ill. part qui peut revenir au
hasard dans Ill. reproduction de tel ou tel dessin. Tous les lecteurs
sauront que c' est ou bien Ie hasard ou bien Ill. lucidite, et ils pourront
porter un jugement motive; tandis que, a'il leur reste quelque doute
sur Ill. sincerite de I' experience, il y aura un troisieme facteur, fa.cteur
inconnu, dont Ie rOle est immense peut-etre, et qui frappera de mort
toutes leurs experiences.
En un mot, pour les experiences que je rapporterai ici, il faudra
choisir entre ces deux hypotheses, ou bien Ie hasard, ou bien une
propriete quelconque, mal definie encore, de l' intelligence humaine.
Mais a coup sur ce n'est pas une supercherie, consciente ou inconsciente,
ni une lacune dans Ill. procede experimental.
Je suis, pour rna part, fermement convaincu que, si I' on s' etait
attache moina au rnerveilleux qu' a 180 rigueur des demonstrations, on
aurait entraine, dans ces questions delicates, bien plus de convic-
tions qu' on n' a pu Ie f80ire avec des essais defectueux souvent, et par
cela meme peu probants.
CHAPITRE II.
DU IIASARD DANS LES EXPERIENCES.
Reste alors 1110 question du hasard et du role qu' il joue. A cet
agard, je voudrais, quoique etant en desaccord avec plusieurs de mes
amis, m' expliquer formellement.
Le hasard peut a' exprimer par un chi1fre qui est, comme on dit, la
probabilite. Ainsi, si, tirllont au hasard une carte d' un jeu de ca.rtes
complet, j' amene un 6 de cmur, c' est Ie hasard qui m' a donne ce 6 de
Digitized by Coogle
25
COlur, et c' est Ie hasard seul; car j'ignorerai toujours, si les cartes sont
identiques et si Ie jeu a ete bien meM, pourquoi j' ai amene Ie 6 de COlur
pJutOt que toute autre carte.
Donc, c' est Ie hasard qui m' a donne Ie 6 de Calur; mais ce hasard
peut Be chiffrer. J' avais, pour tirer Ie 6 de Calur, dans un jeu de 52
cartes, 1 chance sur 52; pour amener un 6, 1 chance sur 13; pour
amener un COlur, 1 chance sur 4, et pour amener une carte rouge 1
chance sur 2. Enfin, j' avais 51 chances sur 1>2 pour ne pas amener
une carte quelconque designee d'avance, Ie roi de pique, par exemple.
Ainsi, mathematiquement, je puis assigner a tel ou tel evenement
une probabilite qui est chiffrable. Mais la difficulte n' est pas dans Ie
calcul des diverses probabilites mathematiques, quoique ce soit deja, si
on Ie pousse un peu loin, un calcul tree difficile, qui peut embarrasser
les plus grands mathematiciens; la difficulte veritable est clans l' appli-
cation de cas lois matMmatiques aux evenements reels.
On demontre en mathematiques que Ie calcul des probabilites n' est
applicable que s' il y a un nombre infini de coups, et que c'est alors
seulement qu'il est vrai
Ainsi j' ai un jeu de cartes devant moi; je n' ai qu' 1 chance sur
52 pour amener Ie 6 de Calur, et pourtant il se peut que j' amene un 6 de
COlur. Rien ne s' y oppose, et c' est meme un tirage tout aussi probable
que. tel ou tel tirage donne. Oependant cette petite probabilite
est loin d'etre negligeable. J e sera.is donc deraisonna.ble de conclure quoi
que ce soit d' une experience ou, designa.nt d' avance Ie 6 de Calur,
j'amene Ie 6 de c~ur.
Si je prends un autre jeu de cartes, et si, apres l' avoir bien meM,
je tire de nouveau un 6 de COlur, 1110 probabilite devient tres petite,
~. Mais nulle impossibilite. Oelo. peut se voir; celo. s' est vu,
et la combino.ison d' un 6 de 8<Bur suivi d' un 6 de Calur, est tout aussi
probable que n'importe queUe autre combinaison de deux cartes con-
secutives.
Si je prends un troisieme jeu de cartes, puis un quo.trieme, puis un
cinquieme, j' aurai, pour tirer toujours un 6 de Calur, des probo.bilites
de moins en moins grandes; car Ie nombre des combina.isons devient
enonne. Mais, dans aucun cas, nous n' arriverons 8. l'impossibilite.
II sera toujours possible que Ie hasard me ·donne telle combinaison
donnee, et elle aura autsnt de chances que telle autre combinaison
donnee.
n faut arriver 8. l'infini pour obtenir l'impossibilite. Autrement
dit, 10. certitude de ne pas toujours amener un 6 de Calur ne survient
que si je fais un nombre infini de tirages. Jamais je n' arriverai il. la
certitude ruathematique, ou plutOtje n' y arnverai que si ron me donne
la ressource d' un nombre infini de tirages.
Si donc, pour conclure, on avait besoin de 10. certitude mo.tbematique,
Digitized by Coogle
26 Relcttion de D-ivmre8 Experiences, &;c.
on ne conclurait jamais j car on n' arrivera jamais a. un nombre infini
de coups.
Heureusement on peut conclure j car 180 certitude mathematique et.
180 certitude morale ont des exigences differentE.'s.
J e suppose qu'il s' agisse de jouer mon honneur, mon existence,
l' honneur et I' existence des miens, et tout ce qui m' est Ie plus cher.
Certes,.ie n' aurai pas 180 certitude mathematique que, sur 100 tirages,
Ie 6 de COOUI' ne sortira pas 100 fois de suite. Mathematiquement et.
meme reellement, cette combinaison est possible j mais pourt.ant je
consentirais volontiers a..iouer contre un sou ma vie, mon honneur, ma.
fortune, ma patrie, et tout ce que j' aime, si j'avais contre moi en ma.
flloveur 180 probabiliw que Ie 6 de coour sur 100 tirages consecutifs ne
sortira pM 100 fois de suite. J' ai 180 certitude morale qu'il ne sortira.
pas 100 fois de suite, alors que je n' en ai pas Ill. certitude math&.
matique.
Il n' est meme pas besoin de pousser jusqu' a. 100 Ie nombre des.
th:.ages. A 10 tirages, j' affronterais encore Ie mame pli.ri, tellement il
est invraisemblable que Ie 6 de coour sortira 10 fois de suite. Marne
avec 5 tirages je I' affronterais encore, car il est tres invraisemblable et
impossible, pratiquement, que Ie hasard me donne, sur 5 tirages, 5 fc:iis
de suite Ie 6 de cumr.
Theoriquement rien n' est plus simple j car 180 probabiliM que Ie 6
de coour sortira 5 fois de suite est de Ja) o!o000' C' est comme si }' on
mettait dans une urne 379,999,999 boules noires et une boule blanche.
En tirant au hasard une boule de I' urne, et en faisant un seul
tiro.ge. jamais .ie ne tirero.i 180 boule blanche.
Il arrivera meme ceci, c' est que, mlloigre moi, je m'imaginer8oi
d' autres conditions que Ie pur hasard intervenant pour modifier
I' evenement. Si je tire 5 fois de suite Ie 6 de cmur, au lieu de dire,
"C' cst un hasard extraordinaire," je supposerai autre chose j car Ie
hasard ne donne pas ces etonnantes successions. J e supposerai qu' il y
a. une cause quelconque, que je ne connais pas, qui m' & fait amener
cinq fois de suite un 6 de cmur. J' en serai meme tellement convaincu
que j' irai chercher cette cause, regardant si toutes Ies cartes sont bien
semblables, si ce n' est pas une pI8oisn.nterie que m' & faite un
prestidigitateur, si dans Ie jeu il y & bien 52 cartes difierentes, et
si chaque jeu n' est pas compose uniquement de 6 de coour.
Prenons meme une probabiliM moindre j par exemple, 180 proba.bilite
d' avoir deux fois de suite un 6 de coour, c' est une probabiliM encore
tres petite, de 1 sur 2,704. Si Ies paris etaient proportionnes mathe-
matiquement, je devrais parier 1 franc contre 2,704 francs qu'il n' y
aura pas, sortant du jeu et amenes par moi en deux tirages successifs,
deux 6 de cmur. J e suppose alors que j' aie une fortune de 300,000
francs. Je consentiro.i tres volontiers ajouer m80 fortune tout entiere
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Divel'8e8 Experiences, J:c. 27
contra 180 chance matbematiquement corremtive de gagner 100 francs.
Car, en jouant, je suis a peu pres s6.r que deux fois de suite je ne
sortirai pas un 6 de C<Bur, ou telle ou telle autre carte donnee d'avance.
J' accepterais tres volontiers Ie pari dans des conditions semblables ;
mais je ne ferai ce pari que si mon adversaire declare qu' il ne demandera
pas a recommencer; car alors les conditions deviendrail'nt differentes,
et je ne voudrais pas jouer un grand nombre de parties analogues.
Matbematiquement je ne suis pas s6.r du tout que deux fois de suite je
n' amlmerai pas un 6 de C<Bur; mais de fait cet evenement ne va
certainement pas se produire. Et,. quoique je risque de perdre toute
ma fortune, je ne veux pas me priver de ce risque de gagner 100
francs presque a coup sur. Quoique les conditions du pari soient
equitables, c' est un' billet de 100 francs que j'empocherai presque a.
coup s6.r.
En rea.lite, dans notre vie de chaque jour, ce qui dirige notre
conduite, ce qui fait nos convictions, nos dkisions, ce sont des proba-
bilites bea.ucoup moins fortes que cette prolmbilite de ~. ~, c' est
presque la pl'obabilite, quand on monte en chemin de fer, de perir dans
un accident. Un homme de 35 ana, bien portant et qui n' est expose 8
aucun danger particulier, n' a qu' une chance sur 100 d' atteindre la. fin
de I' annee, et il n' a guere qu' une chance sur 3,000 de vivre encore dans
deux semaines. Quel est cependantcelui qui ne se considere pas comme a.
peu pres certain de vivre encore dans deux semaines1 En assimilant les
chances de vie au tira.ge dans un jeu de cartes, on voit que III. probabilite
d'amener quatre fois de luite un f) de C<Bur, c' est 8 peu pres la proba-
bilite de vivre encore une heure, pour un homme de 35 ans, bien
portal1t et ne courant aucun danger special. Matbematiquement je.ne
suis pas sur que je vivrai encore dans une heure, mais moralement j' en
ai la. certitude presque complete.
Prenons encore I'exemple des jures qui ont acondamner amort un
individu. II me semble qu'lls n' ont iamais la certitude que l' individu
est coupable; si faible que soit la. probabilite de l' innocence, elle est
toujours plus grande que ~. Tant de circonstances accessoires ont
fausse Ie resultat ! n s' est produit peut~tre de faux temoignages; les
temoins ont-ils bien va 1 L' aveu du coupablA est-il sincere1 Qui sait
s' il n' y a pas quelque machination 1 Que sais-je encore 1 n y a quantite
de donnees inconnues qui enlevent toute certitude mathemn.tique et qui
ne laissent que la. certitude morale.
Ainsi nous ne sommes jamais guides par la. certitude mathemn.-
tique; c' est toujours, meme dans les cas les plus certains, la certitude
morale qui nous guide. Elle nous suffit et nous ne demandons pas plus
pour &gir. Meme Ie savant qui fait des experiences maMrielles,
d' apparence irreproehable, doit se rendre compte qu' il n' y a pas pour
lui de certitude matbematique ; car des inconnues innombrahles viennent
Digitized by Coogle
28 RelatWn de Div,er8e8 Experiences, J:c.
~ter ce cara.ctere d' absolue certitude que peuvent seules donner lea
matMmatiquea.
II s' agit maintenant de savoir si nous avons tort ou si nous avons
raison, lorsque nous nous contentons de cas probabiliMs fortes, mais
bien eloignees de la certitude. Sommes-nous des imprudents et pouvons-
nous conclure, comme nous Ie faisons sans cesse, que nous vivrons plus
d' une heure, que Ie chemin de fer ne va pas nous ecraser, que Ie prevenu,
charge par tous les temoins les plus veridiques, est coupable, que la
determination de trois mesares chimiques ou physiques est suflisante
pour avoir un chiffre exact 1
Pour ma part, cela me parait evident. II n' y aumit pas moyen de
vivre, si l' on devait ne se conduire que d' apres des certitudes. Nulle
part il n' y a de certitude; partout ce sont des ap6U preB, et nous avons
raison de faire ainsi; car l' experience justitie presque toujours nos
presomptions.
Avec des cartes, l' evenement parait plus fantasque; mais ce n' est
Ill. qu' une apparence, et c' est parce que nous n' y avons pas assez
refMchi que cette apparence a lieu. Au fond, c' est la merne fixiM dans
Ie sens Ie plus probable. Bien entendu, il ne s' agit pas de faire
d'innombrables experiences: car alors on retrouverait assurement, pour
peu qu' on fasse une longue serie de tirages l' evenement improbable,
mais possible, qui devient probable quand Ie nombre des tirages
augmente.
Donc il ne s' agit que d' un petit nombre d'experiences. Eh bien!
dans ce cas, si la probabilite est faible, par exemple d' l~ OU d' no,
on peut de confiance faire l' essai; c' est du cOM de la probabiliM tm
forte que l' evenenlent se produit. Je prierais mes lecteurs de faire par
eux-memes cette experience: par exemple, de prendre au hasard, dans
un JAU de cartes tras bien mele, six cartes. Ds verront que ces cartes
ne seront ni toutes rouges ni toutes noires, et pourtant la probabiliM
de n' avoir que des rouges ou que des noires est encore aSS8Z forte;
car on a 127 chances de tirer des cartes de couleurs differentes contre
une de tirer six cartes de Ill. meme couleur.
Qu' on ne m' allague pas I' exemple de la roulette ou parfois, c' est-
&-dire une fois, III. rouge est sortie 21 fois de suite; car precisement il
y a eu un tel nombre de series qUA les nombres les plus improbables
peuvent se presenter. D ne s' agit, je Ie repete, que de tirages en petit
nombre. Eh bien! dans cas tirages en petit nombre, une probabiliM de
c;f;o ou de ik meme suffit pour qu' on soit moralement sur que l' evens-
ment improbable n' aura pas lieu, et on a raison: car il n' a pas lieu.
e' est meme un des faits les plus extraordinaires et qui confondent Ie
plus l'intelligence, que de voir se verifier experimentalement avec une
telle precision Ie calcul des proba.biliMs, qui semblait devoir rester dans
Ie domaine des sciences mathematiques et de la theori~. Eh bien I ce
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation ae DiverBes Expe-rie'1l.ces, J:c. 29
qui est merveilleux, c' est que ce calcul sort de la theorie pour entrer
dana Ie fait. Et il est avere par I' experience de chaquEl jour que ce calcul
Be verifie non pas seulement avec de grands chiffres et des series allant
al' infini, comme Ie disent lea mathematiciens, mais encore avec de
petits chift'res.
Si j' ai aborde avec tant de details ootte question de la probabilite,
c' est paroo que l' on fait, 00 me semble, trop bon marche des experiences
ou I' on a rencontre une serie improbable. On dit que Ie hasard & pu
donner ces series, et on n' a pas reftkhi que Ie hasard invoque par noua
dans ce cas, nous ne l'invoquons pas dans les conditions ordinaires de
180 vie. Quand on est a court d' arguments, on parle du hasard; mais
au fond on n' y croit pas; car on s&it parfaitement, par S& propre
experience, que c'est toujours l' evenement Ie plus probable-quand il
s' agit de centiemes et de milliemes-qui arrive.
On Ie Bait si bien qu' on raisonne toujours dans cette hypothese.
Ainsi soient plusieurs jeux de cartes eWes devant moi. Je tire
au hasard six cartes et j' amene six carres.ux. Quelle est l'idee des
spectateurs en voyant cette serie-pas bien extraordinaire-puisque 180
probabilite est de Ji' Leur idee est que j' ai fait un tour de cartes, ou
bien que Ies jeux n' ont pas ete melanges. On supposera peut-etre
quelque autre cause, un sorte de divination: mais on aura grand peine a
supposer Ie hasard; car Ie hasard, dans une serie, peut donner, mais
ne donne pas, ces probabilites si faibI~.
n faut donc, je crois, quand Ie nombre des experiences n' est pas
tres considerable, se contenter d'une certitude incomplete, et ne pas
@tre plus exigeant pour Ies experiences psychiques que pour les
experiences de chimie.
Ou pluWt 180 seule exigence qu'il soit necessaire d' avoir, c' est
I' exigence experimentale. Le jour ou toutes les causes d'illusion auront
ete ecartees, Ie jour ou I' on aura elimine Ies fraudes, conscientes ou non,
des sujets, Ies imaginations de I' experimentateur, et sa mauvaise foi
scientifique involontaire; Ie jour ou l' on pourra faire enregistrer Ies
resultats par un individu impartial et ignorant, une sorte d' automate
qui n' a pas d' opinion et qui traduit servilement toutes Ies paroles du
sujet,---oo jour Ia, si I' on a une serie dont 180 probabilite est de moins
d'un milliame, on peut regarder Ie phenomene qu' on cherche comme
apeu pres demontre.
Ce qui est necessaire a l' heure actuelle, ce ne sont pas tant des
faits extraordinaires que des faits bien observes; nous avons tous lu ou
vu, Ies una et les autres, des faits extraordinaires. Les ouvrages de
magnetisme sont remplis de ces histoires merveilleuses qui sont, je
I' avoue, amusantes alire, mais qui n' entrainent pas 180 conviction; car,
si 180 bonne foi des narrateurs est a peu pres certaine, leur creduIite
naive eat plus cemine encore, et enlave tant soit peu notre contiance. Et
Digitized by Coogle
30 Relation de Diver8e8 Experiences, &c.
pourtant, il PSt inadmissible qu' il n'y ait pas quelque chose de \'rai dans
tous ces recits. Pour ma part, je regarde comme impossible cette immense
illusion se prolongeant pendant presque un siecle, sans quelque parcelle
de verite par derriere.1 Au fond je ne sais pas quelle est cette
verite; mais il y en a certainernent une, et, quand on parle de la
lucidite, de III. sugi6stion mentale. de III. divination des maladies, apres
tout ce qui a ete dit, ce ne sont pas les faits etonnants qui font defaut ;
c' est III. preuve scientifique, rigoureuse; CAr les allegations innombrables
qu'on a foumies n' ont manque que de rigueur dans III. demonstration
pour entrainer I' assentiment unanime.
Je crois pouvoir resumer toute cette discussion en etablissant lea
trois points suivants :
(1) Lea experiences ne sont valables que si III. bonne foi consciente
des experimentateurs est incontestable.
(2) II faut toujours se mefier de la mauvaise foi inconsciente de toU'J
les experimentateurs et m41me de soi-m41me.
(3) On n' a pas Ie droit d' exiger pour lea phenomenes psychiques
une probabilite plus forte que pour les autres sciences, et, avec des
probabiJites au-dessous d' un millieme, on aura une demonstration
suffisamment rigoureuse.
CnAPITRB III.
DES 8UJETS QUI ONT 8ERVI 1 ME8 KXPEIUENCE8.
J e ne dirai que peu de mots des sujets qui ont servi 8. mes
experiences; car, ce qui est interessant, ce sont les resultats obtenus et
non III. maniere de les obtenir: Certes, il serait bien utile et bien
important de pouvoir determiner comment j' ai eu tel ou tel resultat
impossible 8. prevoir; mais je suis force, 8. cet egard, de reconnaitre ma
totale impuissance. Je ne sais rien et absolument rien des conditions
necessaires pour reussir dans III. suggestion mentale ou dans la lucidite.
Un obsel·vateur plus perspicace ou plus heureux y arrivera sans doute
apres moi; mais mes efforts ont ete infrucflueux. Quand j' ai reussi, c' a
eM une heureuse fortune, et mon talent n' y est pour rien. Assurement
celli. nous indique bien que nous ne sommes encore qu' 8. III. periode
empirique et incertaine. Le moment viendra peut-etre ou 1l0US franchi-
rons ce pn,s redoutable, et ou nous affirmerons par avance III. lucidit.e OU
III. non-lucidiM; mais jusqu' 8. present je ne puis rien preciser, ni
meme rien soupCionner. Je dois me contenter des donnees brutes que
m' a fournies une longue et perseverante observation.
I Comprendrait-on que toUd ces recueils: P.UChi8Ch~ Stuclien, Sphinx, Light,
Bllnner of Light, Proucdi"!13 of the Socit'ty for P'lIchical Rt:3carck, etc., etc., ne
f!\ssent remplis que d' impostures et d' illusions!
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiV6'I'8e8 Experiences, &:c. 31
J e nommerai surtout dans Ie cours de ces experiences quatre sujets
~ue j' appellerai Leonie, Alice, Eugenie, et Helena.
Quelques autres faits epars, plus ou moins interessants, ont ete
observes sur d' autres personnes, maisj' ai experimentesurtoutavec les
quatre sujets dont je viens d' indiquer les noms.
Leonie est cette personne dont M. Janet et M. Gibert ont entretenu
180 Societe de Psychologie Physiologique. C' est une femme de 45 ana
environ, dont l' existence a ete des Ie debut presque men-·eilleuBe.
Tout enfant, elle avait des crises de sOmnambulisme naturel, elle a ete
pendant pres de dix ans endormie par un medecin qui a obtenu avec
elle des phenomenes tout-a..fait surprenants, parait-il, mais dont 180
trace a a.peu pres completement disparu. Leonie a ete ensuite entre les
mains de M. Gibert, puis de M. Janet, qui ont pu demontrer Ie fait du
sommeil a. distance. Elle est d' un caractere tres doux, tres simple, et
tres timide. A l' etat de veille, elle OBe apeine lever les yeux sur les
personnes qui l' entourent, mais, quand elle est endormie, ellp a de tout
autres allures. Elle est alors tres vive, gaie, rieuse, enfant, et assez
hardie. Elle est d' ailleurs d' un maruement difficile, et on ne peut
faire d' elle ce qu' on veut,' car elle passe al' impro"iste par une serie
de phases de catalepsie, d' extase, de lethargie, qui, pour iltre asaez '
regulieres, n' en sont pas moins impossibles a arreter ou a
diminuer.
Alice est une femme de 28 ana, dontj' ai donne l' observation dans
les Bulletim de la. Societe d6 Psyckologie. Elle est gaie, vive,pas
timide; mais, etant endormie, elle est comme solennelle et grave. Je
l' ai endormie il y a deux ans, et depuis cette epoque j' ai fait avec elle
de nombreuses experiences. Des Ie debut, j' ai declare que je ne voulais
pas avoir de phenomenes physiques, et, de fait, elle n' a jamais rien eu
qui ressemble ala lethargie. Parfois je la laisse endormie du sommeil
magnetique pendant 2, 3, 4, ou meme 6 heures: mais ce n' est pas de
la Iethargie, car, pendant tout ce temps, elle reste pn etat de me re..
pondre. Elle est anesthesique, et n' entend pas les bruits exterieurs,
mais c' est a la longue seulement que cette anesthesie et cat isolement
sont survenus, car au debut il n' y avait rien de Berublable, et elle
pouvait encore entendre.
Eugenie est unejeune fille de 21 ans, qui a ete des sa. premiere enfance
prise de crises de somnambulisme spontane. Elle a, c(\mme les deux
autres femmes precederument nommees, les cheveux et les yeux
tres noirs. Elle est tres timide, leve apeine les yeux sur les personnes
qui l' entourent et ne donne 180 main qu' avec· quelque repugnance.
Endormie, elle est bien moins timide et parle avec gaiete et assurance.
Elle a ete endormie par diverses personnes, qui ont, parait-il, obtenu des
phenomenes bien superieurs a. ce que j' ai obtenu avec elle. Elle n' a
1'&8 de crises spontanoos, comme Leonie. L' anesthesie est complete, si
Digitized by Coogle
32 Relation rk Diverses Experiences, &:c.
complete quO en ete, a 1& campagne 011 je I' endormais, les mouches
venaient se promener sur ses levres et sea narines sans qu' elle s' en
aper<;6.t et sans qu' elle fit un mouvement pour s' en debarrasser. AUK
paupieres, ces m~mes mouches provoquaient un leger mouvement
retlexe des paupieres, comme un fremissement imperceptible. Eugenie a.
ete endormie par diverses personnes. Malheureusement pour l' etude
scientifiq\le, on lui a perauade de donner des consultations dans un
cabinet de medecin magnetiseur, et ce metier fatigant a., je crois,
altere sea facultes de lucidite qui, avant moi-car je ne les ai pas con-
statees par moi-meme-auraient ete surprenantes. Sa bonne foi est
tout-B.-fait certaine.
Helena est une femme de 38 lions, blonde, petite, et qui a ete
endonnie avant moi par peu de personnes. Elle s' etait occupee de
spiritisme, sans y croire d' ailleurs, et elle s' est aper<;ue qu' en se mettant
les mains sur Ill. table d' experiences elle entrait da.ns des sortas de
crises de somnambulisme, qui duraient longtemps. Son sommeil, quand
je I' endora, est tres calme, sans crises, avec anesthesie, amnesie, et
isolement complet. Elle peut-et c' est un phenomene special que je
n' ai pas rencontre sur d' autres-s' endormir elle·meme a volonte.
Elle fixe sa pensea sur tel ou tel objet, et alora elle tombe en somnam-
bulisme. Elle a profite de cette etrange faculte pour essayer de donner
des consultations medica1es, sans grand succes pecuniaire d' ailleun.
Elle est de tres bonne foi, et en elle, comme dans les trois femmes
precedentes, on peut avoir entiere confiance (pour la bonne foi
volontairc, bien entendu).
CUAPITRE IV.
EXPERIENCES SUR LE SOMMEIL 1 DISTANCE.
ees experiences n' ont ete faites methodiquement qu' avec Leonie.
Je m'imaginais d' abord que, de toutes 1es demonstrations possibles
d' une action extraordinaire-j' appelle de ce nom pour abreger toutes
les actions qui ne rentrent pas daDS Ie cadre des faits adoptes et
reconnus par la science-Ie sommeil adistance etait 10. plus facile et Ill.
plus claire, Ill. moins soumise a10. critique.
Thooriquement il en est peut-l!tre ainsi; m"is de fait il est difficile
de conclure; car on rencontre des obstacles serieux, et il est vraiment
aussi impossible que pour les autres phenomenes de lucidite d' obtenir
quelque chose de caracteristique.
En outre, Ie nombre des sujets sur qui on peut agir a distance
est tres limite. J' ai eu l' occasion jadis d' en signaler un cas. M. Janet
('n " rapporM d' excellents exemples. M. Hericourt a cite une obser-
vation tres probante, et enfin :M. Gley a rappeIe Ill. belle observation de
M. Dusart.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diver8e8 Experience8, &c. 33
V oici comment j' ai etudie sur Leonie Ie sommeil adistance.
Elle demeurait chez mon ami M. Ferrari, a une distance de 500
metres environ de mon domicile. J e ne prevenais personne de r heure
alaquelle je devais agir, et je III. faisa.is observer pour savoir aqueUe
heure se produirait Ie phenomene.
J'ai fait ainsi neuf experiences qui ont eu dt:s succes divers. SallS
w' arr@ter aux causes qui, suivant moi, a tort ou araison, ont fait
I' insucces de III. quatrieme, de la. cinquieme et de III. neuvieme experience j
il ne nons en reste pas moins six, dont quatre sont mediocres et deux
me paraissent bonnes.
Premiere Expmence.--J' essa.ye d' endormir Leonie en allant de chez
moi chez M. Ferrari. La mercredi, 12 Janvier, de 9 h. 10 du matin a
9 h. 30, Leonie titait eveillee. Le soir, a5 heures, pendant qu' elle etait
en sommeil magnetique, elle me dit, "Vous avez essaye de m'endormir
en marchant. J'ai commence aavoir emrie de dormir 20 minutes avant
:jue vous ne veniez J' allais m' endormir 8. 9 h. 20, quand Ies enfanta
ont fait du bruit et m' ont emp&:hee de m' endormir."
Assurement elle m' a dit cela spontanement, sans que je I' aie
interrogee j mais je n' ai pas I' habitude de venir ainsi Ie matin chez M.
Ferrari, de sorte que celli. a pu eveiller sa perspica.ciM.
Deuxibne Experience.--Je tire au sort pour savoir si je dois
l' endormir Ie vendredi, 14, ou Ie samedi, 15. Le sort designe vendredi.
Quant 8. I' heure, III. latitude etant entre 8 heures du matin et 7 heures
du soir, Ie sort designe 3 heures.
. J' a"ais meutaI/ment de 3 h. 10 a3 h. 45. J'arrive chez M. Ferrari
a 3 h.45. Leonie etait sortie. Elle rentre ida maison a3 heures 51 ;
son premier mot aIII. domestique qui lui ouvre est de dire: ., J e ne puis
pas avancer, mes jambes treurblent.'· C' est alors seulement qu' on
lui apprend que j' etais Ill.. Endormie, elle me raconte que dans III.
boutique ou elle etait allee acheter des tabliers, elle a senti tout d' un
coup 111. chaleur l' incommoder j elle a alors brusquement quitte Is.
boutique, sans m€lme savoir III. couleur des tabliers qu' elle vient
achet6r. En chemin elle avait peur de rouler sous les roues des
voitures; car ses jambes tremblaient et refusaient d'avancer. Elle
me donne l'adt'esse de III. boutique ou elle a ete ainsi prise de cpt
etourdissement, et alors je calcule Ie temps qui lui a ete necessaire
pour rentrer. 11 lui a fallu apeu pres 20 minutes, et, comme elle est
rentree a 3 h. 51, il s' ensuit que c' est a 3 h. 31 environ qu' elle a.
ressenti l' elfet du sommeil.
Ce qui donne de III. valeur a cette experience, c' est d' abord que Ie
jour et l' heure OU je devais agir avaient ete tires au sort, et que, dans
l'intervaIle, je n'Rvais pas vu Leonie, de sorte que rien ne pouvait lui
faire soup~onn~r ni l' heure ni Ie jour. D' autre plLrt c' est 111. seule fois
pendant son sejour aParis qu' elle s' est trouvce mal dans une boutique.
D
34 .Relation de Diverses Experiences, J:c.
Entin, c' est en entrant dans 180 maison, et avant de savoir que je fusse
la, qu'elle a declare qu' elle avait ete prise d' etourdissement.
Troisieme Experience.-Je voulais laisser Ull certain intervalle
de temps entre deux essais, et alors j' etais a peu pres reao1u a ne pas
endormir Leonie Ie samedi; mais, en rentrant chez moi, je change d' avis,
et Ie samedi matin, a11 heures, j' essaye de l' endormir; de plus je
prends l' heure de 11 heures, qui difl'ere des heures habituelles. J' agis
a distance de 11 h. 1 a11 h. 8 minutes. et j' arrive chez M. Ferrari a
midi 28 minutes.
Je trouve Leonie eveilIee; mais elle avait pourtant ressenti quelque
action; car elle a ete prise, vera 11 heures, de somnolence et d' amnesie
partielle, comme l' indiquent les details suivants.
Etant endormie, Leonie me raconte qu' elle s' est sentie prise de
somnolence a11 heures qu' .... Elle n' acheve pas, de sorte que je ne
puis dire si c' est 11 heures quatre ou 11 heures quinze. J e ne
pousse pas I' examen plus loin, de peur de 1a mettre sur 180 voie
de 180 reponse que je veux obtenir. Interrogeant les personnes de la
maison, j' apprends que vera 11 heures et demie on est venu dans Ia
chambre ou elle etait et qu' on I' a trouvee endormie. Elle n' a a10rs
pas entendu entrer dans sa chambre; ce n' est qu' a midi 10 minutes
qu' elle a entendu venir. On lui disait d' aller d~jeuner.
Ainsi, sans que rien puisse I' avertir du jour et de I' heure, Leonie,
un peu apres 11 heures, a ate prise d' une sorte d' engourdissement et
de stupeur qui I' ont empecbee de reagir et d' entendre. nest difticile de
dire si parfois, pendant son sejour chez M. Ferrari, elle a eu des sortes
d'absence analogues a. celle-ci. Maisje ne crois pourtant pas qu' aUCUlle
absence avec somnolence aussi forte ait ate constatee. Toutefois, comme
il n' y a pas eu de sommeil veritable, il faut considerer cette experience
comme un succes incomplet, ou mllme comme un demi-insucces.
Sixiem8 E:-epenmce.--Je Iaisse Ies quatrieme et cinquieme experi-
.nces qui ont totalement echoua, ce qui tient peu~tre a. ce que Leonie
ovait eprouve, dans 180 journae du dimanche, 16, une contrariete tres
ive.
Le ma.rdi soir, rentrant chez moi, je m' en rapporte au sort pour
iecider de l' heure, a.vec une latitude allant de 8 heures du matin a
5 heures du soir. Le sort designe 9 heures du matin.
J' agis donc sur Leonie de 9 heures 11 a. 9 heures 26. Puis, 80M de
ne pas lui donner l' eveil, je reate chez moi, sans chercher a. voir I' eft"et
de cette action. Dans Ia journee, c' estr&.dire, a 1 heure et demie
environ, je raconte cela a. un de mes amis qui est venu me voir, et je
lui explique comment j' essaye d' agir a. distance.
J e ne vais chez Leonie que Ie soir, a. 5 heures 10 minutes. Elle etait
en somnambulisme.
Je lui demande ce qu' elle a eprouve, et je lui fais raconter sea
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, &c. 35
impressions, sans lui donner, autant que cel", m'est possible, la moindre
indication sur ce que j' avais es8l\ye de faire. Le matin, me dit-elle,
en s' eveillant, elle s' est sentie prise toutr&-coup d' un grand mal de
tete. Elle pensait que ce mal de tete se dissiperait; elle a continue 1
s' habiller. Ella est descendue 10 minutes environ apres Ie debut
de son mal de tete. Mais, quelques minutes apres ~tre descendue, Ie
mal de tete lIougmentant toujours, elle est remonree dans SIlo chambre,
s' est etendue sur son lit tout habillee, n' ayant pas III. force de se
deshabiller. Jama.is pareille chose ne lui est arrivee pendant les 30
jours qu' elle a passes 8 Paris.
L' heure exacte 1 laquelle Leonie est descendue est tres importante
a connaitre. J' ai eu grand peine 1 III. determiner; car personne,
Leonie pas plus que les autres, ne soupqonnait qu' il y eut quelque
inte~t 8 preciser l' heure. J e fais alors une sorta d' enqu~te sans que
rien puisse faire presumer l' heure 1 laquelle, de chez moi, j' avais agi.
Leonie dit ~tre descendue 1 9 h. 10. Madame Ferrari dit 9 heures 5.
La. domestique dit 9 heures 30, et M. Ferrari dit 9 heures 30. La.
moyenne de ces quatre chiffres tres differents est donc de 9 heures 20. Si
l' on admet que Ie mal de tete a commence de 5 8 10 minutes aupara.-
vani;, soit 8 minutes, nous trouvons que Ie debut de l' action est 8 9
heures 12; chiffre qui concorde tout-Il.-fait avec l' action que j' avais
essaye de produire 1 9 heures 11.
II me semble que, pour toute personne non prevenue, il y a Iii. soit
une action 1 distance, soit une etonnante COIncidence. Rien ne pouvait
faire penser Leonie 8 l' heure de 9 heures, puiilque je l'ignorais moi·
meme et que je l' ai tiree au sort. Si ella avait voulu inconsciemment
me tromper, elle ellt ere bien imprudente; car elle ne sa.vait pas que je
l' endormirais ce mercredi, 19, et d' autre part elle ne pouvait prevoir
l' heure. Pendant tout son sejour a Paris, une seule fois elle est
remontee dans sa. chambre aU88itat apres son lever, et c' est ce
jour 11 prtScisement que j' ai e88aye de I' endormir 8 9 heures du
matin.
Mais reprenons Ie rtScit de ce qu' a senti ce jour 11 Leonie. Vers
midi, on entre dans sa. chambre, et on la trouve coucMe tout habilltSe
sur son lit. Elle ne veut pall descendre dejeuner. On la laisse, et on
est etonne de la voir 1 1 heure 35 minutes-on a determine exactement
I' heure--descendre en etat de somnambulisme.
II est certain que je n'ai pas essaye de I' endormir 1 1 heure et demie,
et que par consequent ce n' est pas 18 un effet bien evident. Mais, 1 1
heure et demie, j' ai fait les gestes que je fais d' ordinaire quand je veux
I' endormir 1 distance. J' ai ra.conte 8 mon ami E. comment je concen·
trais rna volonte, tantOt en serrant les poings, tantat en etendant les
bras, dans la direction on est Leonie. En faisant toute cette demon
stration,-assez ridicule, je I'avoue,-il estp088ible que je ne sois pasresre
D 2
Digitized by Coogle
36 Relation de Divel'ses Experiences, J:c.
maitre de ne pas agir. II y a dono eu produotion du somnambulisme
sans volonte formelle de mil. part, et a. oe point de vue l' experience est
defeotueuse. Mais elle est excellEmte a. un autre point de vue, et tres
demonstrative. A9 heures 11, assai d'aotion. A9 heures 12 Leonie,
nullement avertie, eprouve une lassitude et une fatigue extremes. Ce
n' est pas tout-8.-fait Ie somnambulisme; 0' est III. somnolenoe; mm une
somnolence si profonde que pour III. plus legere cause additionnelle Ie
vrai somnambulisme a suivi.
Qu' on remarque aussi que Leonie s' etait endormie a. 1 heure 35.
Asupposer que Ie tirage au sort eftt designe 4 heures, l' experience
eut ete funeste pour III. demonstration d' une action a. distance,
puisque elle se serait endormie avant au lieu de s'endormir apes.
II est remarquable qu' il n' y a jamais eu dans mes experiences avee
Leonie d' echeo de ce genre, oe qui eftt tout oompromis.
Un autre fait est a. noter, qui ne I"isse pas que d'avoir une certaine
importance, 0' est que oe sommeil inoomplet, ebauohe, insuffisant, a rendu
Leonie assez malade. Dans III. nuit du meroredi au jeudi, elle a eu un
mal de tete ties violent, et, toute III. journoo de jeudi, elle a ete fort
souffrante. Le vendredi mllme elle etait enoore moins bien portante
que d' habitude.
En resume, cette experienoe me parait litre un sucoes, mais un
suooes incomplet. Toutefois, je prefere, pour mil. part, comma je l' ai
dit au debut, ces suooes inoomplets, mais en des oonditions soientitiqueos
irreproohables, a. des succes de plus brillante apparanoe; il importe
assez peu que Ie sommeil complet, absolu, ait ete provoque; ce qui est
interessant, c' est de savoir s' il ya eu reellement une action a. distance
quel qu' en soit I'effet. Or, dans ce cas, a. moins de supposer une
oOlncidence-et nous avons vu que c' est nssez invraisemblable-il faut
admettre une action a. distanoe.
Stptwne Experience.I-Pour Leonie, lajournoo du vendredi, moins
penible que celie. du jeudi, l'avait cependant laissoo fort souffrante
encore. De mon cote, j' avais ete ce jour Ia. tres oocupe, si bien que je
ne pus arriver chez M. Ferrari qu' a. 6 heures 10. Je devais aller au
theAtre Ie soir et I\lors je dis a. Leonie que je ne l' endormirais pas.
Leonie rentre dans la cuisine, et dit a. III. domestique: "M. Riohet n' a
1 On excusera les details dana lesquels je suis force d' entrer. Maie de parei1s
recite ne valent que par Ie detail. J' avais ecrit une lettre aM. Guml'Y lui rapportant
mea experiences. Cetta lettre n' etait pas destinee alitre publiee ; at, en outre, comme
j' avais voulll Hfe tree bref, j'ai ete, par Ie fait meme de la brievettl, assez inexact, de
aorta que je demande ace qu' on ne tienne compte que de ce que j'tlcris ici, l'autre
lettre-Journal of the Society for Psychiral Relt?arch, Octobre, 1881, p. 150-etant trop
oourte pour etre exacta, et n' etant pas destinee a la Jlublication, par consequeut
devant seulement indiquer Ie sene des experiences, tandis que Ie rtlcit que je donne
ici est Ie resume exact de mea notes, plises Ie jour meme apres chaque.experience.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiversetJ Experiences, tf:c. 37
plus besoin de moi apparemment, puisque il ne veut pas m' endormir.
J e partirai dimauche."
Au moment de partir, pendant que je causais sur Ie seuil de Ia
porte avec Madame Ferrari, l'idee me vient soudain d' essayer ce jour
meme Ie sommeil adistance. Aprea un instant d' hesitation je dis tout
haut aMadame Ferrari: CI Taut pis pour l' Opera. La. science l' ernporte.
Je vais essayer d' endormir Leonie." Je ferme Ia porte avec bruit,
commA si j' etais parti, et je rentre doucement dans Ie salon, Madame
Ferrari m' accompagnant. Puis Madame Ferrari rentre dans sa chambre,
et je lui recommande expressement de ne voir ni Leonie ni Ia domes-
tique, de peur de donner l' eveil par quelque attitude ou quelques
paroles.
n etait alors 6 heures 20 minutes. J' essaye d' agir sur Leonie. A
6 heures 25 je l' entends qui traverse l' anti-chambre et qui monte dans
sa chambre. J e continue l' action jusqu' a6 heures 34. Ace moment
Madame Ferrari rentre dans Ie salon. Je lui dis de faire descendre
Leonie par l' intermediaire de Ia domestique. Alors Madame Ferrari
dit aIa domestique, CI Priez Leonie de descendre. II fait froid, et elle
pourrait se rendre mala.de dans sa chambre sans feu." La. domestique
ne Be doute pas un instant que je suis reste, et elle va trouver Leonie
dans sa chambre. A 6 heures 38, Leonie redescend. J' avais cesse
d' agir sur elle de 6 heures 34 a6 heures 42. A 6 heures 42 je recom-
mence aessayer d' agir, jllBqU' a6 heures 55.
Leonie est alors dans la cuisine, .avec Ia domestique, qui me croit, ou
pluMt me sait parti. Le salon est assez eloigne de Ia cuisine pour
qu' on ne puisse savoir ce qui s' y passe ni rien entendre. Madame
Ferrari est avec moi da.ns Ie salon.
A 6 heures 45 Leonie, causa.nt a.vec Ia domestique, lui dit qu' elle a
fort envie de dormir et qu' elle est toute trembla.nte. Pour eviter Ie
Bommeil, elle essaye de se mettre Ies ma.ins dans l' eau, moyen qu' eUe
emploie d' habitude qua.nd elle veut emp&:her Ie sommeil a distance;
mais eela n'a. a.ucun effet. Alors la domestique lui conseille de se
mouiller Ia tete et Ie front avec de l' eau froide. Heureusement
Leonie ne suit pas ce conseil; car c' est, parait-il, une cause de
~se violente quand elle est da.ns cette situation.
Alor&, vers 6 heures 49, elle s' asseoit, s' accoude sur la table de
cuisine, sa tete reposant sur sa main ga.uche, et elle cesse de causer
avec la domestique. A 6 heures 52, Mada.me Ferrari entre da.ns 180
cuisine, et elle trouve Leonie dans cette position, la tete a.ppuyee
sur la main gauche. Elle vient m' a.vertir de ce resultat, sans avoir
rien dit ni a la domestique ni aLeonie endormie.
.A 6 heures 55 je rentre dans 180 cuisine et je trouve Leonie
endonnie, en complet 8Omna.mbulisme. Je lui dis de se lever et de
nnir pres de moi dans Ie salon. Elle me dit, CI Pourquoi n'avez vous
, Digitized by Coogle
3M lUlat,Wn de Dive/'se8 Expe1'ienCe8, &c.
pas attendu 1 J' a.llais venir toute seule dans Ie salon, puisque VOUB
m' appeliez."
Cette experience me parait tree bonne. En efi'et, Leonie n' a pas pu
se douter de ma presence, et 180 domestique, qui n' avait pas quitte
Leonie, ne savait pas que j' etais reste. D' ailleurs elle ne pouvait Ie
savoir, puisque absolument rien-A ma. connaissa.nce du moina-ne
pou\'ait trahir ma presence. D' autre part mes paroles, quand j' ai
quitte Leonie a. 6 heurea 25, ne pouvaient rien lui reveler; car j' etais
absolument persuade que j'allais partir sans faire d' essa.i d' aucune
aorte.
Si bonne qu' elle 8Oit, cette experience a encore un cote defectueux,
c' est que ce soir 18. Leonie n' avait pas ete endormie. Or je l' endormais
presque tous lea 8Oirs. D' autre part, il a pu se produire tel fait
inconnu completement de moi-mais celli. importe peu-qui a appris a..
Leonie inconsciente que j' etais reste. De la. a. supposer que je \'oulais
l' endormir, il n' y a pas loin. Aussi, quoique l' hypothese d' une
perspiCa.cite inconsciente soit a.ssez invraisemblable, i1 ne faut pas
l' ecarter completement, et cette experience qui parait au premier abord
meilleure que l' experience precedente, est plus brillante; ma.is, a. mon
sens, moins irreprochable.
Huitieme E~erience.-Je ne cherche a. endormir Leonie ni Ie samedi,
ni Ie dimanche, et, chaque fois que j' arrive, je 180 trouve tout-8.-fait
eveilIee. Le lundi matin; chez moi, je tire au sort pour decider l' beure
a. laquelle je dois agir. Le sort <Msigne 2 heuras. C' est une beure
aussi incommode pour moi que pour elle. J'ai ete sur Ie point d' y
renoncer, ma.is, toute reflexion faite, je me dis que ce serait un non sens,
puisque precisement Ie tirage au sort a pour effet de designer des beures
qui ne peuvent pas lltl'e prevuea d' avance.
Le lundi, chez moi, de I heure 38 a. 1 heure 50, j' essa.ye d' endor-
mir Leonie. J' arrive chez M. Ferrari a. 2 beu~ 5. Comme il m' avait
donne 180 clef de son appartement, j' entre sans faire de bruit, et je vais
trouver Madame Ferrari dans sa cbambre. Alors Madame Ferrari va.
voir ou en eat Leonie. Leonie est en etat de somnambulisme incomplet.
Elle a las yaux fermes, at ne travaille plus a. un bas qu' elle reprisait;
mais elle repond encore aux questions que Madame Ferrari lui adresse.
De 2 beures 5 a. 2 beures 15 je fais effort pour rendre Ie sommeil plus
pl'Ofond, et 180 faire venir dans Ie salon ou je sWs. Mais je n' y
reussis pas. A 2 heures 15, Madame Ferrari va chercher Leonie et
l' amtme dans Ie salon. Je m' etais cache dans une petite piece noire
a.ttenant au salon. Leonie arrive en somnambulisme, lea yeux fermas,
se heurtant contre las murs, disa.nt, "Maisje auis eveillee,je auis eveilUe ",'
ce qui prouve qu' elle ne l' etait pas. Elle se laisse asseoir sur un
fa.uteuil et couvrir d'un manteau pour ne pas avoir froid.
J e m' etais cache pendant ce temps dans une petitesalle absolument
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiveTBe8 Experiences, d:c. 39
obscure, attenant au salon, et je ne faisais aucun bruit. De Ii, je
pouvais observer Leonie, et mil. presence ne pouvait etre souP90nnee.
Alora je fais effort pour Ill. decider & Be lever et & venir vera moi dans
Ie petit cabinet OU je me trouvais. Mais ce fut sans Ie moindre succes.
L&>nie resta assise dans Ie fauteuil. Je Ill. voyais par la fente de la
porte. Elle etait immobile, les yeux fermes; elle tenait son ouvrage
& la main, mais ne travaillait pas. Au bout de 5 minutes, & 2 heures
20, je sora du cabinet ou j' etais cache, et je Ill. trouve en etat de
somnambulisme.
Alora je lui demande & queUe heure ('lIe s' est endormie. Elle me
dit que c' est & 1 heure 20. A 1 heure, apres Ie dejeuner, flUe s' est
retiree dans Ill. lingerie, et elle s' est mise, dit elle, & travailler, &
repriser un bas. L' heure de 1 heure est certaine, d' apres les declara-
tions de Leonie, de 1110 domestique et de Madame Ferrari. Mais l' heure
de 1 heure 20 n' est pas certaine; puisque elle ne depend que du
temoignage de Leonie. Si cette heure etait exa.cte, j' aurais 1& un gros
echee, Ie sommeil etant, dans ce cas, survenu avant que j' aie essaye de
Ie provoquer.
Heureusement une circonstance speciale m' a permis d' etablir avec
une precision, relativement tres grande, l' heure & laquelle Leonie a dft
s' endormir. Elle tenait, comme je l' ai dit, un bas & 180 main, et
Ie reprisait. Or on peut admettre que pendant son somnambulisme
elle est & peine capable de travailler & l' aigtlille. De fait, sauf dans
des circonstances exceptionnelles, elle ne travaille &I' aiguille que tant
qu' elle est eveilltie. Par consequent, Ill. meaure du travail execute par
elle donne Ill. mesure du temps pendant lequel elle est restee eveillee.
Or on savait l' endroit ou Ie bas & repriser etait reste non reprise la
veilla. J' ai donc fait une sorta d' enquete pour savoir combien il
£aut de temps pour repriser la quantite du bas qui a ete reprisee,
& partir de 1 heure.
D' apres la domestique, qui travaille, il est vrai, tres lentement, il
£aut 1 heure et demie. D' apres Madame Ferrari, il faut plus
longtemps encore, presque trois heuras. Enfin, d' apres Leonie, dont Ie
temoignage, en pareil cas, est Ie plus important, puisque il s' agit de
son propre travail et du temps qu' elle a mis, il faut trois quarts
d' heure. On peut donc supposer qu' une duree de 45 minutes environ
s' est ecoulee entre Ie moment ou Leonie est enliree dan'! 180 lingerie, et
Ie moment ou, cMant au sommeil, elle a commence &s' endormir.
II est clair que dans cette enquete, j' ai evite, autant que j' ai pu, de
donner une indication quelconque sur l' heure &la.quelle j' avais agio
J e reviendrai tout & I'heure sur Ill. discussion de cette experience. J e
dois d' abord mentionner un autre fait qui se place entre la huitieme et
la neuvieme experience.
La mardi, 25 Janvier, je n' avais fait aucune tentative de sommeil
Digitized by Coogle
40 Relat·in.n de DiverseB Experiences, &c.
adistance. PourtR.nt, quand j' arrivai, je trouvai Leonie endormie.
Mais son etat etRit un peu difl'erent de son etat ordinaire de somnam-
bulisme; elle ne repondait qu' avec peine a mes questions, et las
yeux, II.U lieu d' @tre fermes, n' etaient qu' &demi-clos. Elle tenait &I",
main une montre en or que je lui avais donnee la veilla. Ce n' etait pas
d' ailleurs Ie cadran qu'elle regardait, maia la boite, .qu' elle fixait
obatinement. Spontanement elle me dit: "Ce n' est pas vous qui
m' avez endormie, c' est votre montre," et, comme j' insiatais, elle a per-
sillte dans son affirmll.tion. Or, comme M. Janet et M. Gibert l' ont
remarque depuislongtemps, les objets metalliques brillants et notamDlent
)' or et les bijoux, la font tomber en somnambulisme. II est donc
vraisemblable qu'il y a eu Ill. un efl'et analogue.
Neuvieme Experience.-Ce m@me jour, a 6 heures 50, je reveille
Leonie, et je prends conge d' elle; mais, au lieu de partir, je me Cll.Che
dans Ie salon, et j' essaye de l' endormir. De 6 heures 55 a. 7 heurea
10, je n'ai obtenu aucun efl'et appreciable. C' est donc un insucces
complet; maia il y avait Iii. une condition speciale. Elle venait d' etre
reveillee, et peut-@tre, dans ce cas, Ie sommeil a. distance ne peut-il @tre
amene. II est aussi inMressant de constater que rna presence dll.Ds 111.
maison ne suffit pas. J e ne ru' etais pas mieux cache Ie jour de 1&
septieme experience, et les conditions ont eM les memes, sauf Ie fait
d' avoir eM recemment reveillee.
Si maintenant nous prenons les trois bonnes experiences, c' ('.at-a·
dire III. sixieme, Ia. septieme et la huitieme, et Hi nous leur appliquons
une severe critique experimentale, nous trouverons qu' elles ne sont
pas irreprochables isoIement, mais que par leur ensemble ellea con-
stituent une'preuve tres forte en faveur d' une n.ction a. distRnce.
Dans In. sixieme experience, l' heure a eM tiree au sort, et rien n' &
pu mettre Leonie sur 10. voie. Deux minutes environ apres que j' ai
essaye d' agir, elle a commence a ressentir les efl'ets du sommeil. Mais
ces efl'ets n' ont pas eM un veritable sommei\. Q' a eM seulement de
111. somnolence et de III. cephalalgie. Cela ne signifierait absolument
rien, si, a d' autres jours, Leonie II.vait eprouve pareille somnolence et
pareille cephalalgie, assez fortes pour l' empecher de descendre dejeuner.
Mais, comme je I' ai dit deja, ct' 0. ~te Ie seul jour ou elle ne soit pas
descendue pour dejeuner. II y a donc Ill. une cOIncidence biE\D
etonnante, ou bien une action a distance.
Dans III. septieme experience, l' heure n' a pas ete tiree au sort; mais
elle 0. eM decidee par moi ex abn"pro, tout-a-fait inopinement, sans que
rien ait pu en avertir Leonie, puisque je ne me suis decide qu' apres
que Leonie II. ete partie. La seulc objection-tres serieuse-qu' Oil
puisse faire a ce succes, c' est qu~ Leonie, par un moyen que .i' ignore,
s' est doutee dEl mil. presence. A coup sur ce n' est pas Leonie con-
sciente, qui l'ignorait certainement, mai.. nous Sll.vons qu'il fl\ut se
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Diverses Expb-iences, &:c. 41
mefier des notions inconscientes, bien autrement perspicaces que nos
notions conscientes. II est 8. 111. rigueur possible que Leonie inconsciente
se soit doutee de rna presence, qui a completement echappe aussi bien
8. Leonie consciente qu' 8. III. domestique. Mais celli. meme est assez
invraisemblable; car elle a chercbe 8. se soustraire au sommeil par les
moyens dont elle dispose. Enfin, au lieu de venir me trouver dans
Ie salon ou j' etais, elle est re~tee dans III. cuisine, penchee sur III. table,
et n' est pas venue vers moi, comme elle l' eut fait certainement si, par
un procMe quelconque, elle s' etait Ie moins du monde doutee de rna
presence.
La. huitieme experience a un autre defaut. II est certain que
I' heure de mon arrivee a ete inopinee; car l' heure de 2 heures avait
ete tiree au !lort et etait peu habituelle. A l' extreme rigueur, on
peut admettre que Leonie m' a entendu entrer. Je sais bien que
c' est une hypothese peu vraisemblable: Leonie ne savait pas que M.
Ferrari m' avait donne 111. clef de son appartement; Madame Ferrari
eUe-meme l' ignorait, et je n' ai pas fait Ie moindre bruit en entrant.
La 1ingerie flSt de plus assez loin de III. porte d' entree.
II y a un c6te plus defectueux encore. Le caicul de I' heure par
l' etendue de III. reprise faite au bas est un caIcuI fait apres coup, ce qui
lui ate beaucoup de valeur. J e ferai cependant remarquer Ies deux
faits suivants; Leonie, meme inconsciente, ne se doutait assurement
pas de rna presence; car, pendant qu' elle etait endormie dans Ie sa.lon,
et que je 1'0bsenais, cache dans Ie petit cabinet attenallt au salon,
elle n' a pas un instant essaye de se lever et de venir a moi ou de me
chercher. Je dois donc admettre qu' elle ne savait pas que j' etais la.
Ainsi ce qui est un echec au point de vue de 111. suggestion a distance
est en realite une preuve de plus, et une preuve excellente, qu' il n' y a
pas eu connaissance Iatente de rna presence. Enfin, remarquons que
Leonie, en 's' endormant 8. 1 heure, se serait t~ut-a-fait compromise.
L' beure etant tiree au sort, il etait possible que l'heure designee fut 3
ou 4 ou 5 heures, auquel cas l' echec eut ete complet et grave.
Quant al' heure de 1.20, indiquee par Leonie, elle n'est pas en accord
avec I' heure rrelle. Mais alors comment expliquer qu' elle· a
trava.ilIe ason bas pendant trois quarts d' heure au moins 1 II me paratt
plus simple d' admettre qu' elle ne s' est pas rendu compte de l' heure
et du temps, et en fait de mesure, je prefere III. mesure automatique
d' un travail 8. I'aiguille, 8. III. mesure variable et inexacte que donne
l' appreciation approximative du temps.
En resume, et comme resultat general de ces trois experiences,
pour admettre qu'il n' y a pas eu d' action 8. distance, il fnudrait supposer
d' abord cette etrange cOincidence d' une somnolence cephalalgique sur-
venant a 9 h. 13, alors que j' ai essaye de l' endormir a 9 h. II-heure
tiree au sort; de plus, que Leonie inconsciente IJI' a entendu, alors que
igitized by Goog
42 Relat';,on de Diverses Expe-riences, &:c.
Leonie consciente ct la. domestique ne se doutaient aucunement de ma.
presence, puis que, m' ayant entendu, elle ait pousse l' astuce jusqu'a
ne pas me, chercher, quoique sachant que je fusse lA.. Entin il
faudrait que, Ie jour suh'ant, elle m' eut entendu ent~r, sans se
demander comment j' entrais sans sonner, et sans essayer de me chercher
dans la maison ou elle m' aurait su present.
ee sont l8., on l' avouera, des hypotheses bien invraisemblables, et
elles me paraissent moins simples que l' hypothese d' une action a.
distance qui semblait d' ailleurs appuyee solidement avant mes
experiences par un ensemble satisfaisant d' observations precises. 1
Quoique les faits que je rapporte soient moins nets a certains ega.rds
que ceux qu' on trouvera dans les ouvrages que je cite, j' ai tenu
pourtant a les relater en detail, car j' ai fait toutes les critiques lea plus
severes qu' on puisse faire, et ce n' est qu 'apres avoir suppose tout un
ordre d' illusions ou d' erreurs de ma part que j' ai pu detinitivement
conclure a une action a distance. Il faut en effet non seulement se
metier des autres, ce qui est facile, mais encore, ce qui est bien plus
difficile, se metier de soi-meme, des indications qu' on donne, et de cette
tendance irresistible a vouloir f&ire reussir une experience. Mais
malgre cel&, on ne doit pas fermer les yeux a l' evidence. Or, pour
les faits que je rapporte, l' absurdite me parait etre de nier l' action a
distance et de faire cinq ou six suppositions ridicules.
Ainsi, sans que j' aie pu avoir une experience decisive, irreprochable?
j' ai trois experiences tres concordantes qui rendent vraisembla.ble Ie
fait d' une action 8. distance. Probablement d' autres experimentateurs,
ala fois plus habiles et plus heureux, arriveront a des resultats meilleurs.
Mais, des maintenant, il me semble qu' on peut conclure.
Je noterai encore deux experiences faites par M. Paul Janet en ma
presence pendant Ie mois de Septemhre, 1886.
Dans une premiere experience, avant d' avoir vu Leonie, je me
trouve avec M. Janet Ie samedi a midi, a dejeuner. Nous d6cidons
ensemble que 1\1. Janet essayera d' endormir Leonie 8. distance, vers
3 heures et demie, chez lui, a 1 kilometre environ de la maison ou
demeure Leonie, sallS qu'il ait pu 180 voir depuis Ie moment ou nous
avons pris cette resolution; il fait effort pour I' endormir de 3 heures
33 a 3 heures 45. Puis nous arrivons chez elle, 8. 4 heures precises.
Elle est endormie, et en etat de somnambulisme. Elle dit alors aM.
Janet, " Vous m' avez endormie a 3 heures et demie; il etait 3 heures et
demie passees; mais tres pres de 3 heures et demie." L' experience a.
donc tres bien reussi.
Je tis 8. M. Janet deux observations; 180 premiere, c' est que l' heure
1 Pour cas diverses observations, je renvoie aux Bulletifll tk la SooiiU d~ PIIYCM-
logic Ph.!lIiologiqw, au livre de M. Ochorovicz, Sur la Sugge.t«m NcntaJ.e, et am:
Phantalml of the .Living, T. XI., p. 682.
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiV6Tses Experi.ences, &c. 43
de 3 heures et demie etait l' heure 'habituelle ou on ]' endormait; 10.
seconde c' est qu' en nous voyant arriver a4 heures tous 1es deux elle
pouvait se douter qu' immediatement aupara.vant on avait essaye d' agir
sur elle. II conviendrait donc de changer l' heure du sommeil, sans
changer l' heure de notre arrivee.
Je ne fis ces observations que Ie lendemain a 2 heures et demia,
quand j' allai voir M. Janet. Alors il fait effort pour andormir
Leonie un peu plus tOt, c' es~re, de 3 heures a 3 heures 12. Nous
restons alors encore une demi-heure chez M. Janet, sans al1er rue
de la Ferme, OU demeure Leonie. II est 4 heures quand j' y arrive, et
j' arrive seul, de maniere a ce qu' el1e puisse supposer que c' est a ce
moment milme que M. Janet l' endort, et que je suis venu pour voir
comment Ie sommeil survient pendant qu' on essaye de I' endormir.
Sans rien dire de l' heure a 1aquel1e nous avions essaye d' agir,
j' apprends de Mademoiselle Gibert, chez qui demeurait Leonie, qu' a 3
he~res elle etait reveillee, mais que, vers 3 heures 10, elle etait probable-
!Dent endormie; car ace moment ses allures ont completement change,
et, au lieu de rester da.ns Ie jardin, elle est entree dans Ie petit salon
ou elle se tient d' habitude quand elle est en somnambulisme. In-
terrogee a son tour, Leonie a dit qu' elle s' est endormie vers 3
heures 20. Entre 3 heures 10 et 3 heures 20, si l' on prend 10.
moyenne, on arrive a3 heures 15, heure qui coincide tres bien avec
I' heure a. laquelle M. Janet a agio
Cette experience est donc extremement satisfaisante, puisque, e1\
eliminant 10. cause d' erreur qui existait pour l' experience de 10.
veille, noUB n' en avons pas moins obtenu Ie phenomene de l' action a
distance.
Depuis la. premiere publication de M. Janet dans les Bulleti'11.8 de
lCJ Societe de Pll'Jlc/wlogie, d' autres experiences ont eM faites par lui qui
confirment ses premiers resu1tats. M. Janet m' en a donne la notice
succincte, et m' a autorise ala publier ici.
En 1886.
8 Septembre, assai d' action a 3 heures.-Trouvee endormie a 4
heures. M. J. etait entre sans iltre vu et sans sonner a1& porte.
9 Septembre, 3 heures.-Echec. Quand M. J. arrive, elle se plaint
d' un fort mal de tete qui vient de 10. prendre.
11 Septembre, 9 heures.-:Echec. M. J. arrive a10 heures, et la.
trouve troub1ee et etourdie. Elle peut a peine repondre; mais ne
dort pas.
14 Septembre, 4 heures.-Arrivee de M. J. a4 heures 15. Leonie
pretend qu' elle etait endormie; mais que Ie coup de sonnette l' a
reveillee.
18 et 19 Septembre.-Succes. Ce' BOnt 1es deux experiences faites
avec moi que j' ai mentionnees plus haut.
Digitized by Coogle
44 Relation de DiVer8e8 Expe1oiences. tl:c.
23 Septembre, 2 heurf'-s.-Echec. Elle etait en promenade.
24 Septembre, 3 heures 15.-Trouvee endormie a. 4 heures. On l' a
vue eveilIee a. 3 heures 15.
26 Septembre, 3 heures.-Echec. Elle etait seule a. garder 180
maison, et se promenait au jardin pour ne pas dormir.
27 Septembre, 8 heures 30 du soir.-C· est M. Gibert qui l' '" endor-
mie de chez lui, et lui a commande de venir. FJle est sortie endormie
du pavilion quO elle habite, pour aller trouver M. Gibert, a. 9 heures 5.
29 Septembre, 3 heures 50.-Trouvee endormie a. 4 heures 5. On
l'avait vue eveillee a. 3 heures 30.
30 Septembre, 3 heures 30.-Echec. La bonne l' a vue reveillee au
moment ou elle allait s' endormir.
1 Octobre, 2 heures 40.-Echec. Elle etait en promenade.
5 Octobre, 4 heures.-Experience interessante. Elle c&usait avec
III. bonne dans Ie jardin, et s' est endormie subitement a. 4 heures 5.
L' heure a ete exactement notee.
6 Octobre, 3 heures.-Echec.
9 Octobre, 3 heures 15.-Echec.
100ctobre, 3 heures 20.-Trouvee endormie a. 4 heures 5.
12 Octobre, 3 heures.-Echec. Echec aussi d' une suggestion mentale
tentee a. distance.
13 Octobre, 5 heures.-Trouvee endormie. Execute a. l' a.rrivee de
M. J II.net une suggestion mentale faite a. distance, celle de se lever des
que M. 1. serait entre.
14 Octobre, 2 heures 30.-Trouvee endormie a. 3 heures 20. Execute
encore une petite suggestion (~)
16 Octobre, 3 heures. -Trouvee endormie a. 3 heures 30.
24 Novembre, 2 heures 30.
3 Decembre, 4 heures 10.
5 Decembre, 4 heures 10.-Ces trois experiences ont echoue.
6 Decembre, 4 heures 10.-Trouvee non endormie, mais se la.vant
les ma.ins, et resistant au sommeil.
7 Decembre, 2 heures 30.-Trouvee endormie a. 3 heures 5.
10 Decembre, 4 heures 20.-Echec. En promenade.
16 Decembre, 4 heures 15.-Trouvee endormie a. 4- heures. On l' a
vue eveilIee a. 3 heures 15.
13 Decembre, 4- heures 5.-Trouvee endormie a. 4 heures 25. On
l' a vue eveillee a. .. heures, et quelques minutes.
14 Decembre, 11 heures 30 matin.-Echec.
18 Decembre, 21 Decembre, et 22 Decembre.-:':;checs.
23 Decembre, 3 heures.-Trouvee endormie a. 3 heures 40.
25 Dccembre, 3 heures I5.-Experience interessante. C' etait Ie
jour de Noel, et elle ne s' attendait pas a. Iltre endormie. ll.
Janet alors a. l'improviste se decide a. agir. Ace moment Leonie se
Digitized by Coogle
·.Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, J:c. 45
promenait avec des camara.des sur 1& jetee. Elle est prise soudain d'une
grande migraine (vers 3 heures 20), et elle rentre precipitammeut rue
de 1& Ferme pour tomber endormie dans Ie salon.
Durant cette periode, il n' y a eu sommeil spontane que quatre
fois.
Pour terminer je ferai remarquer la constance du retard. D' abord,
dans mes experiences, pour six experiences qui ont plus ou moins
reussi, il y a eu un retard de 10, 20,3, 7, 25, 7 minutes, ce qui donne
une moyenne de 11 minutes apeu pres. Dans les deux expe,nences
faites avec M. Janet il y a eu un retard de 2 et de 15 minuteS. Dans les
10 principales experiences de M. Gibert et de M. Janet, il y a eu 10 fois
retard, avec une moyenne de 9 minutes environ. Dans les experiences
suivantes il y a eu auui constamment retard.
Si l' on voula.it appliquer aces faits Ie calcul des probabilites-dans
20 experiences, 20 fois retard-on arriverait aune probabilite si faible,
d' un millionieme, que ce serait la certitude; mais, en pareil cas, Ie
calcul des probabilitM est un leurre; car l' appreciation des heures est
tellement subordonnee a notre bonne foi, et si delicate a etablir
impartialement qu' il est imp088ible de lui appliquer Ie calcul, comme on
pourrait Ie faire si Ie sommeil commen~t a un moment precis,
determine fata1ement par un enregistreur automatique.
Mais, sans parler de probabilite matbematique rigoureuse, il est
permis de mettre en evidence ce fait frappant que, sur 20 experiences,
pas une seule fois il n' y a eu d' avance notable-je dis notable pour
mire 1& part des inexactitudes de nos constatations-tandis que toujours
il y eu retard.
En resume, merne en accumu1ant 1es faits des anciens magnetiseurs
(par exemple, celIe de 1a demoiselle Sanson endormie par Dupotet en
presence de Husson, et de Recamier en 1827), les observations de M.
Dusart, de M. Hericourt, de M. Gibert, de M. Janet et 1es miennes, nous
ne tenons pas une demonstration abso1ument inattaquab1e de I' action
adistance; mais nous avons, je pense, rendu Ie fait extrernernent
probable. n faudrait, pour renverser ce que nous avons etabli, trouver
que1que chose de nouveau qui expliquerait nos erreurs, nos illusions,
n08 observations defectueuses, et peut-litre l' etonnante serie de cOlnci-
dences, survenant chaque fois qu' on s' occupe de cette question avec des
sujets aptes asubir l' action adistance.
Trouver cette solution, ce sera une decouverte veritable, aussi im-
portante et aussi nouvelle que Ie fait de l' action adistance.
J' ai eu l' Occasion de refaire ces memes experiences sur Leonie au
mois de Janvier 1888. Mais ce1a a ete dans d' a.ssez mauvaises
conditions. En eifet, j' avais des preoccupations graves qui me
la.issaient peu de liberte d' esprit et en outre tres peu de temps etait a
ma disposition. Quant a Leonie, elle 6tait a.ssez mal portante, et
Digitized by Coogle
46 Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, cfc.
toujours peu docile, ce qui rend toutes les experiences faites avec elle
longues, laborieuses, et irritR.ntes.
Mon principal souci, dans cette seconde serie, a eM d' eviter toute
parole pouvant lui faire soupc;onner mon intention. Je ne lui ai meme
pas donne a penser que j' avais l' intention de faire sur elle d' autre
experience que l' etude des aimants. .
Leonie se trouvait chez M. Ferrari dans les memes conditions que
precedemment.
J e l' n.i endormie pour Is. premiere fois, dans cette serie d'experiences,
Ie 17 Decembre.
La 1 Janvier (apres l'avoir endormie 10 fois, du 17 Decembre au
1 Janvier), j' ai essaye d' agir adistance, a10 heures 20 du matin. Je
ne l' ai pas interrogee sur ce qu' elle a ou non ressenti; mais, comme
elle ne m' a rien dit, j' ai conclu qu' elle n' avait rien ressenti d'8. normal.
La 12 Janvier, j' essa.ye de l' endormir de 8 heures 58 a. 9 heures 8
du matin. Puis, 8. 10 heures 15, je vais chez elle; elle etait sortie.
Quand je 180 revois Ie soir, spontanement elle me dit: "Ce matin je me
allis sentie tout etourdie. J' ai eM a.lors porter une lettre 8. la posta
pour me de"aire," mais je ne veux pas insister sur l' heure exa.cte 8.
laquelle elle a senti cette action, pour ne pas lui donner I'eveil et lui faire
supposer que je vou1ais pratiquer cette experience. J e sais seulement
qu' elle s' est levee 8. 7 heures et demie, qu' elle etait parfaitement bien
portante en se levant, et qu' elle est sortie \'ers 10 heures-plutllt
avant 10 heures.
La 15 Janvier, apres avoir tire au sort l' heure a. laquelle je
devrais l' endormir, j' essaye d' agir sur elle de 4 heures 58 a. 5 heures
25. (II est possible que j' aie pense a. cette experience une demie heure
avant de l' endormir.) Quand j' arrive chez elle a. 5 heures 25, je 1a.
trouve dans lin etat different de son etat normal. Elle vient 8. JDoi,
et me dit avec une certaine hardiesse qui n' est pas du tout dans ses
habitudes, "M. Richet, j' ai tres mal a l' estomac depuis une heure."
Je cherche 8. lui faire croire que c' est son dejeuner qu' elle n' a pl\8
digere: mais elle me repond a. peine, et pendant que je lui parle, ses
yeux se ferment, et elle s' endort presque subitement. Cela ne se passe
jamais ainsi.
Endormie, elle me dit que j' avais pense aelle et qu' alors elle a bu
de l'eau froide pour se d1faire. Puis, comme je lui dis que jo ne
pensais pas a elle, elle ajouu qu' elle a bu parce qu' elle avait chaud,
s.yant dii depla.cer les meubles de sa chambre.
Reveillee, elle n' a conserve aucun 80uvenir de ce qu' elle m' a dit au
moment on je suis arrive. J e dois donc admettre qu' elle etait alO1'8,
comme je l' avais soup~onne, dans un etat special, assez different de
l' etat de veille, et proche de l' etat de somnambulisme. Cette experience
pent donc etre consideree comme un demi-succes. Malheureusement
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Di'IJeT8e8 ExperienceA, &c. 47
eat etat de demi-veille n' estpas suffisamment ca.racterise, pour permettre
une conclusion certa.ine.
La quatrieme experience a ete faite Ie 18 Janvier, de 1 heure 10 k
1 heure 25. Echec complet. Elle ne ro' a rien dit. Elle etRit alloo
mire une visite dans la journee. Elle s' est sentie tout etourdie vers 4
heures et demie.
Apartir de ce jour jusqu' au lundi, 23 Jam'ier, a9 heures du soir,
je ne'veux plus la voir ni la parler. Et je me contente d' agir sur elle
adistance, sans mettre qtd que ce soit dans ma confidence et en tirant
au sort les heures et les jours, auxquelles je dois faire l' experience. I.e
sort designe vendredi 4 heures ; samedi 1 heure; et lundi 3 heures.
Quand je vois Leonie Ie lundi soir, elle me dit qu' elle n' a eprouve
d' etret; ni Ie jeudi, ni Ie dimanche, ni Ie lundi, mais seulement Ie
vendredi et Ie samedi, Ie vendredi a 9 heures et demie du matin, et Ie
samedi a1 heure et demie de la journee.
Nons pouvons donc considerer cette experience du samedi comme
un succes ; mais malheureusement accompagne d' un echec grave, asavoir
Ie vendredi matin a9 heures, etret ressenti, alors que je n' II.vais ni agi ni
chercbe a &gir. Quant a l' echec du lundi, j' etRis fort preoccupe ce
jour 18, et j' ai ete derange aplusieurs reprises, pendant que je cherchais
a. l' endormir.
Cela nous fait en somme sur sept experiences cinq echecs
complets, assez graves 1es uns et Ies autres pour divers motifs, et deux
sucOOs. Ces deux suooes seraient abso1ument suffisants s'ils etaient
irreprochables; mais il n' en est pas ainsi; et Ie succes complet, avec un
sommeil profond, irrecusable, survenant exactement al' heure de mon
action, n' a pas ete obtenu.
n est bon d' ajouter, ainsi que je Ie disais en commen'iaDt, que je
n' ai pu donner aces experiences tout Ie temps qu'il eftt fallu y con-
sacrer; des prOOccupations d' un tout autre ordre m' emp&haient de
penser aLeonie, comme il aurait fallu Ie faire pour reussir.
n faut noter que du 17 Decembre au 25 Janvier, jour de son
depart de Paris, pas une seule fois elle n' a eu de sommeil spontane.
Ainsi cette derniere serie d' experiences n' apporte aucun appui bien
serieux aux precedentes; mais elle ne 1es infirme nullement; car, dans
lea deux experiences qui ont reussi, il n' y avait pII.8 de supercherie, ou
d' auto-suggestion possible. Ce qui a manque, c' est Ie fait d' un
sommeil profond, caracteristique, qui donne un signe irrecusable, dont
la valeur ne peut 6tre revoquee en doute.
CHAPITRE V.
EXPERIENCES D' ACTION ..\ DISTANCE J'AITES SUR D' AUTRES 8UJETS.
J' ai essaye nombre de fois sur des sujets divers l' action adistance,
et j'ai presque toujours echoue, sauf dans Ie cas de Leonie et aussi,
Digitized by Coogle
48 Relation de DiverBes Experiences, &c.
il Ya 15 ans, chez une femme dont j' ai rapporte l' observation dans lea
B"lletins de la Societe de Psychologie Pkynologique.
Ces echecs sont importants asignaler; car, s'il s' agissait simplement.
d' une supercherie, consciente ou non, ou d' une illusion de notre part,
nous devrions voir les succes se multiplier. II n' en est rien. Le
nombre des su;ets sur lesquels on peut agir a distance reste tres
limite.
Je noterai atitre de documents quelques fa.its de ce genre obtenus
sur dh'erses personlles.
En Mai, 1884, quelques uns de mes arnis et moi, preoccupea de ces
questions, et sorlant d' une soiree ou nous avions vu des fa.its de
spiritisme extraordinaires et probablement apocryplies, noUB convenons
d' agir adistance sur l' un de nous (M. Ferrari), que nous eloignons pour
un instant. Nous ne Ie prevenons aucunement ni de l' heure ni du
jour, ni de l' action a exercer. Nous etiona trois a. penser a. cette
suggestion 8. distance-M. Louis Olivier, M. Gaston Fournier, et moi.-
II est convenu que Ie lendemain, amidi, nous penserions aH. Ferrari,
et que IlOUS lui ferions fa.ire un dessin. Je suis abBolument Bar qUtl H.
Fel'rari n' a pu deviner ce que nous avions dit, et que personne ne lui
en a parle.
D' ailleurs, Ie lendemain a. midi, il se trouva que moi seul pensais a
cette suggestion a distance. A. midi je formu1&i tres nettement 10.
suggestion d' Ull dessin 8. faire.
Le soir, causant avec H. Ferrari, je lui demande s'il n' a rien fait
de remarquable dans 1& joumee. 11 me dit que 1& suggestion annoncee
n' a pas eu lieu. J'insiste pour lui demander ce qu'il a fait 8. midi.
II me dit qu'il venait de dejeuner. Alors, impatiente, je lui demande :
"As-tu fait un dessin 1"_u Au fait, c' est vrai," me dit-i1, CI j' ai fait un
dessin pour mon fils." Et il me montre un petit paysage 8. 1& plume,
qu'it a. fait 8. midi apres son dejeuner.
y a-toil 18. coincidence 1 J e n' ose Ie nier; mais en general H.
Ferrari ne dessine pas. II ne fait peut-etre pas trois fois da.ns l' ann&>
un dessin aussi complique que ce paysage.
J' ai essaye encore trois fois sur H. Ferrari cette suggestion 8.
distance, mais je l' ai fait seul, c'est-8.--dire, sans qu' aucune personne fUt
dana Ill. confidence. Deux fois j' ai echoue. II s' agissait pour lui
d' acheter un journal en sortant de chez lui Ie ma.tin. Comme ce n' est
pas dans ses habitudes, Ie fait aurait ete tres prooont. Mais l' echec
a ete complet.
L' autre experience a ete faite au mois d' Aoil.t 1884. Je lui donne,
mentalement et 8. distance, c'est-8.--dire, sans que nous soyions en
presence I' un de l' autre, la suggestion de parler d' une jeu11e fiUe qu'il
avait connue jadis, Clemence X., alaquelle certainement ni lui ni moi
110US ne pensons deux fois dans I' annee. Or l' experience a reusai
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverse8 Ercpbiences, J:c. 4!')
fort bien, car, ce m8me jour, il a parle de Mademoiselle Clemence
avec un de sea amis.
J e sais bien qn' on peut expliquer cela par une co'incidence fo~uite.
Mais alors c' est une bien etonnante serie de cOIncidences.
J' ai peut~tre fait sur d' autres personnes 5, 6, 7 ou 8 fois des expe.-
riences d' action a. distance, et bien souvent elles ont echoue; je vais
cependant en rapporter quelques une&, ou Ie succes a ete &lIsez interes-
saut. Le lundi soir, 16 Fevrier 1885, je me trouve a. une soiree chez
Madame de B. avec Mademoiselle de G. 11 est convenu que je ferai
sur Mademoiselle de G. une experience de suggestion a. distance, portant.
sur n'importe quel jour, n'importe queUe heure, pour n'importe quel
acta.
Ignorant encore ce que je veux faire, je dis a. Madame de G.: "11
faut qu'il Yait comme uu symbole materiel d' action commune. L' objet.
materiel servira au transfert de 1110 pensee." Alors nous prenons une
carte de visite, et sur cette carte nous tScrivons mon nom, puis nous
partageons 1& carte en deux, et Mademoiselle de G. et moi, nous en
prenons chacun un fragmont.
En sortant du salon, je dis a. Madame de B. et a. M. Ie Docteur C. :
" Voici ce que j' ai vowu que demain fasse Mademoiselle de G. 11 faut
qu' elle prenne cette carte et 1& jette au feu." Mais je ne dis rien
de l' heure a laquelle il faut &gir, et je recommande a mes deux inter-
locuteurs de ne rien dire et de ne rien laisser soupc;onner. 11 va de soi
que je suis sUr de leur bonne foi et de leur sagacite. Pourt.ant j' eusse
evidemment mieux fait de ne leur rien dire du tout. .
Mademoiselle de G., rentree chez elle, ne peut dormir. Elle a toute
1110 nuit des cauchemars douloureux; Ie matin, en se levant, vers 10
heures, elle voit sur sa table 1110 carte dtSchiree qui lui a, pense.t-elle, fait
passer une si mauvaise nuit. Alors, irritee contre cette carte inoffensive,
elle 1& prend et 1& jette au feu. Elle 1110 regarde brftier dans Ie feu
jnsqu' a ce que tout Ie papier soit consume. Puis, dans 1& journee, elle
va voir Madame de M., qui ne sait pas ce dont il s' agit, et elle lui dit .
"Je ro' imagine que M. Richet va 8tre fAche contre moi; car, au lieu de
mire son experience, j'ai jete sa carte dans Ie feu."
Or precisement, Ie mardi matin 17 Fevrier, a 10 heures precises,
j'avais pris 1& carte, et je l'avais jetee dans Ie feu. J' avais m~me
suivi des yeux ]e papier qui brfrlait, jusqu' a ce que tout ait ete con-
sume. Le fait de jeter 1110 ca.rte au feu etait l'acte que j'BVaiS mentale-
ment. suggere a MBdemoiselle de G., et on voit q~e ]e succes avait
suivi.
Quelque interessante que soit cette experience, elle a un grave defaut,
" c'est que Madame de B. tlt M.C. connaissaientce que je voulais faire. Or,
Hi je ne suis pas sur de moi,a plus forte raison ne suis-je pas sur des
autres. La bonne foi consciente de Mad. de G. est entiere, mais de sa
E
Digitized by Coogle
50 .RPlation de DivI!I1'8es Expbu'/Wes, J:c.
bonne foi illconsciente, pas plus que pour toute autre, je ne suis
pas certain.
Cas exptkiences-les deux faites avec H. Ferrari et celIe que j' ai
faite avec Mad. de G.-ne prouvent donc pas encore en toute
certitude qu' il y ait des suggestions a. distance. J' ai voulu cependant
les rapporter, ne lUt-ce que pour indiquer III. voie a. suivre, et les pre-
cautions extremes qu'il faut toujeura prendre. Si on ne les prendpas,
au moins faut~il savoir qu' on ne les a pas prises.
La mercredi soir, en Fevrier 1885, apres avoir endormi )ladame de
M., je III. reveille, et je lui dis: "Je vais faire avec vous une experience
d' n.ction a. distance. J e vais demain a. midi penser a. un tableau
quelconque, et a. III. mAme heure vous m' ecrirez pour me dire Ie tableau
auquel vous pensez alora."
Je rentre chez moi,' et, dans une assez nombreuse collection de
photographies de tableaux connus, je tire au sort Ie tableau auquel je
vais penser. La sort designe Ie Mariage de III. Vierge, par Raphael.
Ce mAme jour, a. 4 heures, je re~is de Madame de ll. une lettre
ainsi conCiue: "En fait de tableau, jt! ne vois qu'un ogre pret a. devorer
non des petits eDfant&, mais des sujets psychiques.-Midi, jeudi."
Or, precisement a. midi, on etait venu m' offrir a. l' improviste une loge
pour mener mes enfants au theAtre voir dans 111. joumee jouer Le Petit
Poucet, ou, comme on sait, Ie rOle principal est celui de l' ogre qui devore
des petits enfants. Je suis ab80lutMnt sa,. que Madame de M. n' a pu
sa.voir que j' aUais voir Le Petit Poucet.
Je mentionne Ie fait sans conclure; car Ie hasard en peut etre III.
cause.
Sur Alice, Helena., et Eugenie, j' ai fait peu~tre 5 ou 6 fois des
experiences d'action a. distance. Deux fois seulement j' "i obtenu un
resultat, plus ou moins favorable.
J' avais prevenu Helena que je viendrais Ie samedi vera 5 heures et
demie pour!' endormir. De fait, Ie samedi, de 5 heures 35 a. 5 heures
45, je fais effort pour agir a.distance sans III. prevenir. Vera 5 heures
35 (il m'a eM impossible de preciser davantage), elle dit a. sa domestique:
" Apportez III. lampe; M. Richet va venir, vous me laisserez tranquille."
Oe disant, elle s'endort, et, quand j' arrive, je III. trouve en somnam·
bulisme.
Au reveil, elle est stupefaite de ce qui s' est passe. Elle ne com·
prend pas comment je suis arrive.
Cetteexperience est evidemment defectueuse : car Helena savait que
je devais venir, et cette attente a pu amener a. elle seule Ie sommeil.
D' autre part, ayant recommence 2 ou 3 fois des tentatives analogues,
et "yant echoue, je ne puis rien induire de ce fait isoM, et assez
mal observe.
La 2 Decembre 1887, je dis a. Eugenie: "J' essaierai, un jour
Digitized by Coogle
Rel.ation de Diverse8 Experiences, &:c. 51
quelconque de cette semaine, d' agir sur vous adistance, non pas pour
vou endormir, mais pour faire que vous penserez amoi avec plus de
force." Rentre chez moi, je tire au sort l' heure et Ie jour, et Ie sort·
designe Ie 5 Decembre, 3 heures. L' hesitation portait entre Ie 4 et
Ie 5 Decembre, de 8 heures matin a10 heures soir.
De fait, j' ai ete Ie 5 Decembre a3 heures assez distrait pour oublier
(lompletement cette'experience, si bien que je ne pense pas du tout a
Eugenie. Pourtant, quand je Ia vois, Ie 6 Decembre, elle me dit, II Eh
bien! vous avez pense a moi dimanche a 3 heures." (Le dimanche
etait Ie 5 Decembre.)
Une autre observation tout-a-fait interessante se rapporte a une
j~une femme atteinte d' hysterie grave, et ayant, par Ie fait de son
hysteria, de l' hemianesthesie, avec des contractures et une paraplegie
intermittente.-Loontine D.
Je l' ai vue pour 1& premiere fois Ie 31 Decembre 1887. Elle a ete
tres facilement endormie, et, comme toutes Ies hysteriques atteintes de
grande hysterie, elle &presente al' etat plus ou moins fruste Ies trois
phases de catalepsie, leth&rgie, et somnambulisme, phases que je n' ai
jamais TUes chez Ies sujets non hysteriques.
Pendant qu' elleest en etat de somnambulisme je constate qu'on
peut lui attirer Ia main par des passes, sansqu' elle ait conscience,
soit des passes, soit des mouvements qu' elle-meme execute. Cela m' a
donne l'idee d' esllll.yer d'agir sur elle adistance.
Le 17 Janvier, apres l'avoir endormiequatre fois (du 31 Decembre
au 4 Janvier), je lui dis que j' essaierai de l' endormir de chez moi un
certain jour, a une certaine heure de Ia semaine qui va venir, du 17
au 23 Janvier.
Le Iendemain mercredi, ayant tire l' heure au sort, j' essaye d' agir
sur elle, de 1 heure 10 a1 heure 25. J' ecris sur mon cahier de notes
Ie jour et l' heure, et quand, Ie mardi 23 Janvier, je revois Leontine, je
n' ai qu' un souvenir inexact et confus de l' heure et du jour. Alors je
l'interroge et je lui demande : Ie Quand ai-je essaye de vous endormir I"
Sa sreur, qui etait presente, me dit: "Mais c' est mercredi, a 1 heure, 1
heure 10. Au moment ou nous finissions de dejeuner, Leontine me dit :
'Les bras me tombent; je vais m' endormir. C' est comme si M.
Richet voulait m' endormir.' "
En rentrant chez moi, je constate avec une vraie satisfaction que Ie
jour et I' heure etaient absolument exacts.
J' appelle l'attention sur cette belle experience: agir a distance Ie
mercredi a 1 heure 10, et constater une action Ie mercredi a 1 heure 10 :
alors que I' heure est tiree au sort, et que Ie jour a eM determine par ma
fantaisie seule; c' est une probabilite des plus faibles, d' un millieme,
tout au plus; et on experimenterait peut-etre toute sa vie sans trouver
une seule fois un eft'et analogue, si c' etait Ie hasard qui Ie determinait.
E 2
Digitized by Coogle
52 Relation de Dit'er8e8 Experiences, I:c.
II faut ajouter qu' une seconde experience faite sur Leontine m' a
donne un resultat tout.A-fait nul. Je lui dis, " Du 24 au 31 Janvier je
vais essayer d' agir sur vous pendant 10. semaine."
J' ai essaye d' agir sur eUe Ie dimanche, 29 Janvier, de 10 heures 20
a10 heures 30, l' heure etant tiree au sort.
Quand je 10. revois Ie 31 Janvier, elle me dit que Ie jour est Ie jeudi
a10 heures et demie. L' heure est exaCte (mm il s' agit peut-etre
d 'une coincidence fortuite) et Ie jour est errone.
CHAPITBE VI.
OBSERVATIONS n' ACTION 1 DISTANCE.
II faut separer lea experiences et les observations. Une experience
vaut toujours mieux qu' une observation: car on a pu dans une
certaine mesure preciser lea conditions du phenomene. On sait ce
qu' on a voulu faire, et il est tres peu rationnel de supposer Ie hasard
pour expliquer Ie succes, quand on a obtenu un succes. Au contraire,
quand il s' agit d'une observation, il faut tenir grand compte du hasard.
I.e hasard nous entoure de toutes parts dans notre vie de chaque jour.
Autant il est peu raisonnable de croire au hasard quand on experi-
mente, autant il faut admettre III. possibilite d' un concours fortuit de
circonstances quand on n' experimente pas.
Dans les Phantasms of tile Living on troU\'e une telle quantite de
faits impossibles aexpliquer autrement que par 10. teIepathie qu'il faut
admettre une action a distance. Peu importe 10. theorie, Ie fait me
semble prouve, et absolument prouve. Chaque science a ses procedes
de certitude. Lorsque il s' agit d' observations sans experimentation
possible, il faut avouer qu' on ne pourrait pas accumuler plus dA
preuves que ne l' ont fait les savants auteurs des PhantaBm8 oj t1UJ
Living. IIs ne peuvent determiner Ie fait d' une action a distance par
les memes procedes qu' un chimiste determine Ie poids atomique du
carbone. l\Iais ils ont epuise tous les procedes de certitude qu'il leur
etait donne d' accumuler pour prouver 10. teIepathie.
Je vais rapporter ici un fait de teIepathie qui m' est personnel et
qui me parait important; car les conditions ou je l' ai observe etaient, je
crois, irreprochables.
I.e mercredi, 4 Fevrier 1885, je sors de chez moi a9 heures du mll.tin
pour me rendre amon journal (Ill, Boulevard Saint-Germain). Au
coin de 10. rue du Four Saint-Germain et du Boulevard, sur Ie trottoir
de droite, moi etant sur Ie trottoir de gauche, je vois Ie Professeur
Lacassagne (de Lyon). M. Lacassagne vient aParis une ou deux fois
par an. II avait fait, il y avait deux semaines, un article dans mon
journal Re,,'Ue Scientifique, et il me l' avait envoye de Lyon.
Voyant ]I.!. Lacassagne, je suis sur Ie point de traverser Ie trottoir et.
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, J:c. 53
d' aIler Ie saluer; mais je ne m' arr~te pas et je me dis, "Puisque M.
Laca.ssa.gne est 8 Paris, je vais sans doute Ie voir aux bureaux de Ia
Revue. Pourtant c' est curieux de voir comme M. La.cassa.gne ressemble
aM. L. . ."-M. L . . . est un medecin opthalmologiste que je
connais un peu.
J' arrive aux bureaux de Is Revue, et je rec;ois differentes personnes.
A 10 heures et demie, on m' apporte la carte de M. Lacassa.gne. "Plus
de doute," me dis-je, "c' est lui que j' ai vu tout aI' heure." Ace moment
M. Laca.ssagne entre. Mais, 8 peine est il entre que je m' aperc;ois
aussi~t que ce n' etait pas lui que j' avais vu 1it>ut 8 l' heure. "Avant
toutes choses," lui dis-je, "repondez-mo~ etiez·vous a 9 heures
Boulevard Saint-Germain 7" Ma question l' etonna bea.ucoup. "Non,
certainement," me dit-il, .. j' ai passe Boulevard Saint·Germain un peu
avant 8 heures et demie; j' etais en voiture et je ne suis pas descendu
de voiture. De 18 j' ai eM au Val-de-Grace, ou je suis resM jusqu' 8 10
heures, et me voici revenant directement du Val-de-GrAce."-" Saviez-
vons que vous viendriez 8 Paris 1 L' avez vous dit 8 quelqu' un 1"-" A
personne. II y a trois jours, j' ignorais absolument que je viendrais."
Pourquoi ai-je cru voir M. La.cassa.gne 1 L' individu que j'ai vu
etait grand, blond, avec des moustaches blondes, tandis que M.
Lacassagne est de taille moyenne, avec de petites moustaches tres
noires.
J' ai eu encore trois ou quatre cO"incidences analogues: maisje ne les
rapporte pas ici, non parce qu' elles ne sont pas probantes, mais parce
que chacun sans doute a eu l' occasion de faire plus ou moins des
observations analogues, et qu' on est plus convaincu par ses propres
observations que par celles des autres.
Toutefois je mentionnerai encore celle-ci, qui a encore eu lieu entre
mon ami H. Ferrari et moi.
Le vendredi, 10 Decembre 1885, 8 7 heures du soir, somnt du
bureau de mon journal, Boulevard Saint-Germain, etant encore sur Ie
pas de la porte, je dis abrule-pourpoint, sans que run evoque ce souvenir,
" Tu sais que Ie vieux pere Durand vit encore, et que je Ie rencontre
quelquefois."-" Oui," me repond H.Ferrari, "je Ie rencontre, moi, aussi,
quelquefois." Or M. Durand est un vieux professeur de Rhetorique
du Lycee Bona.parte ou nous etions ensemble, Ferrari et moi. (En
chiffrant tant bien que ma.lle nombre de fois que je l' ai vu depuis Ie
college, c' est-&-dire, en 16 aus, de 1869 8 1886, j' arriverais au plus 820
fois, et ce chiffre est sans doute exagere. Pour H. Ferrari c' est aussi
A peu pres la meme frequence.) Nous faisons environ 150 metres. Le
temps etait tres brumeux, et Ie gaz perfi&it a peine l' obscuriM.
Chemin faisant, nous parlons du Lycee et de nos anciens professeurs.
Tout d' un coup, nous apercevons M. Durand qui venait, tres lentement,
en sens inverse de nous, et qui etait par consequent 8 plus de 200
54 Relation de Diverses ExperienceB, cf:c.
metres quand nous avions parle de lui, c' est-a.dire,absolument invisible.
C'est probablement 1a premiere fois que nous ayons parle de M. Durand
depuis que nous sommes sortis clu Lycee.
En chiffrant 1a probabilite de cet evenement, nous arrivons a une
probabiliM des plus faib1es. En effet, la probabiliM de rencontrer M
Durand est de m a peu pres, et 1a probabiliM d' en parler avec H.
Ferrari est, en supposant que depuis Ie Lycee j' ai vu mille fois.
Ferrari, et que je lui ai parle une fois de M. Durand, de Hi\m. La.
co'incidence de ces deux evenements est donc environ de ;nrulcRl1i.
c' est-il.-dire des plus minimes.
Quant a 1a probabiliM de voir M. Lacassagne et de croire que je vais.
Ie voir, elle est plus fa.ible encore; puisque une fois en 10 ans, je
suppose, j' ai cru Ie voir, c' est mlcRi de chances de croire Ie voir. Comma
je l'ai vu en tout cinq fois, je suppose, en 10 ans: Ill. probabilite de Ie
voir a tel ou tel jour donne est de ;n5cRi ou de rlu, et par consequent 1&
probabilite que ce jour co'incide avec Ie jour ou j'l!oi cru Ie voir est.
de nubmro; ce qui equivaut a la certitude morale que ce n' est pas Ie
hasard qui m'a. fait croire que j'allais Ie voir.
n est certain que Ie hasard peut donner cas co'incidences ; mais c' est.
1& une explication trop commode pour notre paresse intellectuelle. Elle
me parait surtout servir a nous cacher &nous-m~mes III. verite. Est-ce
qu' un chimiste, qui trouve dans l' air trois dix milliemes d'acide
carbonique, dit que c' est Ie ha.sard qui lui donne ce chiffre 1 Dans las
circonstances de III. vie, nous ne supposons pas Ie ha.sa.rd. Voici un
.individu dont Ie portefeuille est ordinairement vide. Un jour son porte-
feuille contient une grosse somme d' argent, et ce jour 1a il1e perd.
Dira.-t-il que c' est Ie hasard qui a fait ce concours ma1heureux de
circonstances 1 II supposera toute autre chose, qu'il a ete vole, qu' il
a change III. poche ou il mettait son portefeuille, et cetera. Un voyageur
passe III. nuit dans une fo~t et reljoit dans la tete une balle qui lui
fraca.sse Ie crine. Est-ce Ie ha.sa.rd 1 Un bra.connier ne soutiendrait
pas qu' en tirant un chevreuil, par ha.sa.rd la bal1e a ete, a 100 metres de
1ho, ca.sser la tete du voyageur. Nous n' invoquons pas Ie ha.sard, quand
1es probabilites sont des millioniemes et des cent-millioniemes; car
nous savons que Ie ha.sard ne 1es donne pas, ou les donne une fois peut-
etre dans III. vie de p1usieurs individus.
Sijejoue &I'brte avec que1qu' un,et simon adversaire six foisde
suite retourne Ie roi, je supposerai que j'ai affa.ire a un fripon ou a
un farceur, et je n'irai pas croire &ce hasard de _1_, ha.sard qui est
NO,OOO
cependant d' une probabiliM plus forte que celIe de Cf'..8 co'incidences que
je viens de mentionner.
D' ailleurs chacun a observe des co'incidences analogues, et, si ron n'en
parle pas dava.ntage, c' est qu' on a peur de faire sourire. On craint de
passer pour trop credu1e, tandis qu' en rea.lite on se cache &soi-meme III.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses Experiences, &:0. 55
verite. La verite, c' est que Ie hasa.rd n' explique riel!. Nous avons
des faits d' une concordance telle qu'il y a vraisemblablement un lien
entre eux. Tout Ie monde l' admet implicitement. Pourquoi ne pas Ie
dire tout haut 1
CHAPITRE VII.
EXPERIENCES A.VEC DES DE88INS.
Las experiences faites avec dessins sont t.out-a-falt importantes.
D'apres les auteurs des Phantasms of the Living, que je prends toujours
comme guides dans ces: questions difficiles, c'est probablement M.
Malcolm Guthrie qui a Ie premier pratique ces experiences en 1883.1
Las experiences de 1\1. Guthrie sont remarquables, et elles entrainent
"''raiment 10. conviction. En effet, l'idee que Ie hasard a pu donner de
semblables cOIncidences entre les dessins originaux et leurs representa-
tions est tellement absurde qu'il est impossible de discuter cette opinion
ridicule. Les seules hypotheses admissibles sont donc, ou bien une
fraude quelconque, consciente ou inconsciente, ou bien une transmission
de pensee (clairvoyance ou telepathie). Or I' hypothese de 10. fraude
semble devoir etre absolument ecartee, vu les precautions prises par
M. Guthrie, M. Steel, M. Lodge et M. Gurney. Le dessin original etait
fait dans une piece voisine. Aucune parole n' etait prononcee,
et la personne sensible, non hypnotisee d' ailleurs, avait un bandeau
sur 1es yeux. Meme sans bandeau sur les yeux, elle n' aurait pu voir
Ie dessin.
Ces experiences ont ete reproduites, d' une maniere &ssez imparfaite,
dans les Bulletins de 14 Societe Amiricaine des Recherches Psychiques.
(Voir Ie compte rendu par M. Pickering dans Science, Juillet 1885.)
Dans Ie journal allemand Sphinx, il y a aussi d'assez curieuses'
experiences de cet ordre par M. Anton Schmoll (Sphinx, Fevrier 1887,
p. 120), et de M. A. Notzing (Sphinx, FtSvrier 1888), mais elles sont
loin, comme precision dans la methode, des belles experiences de M.
Guthrie, qui meritent toute l' attention des savants.
J' ai essaye nombre de fois des experiences analogues, et je vais en
donner Ie compte rendu detaille. C' est surtout avec Alice, puis aussi,
mais moins souvent, avec Helena et avec Eugenie que je les ai
essa.yees; puis avec quelques autres sujets, dans des conditions que je
mentionnerai. Je noterai aussi 10. tetalite des insucces, atin qu' on
puisse comparer les succes que je donne 8. tous les insucces obtenus.
Ces experiences se divisent en deux classes; celles ou je connaissais
Ie dessin; celles OU je ne connaissais pas Ie dessin. II est clair que
c' est 18. une condition tres differente et qui change 10. face du probleme.
1 Pllani<ufIU of the Living, tome I., p.36, et Proceeding. of ehe S.P.B., tome
I., p. 264. et tome II., p. 24.
56 .Relation de DiverseB Experiences, &:c.
En efi'et, jusque ici, dans les experiences de M. Guthrie, de M.
Pickering, de M. Gurney, de M. Schmoll, de M. Notzing, l' hypothese
d' une transmission de pensee a ete adoptee de preference a toute autre.
Or, dans nombre de cas, j' ai obtenu d'a.ssez exa.ctes reproductions du
dessin enferme dans une enveloppe, a.lors que les personnes presentes ne
connaissaient pas Ie dessin et ne pouvaient Ie connaitre. C' est done
autre chose que 10. transmission de pensee, thought transference, ou
suggestion mentale. C' est ce que les magnetiseurs d' autrefois appel-
laient 180 lucidite ou Ill. seconde vue ou 180 clairvoyance.
D' ailleurs, fidele a mon systeme de repousser toute theorie. je ne
fais la aucune thoorie; je constate seulement qu' il est impossible
d' expliquer certains faits, dont on lira tout a l' heure Ie recit, par la
transmission de pensee, puisque les personnes presentes ignoraient
absolument Ie contenu de l' enveloppe.
J' ajoute que c' est aussi une condition excellente pour une experi-
mentation rigoureuse. II est certain qu' on ne peut aider Ie sujet
a faire telle ou telle reponse,puisque on ignore ce qui est dans l'enveloppe
opa'lue.
Etant d' aOOrd convaincu pluMt de 180 transmission mentale que de
10. lucidite, j' avais cru n6cessaire que quelqu' un connaissant Ie dessin
mis sous enveloppe fftt la pour m' assister. II etait d' ailleurs bien
entendu que 180 personne ayant fait Ie dessin ne disait pas un mot et ne
faisait' pas un geste. Moi, qui ne connais pas Ie dessin, je puis parler et
interroger a ma guise, et rectifier comme je I' entends les propos incoM-
rents de Ill. somnambule. J' ai pariaitement Ie droit d' agir ainsi; car
aucune indication ne m' est donnee sur la nature du dessin enferme.
Voici donc comment l' experience etait faite. X. prepare dans une
enveloppe opaque, ou rendue opaque par l'interposition de plusieurs
feuilles de papier, un dessin qu' il fait chez lui ou dans une autre piece.
Ce dessin enferme m' est donne, sans aucune indication. Alors Alice
est endormie. X. et moi nous restons pres d' elle ; mais X. ne dit
absolument rien, ne lui touche pas Ill. main, s' abstient de tout geste et
de toute appreciation. Quant a moi, j' interroge Alice et je fais moi·
mllme Ie dessin qu' elle m' indique: c' est quelquefois, mais plus rarement,
elle-mllme qui Ie dessinait sur Ie papier. En tout cas, c' est toujours
sans que X., qui est present, manifeste un sentiment quelconque,
approbation ou desapprobation.
C' est ainsi que l' experience emit realisee dans certains cas; mais,
dans d' autres cas,le dessin etait fait par moi, mis dans une enveloppe com-
pletement opaque, et laisse avec une vingtaine d' enveloppes semblables,
pendant un ou deux ou mllme cinq et six mois sur ma table. J'oubliais
I) bsolument Ie dessin fait, et je donnais ainsi un dessin dont j' ignorais
Ie contenu. Le dessin dans ce cas n' etn.it pas fait par moi, mais par
Alice, et je ne lui disa.is rien qui put Ill. mettre sur Ill. voie. L' eusse.je
Relation de DiveTse8 Experiences, &:c. 57
fait, cela n' aurait pas rendu l' experience fautive; car j'ignorais la
nature du dessin en question, choisi parmi un grand nombre de dessins
semblables, tous enfermes, et vraisemblablement oublies.
Enfin, dans les meilleures conditions experimentales, Ie dessin
n' etait pas .fa.it par moi, et la pers?nne ayant fait Ie dessin n' etait pas
presente. Alors Ie dessin fait par Alice est entierement du 8. la lucidite.
8' il est suflisamment aM.logue au dessin mis dans l' enveloppe, c' est
<Iu'il s' agit bien lil, non de transmission mentale, mais de lucidite.
Le nombre des experiences faites ainsi a diverses epoques et sur
diverses personnes, est, d' apres mes notes, de 192. Mais il est probable
que j' ai omis un certain nombre de tentatives infructueuses, de sorte
que je crois devoir porter a 200, en chiffres ronds, Ie nombre total
des experiences de dessins. J' ai eu dans Ie nOQlbre hes.ucoup d'insucces,
(je ne 1es mentionnerai pas) et des demi-succes, ou ml3me des succes en
proportion assez notable.
Premiere Sene d' ExpenenceB-
Experiences aU le dessin enferme dans 'Une enveloppe opaque emit'
conn'U des per80nneBpr~ente8.
Experience I., J'Uin 1886.-Mon ami et collegue, Ie Docteur P.
Rondeau, fait un dessin qu'il met dans une enveloppe opaque. II me
donne ce dessin, et je prie Alice de Ie dessiner sans ouvrir l' enveloppe.
Dans un premier essai je montre Ie dessin aAlice sans que M. Rondeau
soit present. Elle dit: "Un carre. Un tableau tres grand ou il y a
beaucoup de choses. Ce qu'il y a surtout, c' est un cadre. A droite
- i
1- r
L .~
..
o
FIG. 1.
comme une carte goographique. Quelque chose qui monte. Une allee
au milieu. De petites allees a gauche. A droite quelque chose de
pointu comme un clocher. Une grande maison avec un clocher pointu.
L' allee du milieu commence au bas de 18. maison, et remonte au milieu."
On verra par Ie dessin (Figure 1) que nous reproduisons ici, que la
igitized by Goog
58 Relation de DiverseB Experiences, J;c.
description n' est pas du tout en rapport avec 10. reaIite du dessin. II
semble toutefois qu' il y ait au debut quelque ressemblance; car les.
mots: un carre, un cadre, sont assez exacts. Mais, ainsi que je l' ai
souvent constate, 8. partir d' un certain moment, il y a de\iation
complete. Quand elle a dit: "A droite, comme une carte geographique,"
elle a tout·8.-fait perdu l' analogie avec Ie dessin reel. Si elle s' etait
arrettie apres avoir dit: "Un carre, un cadre," cela eut pu passer pour
exact.
Quelques jours apres, en presence de M. Rondeau, je donne a. Alice
Ie meme dessin. Bien entendu, je recommande 8. M. Rondeau de ne
faire aucun geste, de ne prononcer aucune parole qui exprime l' approba-
tion ou III. desapprobation. Je ne suis pas sftr qu'il ait observe toutra-
fait rigoureusement cette recommandation; mais, s'il a laisse parfois.
voir ce qu' il pensait, c' est assez peu de chose.
FlO. 2.
Voici (Figure 2), reproduit parl' heliogravure, comme toas les dessins
suivants, Ie dessin fait par elle, avec les mots que j' y ai ajoutes, SUl"
sa recommandation. 11 est clair que, moi qui ignorais absolument Ie
contenu de l' enveloppe, je pouvais ecrire ce que je voulais. C'est.
rendre ainsi 1'experience non pas plus facile, ruais plus difficile, puisque
Ie dessin fait par moi d' apres las indications d' Alice a de grandes
chances d' etre moins exact que celui qu' elle ferait si elle dessinait.
elle-meme.
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiVer8e8 Experie'IlCe8, &c. 59
V oici lea paroles textuelles d' Alice: "Je ne peux voir qu' une .ligne.
Ce n' est pas un tableau. C' est ecrit. Je ne vois pas de dessin, mais
des lignes ecrites. Une ligne droite plus grande, et en bas des !ignes
plus courtes. Ce n'est pas comme si on ecrivait une lettre. C'est
comme un cadre de fenetre, comme un escalier, avec un espace en haut,
une ligne qui forme de petits dessins. Ce que je vois surtout, c' est un
cadran de porte, avec au-dessus comme un ecusson. c' est peut-etre III.
~e d' une maison. L' ecusson est rond en bas, interrompu sur It's
cOtes."
II s' agit Ia, pensons-nous, d' une experience interessante; car la
ressemblance entre Ie dessin mis dans I' enveloppe cachetee et Ie dessin
fait par Alice, est assez frappante.
FlO. 3.
FlO. 4.
Exp~ II., 9 Juillet 1886. Figures 3, 4; 5, 6.-Le dessin,
mis dans des enveloppes opaques, a ete fait par mon ami et
collegue, Ie docteur Rericourt. La boule a ete faite par une serie de
Digitized by Coogle
60 ~lation de Diverses Experiences, J:c.
petits traits, et elle a ete surmontee d' une serie de petites lignes faites
par convergence en partant de 180 boule. (Figure 3.)
M. Raricourt est present. D' abord il ne dit rien; puis peu a peu
il interroge, mm sans donner d' indication, autant que cela lui est
possible. Ce mode d' operer est assez defectueux; cependant M.
Rericourt et moi, nous sommes a.ssez habitues aces experiences pour ne
pas donner beaucoup d'indications par notre maniere d'interroger.
D' ailleurs, pour ma part, j'ignore completement ce qu'il y a dans les
enveloppes.
Alice dit d' abord que ce n' est pas un carre, qu' il y a quelque chose
en haut, et puis quelque chose en bas, proba.blement une f~e, comme
une f~e de chalet. On lui dit que ce n' est pas eela.
FlO. 5. FlO. 6.
Alors elle fait avec la main un geste indiquant que c' est un rond.
Elle dit: "C' est une boule." Puis elle trace un dessin comme celui de
la. Figure 4; une boule avec de petits traits en haut, rapproches les
uns des autres. .A ce moment M. Rericourt lui demande si ces traits
sont tres rapproches. Elle dit que oui, et fait Ie dessin suivant (Figure
[)). " En bas il Ya. comme un pied." Alorsje dessine d~ a.pres ses indica-
tions Ie dessin de la Figure 6, qui represente un caliee surmonte
d' une hostie entouree de rayons.
igitized by Goog
.Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, tl:c. 61
On remarquera, je pense. d' 8obord une certaine 8ona.logie entre 180
Figure 5 et la. Figure 3, si l' on renverse la. Figure 5. Mais on sera
aussi etonne de voir que la figure faite par moi d' 80pres lea paroles
d' Alice est une figure religieuse, de m~me que la figure originale est
aussi une figure religieuse, la. croix surmontant Ie monde.
E~ Ill., 15 Juillst 1886.-Afin d' eviter les plis de l' enve-
loppe ou lea traits iroprimes dans la. pAte du papier, M. Hericourt fait
d' un trait continu un dessin a la. plume qu' il met entre plusieurs
couches de papier epais, tout-a-fait opaque. J' ignore tout-&-fait ce
qu'il a dessine. II ne dit aucune parole, ne fait aucun geste, et c' est
moi seul qui interroge Alice.
FlO. 7.
Voici textuellement sea paroles: ..II Ya plusieurs couleurs. C' est un
rond plilS en deux. II y a un portrait dans Ie rondo C' est un
medaillon, un cadre, avec un ovale dans Ie cadre, puis une ~te dans
l'ovale, une ~te d' homme. II n' a pas Ie cou habille comme d' habitude.
Ce ne sont pas des croix ou des medailles, rows des soutaches
trsnsversales sur Ie devant. C' est montant et celli. ferme. II ya six ou
sept soutaches transversales. II n'a pasla ~te nue, mais un kepi. Ce kepi
a trois galons circulaires j mais il y a plus de ga.1ons perpendiculaires.
Aux manches il y a quatre galons ou plutOt trois, qui sont au bas de 180
manche, circulaires. Sur Ie devant, 10 boutons. C' est la figure de
quelqu' un qui est maigre; peu~tre assis. Mais je ne vois pas bien ce
qui n' est pas la ~te et Ie buste. Je Ie reconnais j mais je ne peux pas
dire qui c' est."
Digitized by Coogle
62 .Relation de Diver8es Experiences, J:c.
Cette description est 180 description tres exa.cte de 1110 photographie re-
presentant M. Hericourt en costume de medecin major (Figure 8).
En apparence, cette description ne concorde pas a.vec Ie dessin cache ;
mitis en rea.lite, il y a un fait tres remarquable.
FlO. 8.
M. Hericourt, cherchant quel objet il pourrait bien dessiner, objet qui,
tout en restant tres simple, sortit un peu des ronds, carres, lignes droites
et triangles, a pris comme type Ie cadre de sa photographie. Cette
photographie est chez lui dans son salon, et Ie dessin est celui d' un de
ces petits cadres tres communs dans lesquels on met une photographie.
(Figure 7.)
Rien, ni dans notre conversation anterieure, ni dans nos paroJes
ne pouvait faire soup~onner qu'il s' a.gissait d' une photographie. On
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiverseB Expemnces, &:c. 63
voit cependant que des Ie debut Alice a pense a un portrait, a un
mMaillon, a un cadre. C' est done 11 en somme une &ssez remarquable
-experience.
La. seconde partie de l' experience n' est pas moins interessante.
Pourquoi, parmi tous les portraits photographiques qu' elle pouvait
souMonner---etant donne qu' elle avait devine qu'il s' agissait d' une
photographie--a-t-elle precisement parle de la photographie de M.
Herieourt 1 Elle n' est jamais allk chez lui; elle ne savait pas pro-
bablement que M. Hericourt, il y a trois ana, etait mMecin major dans
l' armee. Elle ne l' a pas d' ailleurs reconnu, et' elle n' aurait pas pousse
l' astuce jusqu' a savoir qu'il s' agissait de lui, et ne pas vouloir Ie
nommer, pour sembler sincere. II est vrai que M. Hericourt m' avait
donne jadis sa photographie--il est, dans cette photographie, debout et
non assis. J' avais sans doute laisse quelque temps cette photographie
sur ma table, au lieu de la ranger immMiatement dans un album. Or
Alice a tres bien pu la voir, quoiqu' eHe n' entre que' rarement et tres
rarement dans ma bibliotheque. La description est tres exacte,
beaucoup plus exacte que je n' e(isse pu la donner moi-meme. II y a sept
soutaches 1 l' uniforme, et trois galons au kepi et a la manche. II est
vraisemblable qu' Alice ignore 1& valeur des galons pour indiquer les
grades.
Meme 1 supposer qu' elle ait VII cette photographie-ce qui est,
lIinon vraisemblable, au moins tres possible-il n' en est pas moins vrai
qu' elle a devine qu' il s' agissa.it d' abord d'un cadre, puis d' une photo-
graphie de M. Rericourt. Rien ne pouvait lui indiquer ce double fait.
Signalons aussi ce fait remarquable, que M. Hericourt n' a.vo.it
dessine que Ie cadre, et que, d'autre part, il ne pensait pas a son portrait.
Certes, il Ypensait qua.nd il a sur Ie dessin retrace les contours du
cadre: mais il n' y pensait pas quand j'interrogeais Alice. II y a done
1& un phenomene, non pas de lucidite seulement, mais encore de
transmission mentale, puisque l' image de 10. photographie atait, non sur
Ie dessin, mais dans la pensk inconsciente de M. Hericourt.
J' ajouterai que cette experience a ete fa.ite avec plus de rigueur que
l'autre, et que pas une parole n' a ete prononcee par M. Raricourt. Tout
au plus a-t-il pu pa.r-ci par-la laisser khapper quelques signes d' approba-
tion involontaires, que je reprimais aussi~t.
Explrience I V.-L' experience suivante a ete faite en J uillet 1886,
huit jours apres l' Experience III. M. Rericourt fait un dessin dans 1&
chambre ou se trouve Alice; mais Alice est deja. endormie. Elle ales
yeux fermes, et Ie dessin est fait 1 l' autre extremite de ma bibliotheque:
de plus je m'interpose entre Alice et M. Haricourt, de sorte qu' illui est
impossible de voir Ie dessin fait par M. Rericourt. II n' y a a.ucun contact
entre M. Hericourtetelle. Je recommande meme d' aviter nonseulement
les paroles, comme cela avait ete fait dans les experiences precedentes,
Digitized by Coogle
64 Relation de Diverses Experiences, &c.
mais encore les gestes. Pour cela, il met la main sur ses yeux ~dant tout
Ie temps de l' experience, et il se tient 8. une distance de trois metres.
Voici textuellement les paroles d' Alice:
FIG. 9.
"0' est un rond avec d' autres raies plus petites. Ces raies sont
croisees. n ya une grande raie, dans Ie rond, puis dans ce rond
d' autres ronds plus petits, et au milieu quelque chose que je ne puis
definir. Des raies qui traversent Ie rondo Au dessus quelque chose qui
forme une croix. Dans Ie milieu quelque chose comme une rosace, comma
une rose avec des feuilles. Le rond est enferme dans un cadre. Au
dessus il y a peutretre comme un triangle. Les ronds sont croisee. II
y a plusieurs triangles au dessus du rondo Je n' en vois que trois."
\I
FIG. 10.
Si nous ne tenons pas compte des descriptions confuses donnees par
Alice avant ces mots: "Le rand e8t enjerme dans un cadre," nous avons
en quelques )ignes une description relath'ement tres exaete des dessins
contenus dans l' enveloppe. En eft"et l' objet se compose de deux
enveloppes blanches superposees, sur chacune desquelles est un timbre
poste franc;ais, non oblitere, de cinq centimes. Oes timbres represen-
tent chacun un rond enferme dans un cadre, et les deux ronds etaient
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiveTse8 E~nces, tl:c. 65
superposes par suite de Ia superposition des deux enveloppes au mAme
point. Quant au dessin, i1 representait trois lignes droites (Figure 9).
Mais M. Hericourt avait plie Ie papier en deux, de aorte que les trois
lignes droites faisaient l' etret de trois triangles, comme los trois
triangles marques _la Figure 10. Le dessin des trois triangles a ete
fait par Alice ala Figure II.
FIG, ll.
Cette experience est d' autant plus interessante que d' aOOrd M.
H~ricourt s' est absolument abstenu de toute appreciation, et, de plus,
qu' il ignorait I' etret de la superposition des trois lignes droites.
FIG. 12.
Quoique M. Hericourt ne sut pas l' etret du papier plie en deux, i1
croit sa rappeler l' avoir regarde ala lampe pour verifier aque) moment
I'
Digitized by Coogle
•
66 Relation de Diver8e8 ExperienceB, &le.
il ~tait opaque, do sorte que l'image, quoique inconsciente, des trois
triangles s' ~tait sans doute grav~ dans sons esprit.
FIG. 13.
E~e Y., ~ol2t 1886. - Faite par Eu~nie. Dans cette
ex~rience, Ie dessin que j'avais fait n' ~tait connu que de moi, et j' etais
FIG. 14.
seul avec Eu~nie. Elle fait BUccessivement, sans que je elise rien, les
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverse8 Expbiences, J:c. 67
trois dessins 13, 14 et 15. Le de'ssin original trace par moi est la.
Figure 12.
On remarquera d' abord que Ie dessin 8, Ie premier qu' elle ait fait,
indique bien Ie mouvement ~neral de la. figure originale renversee:
Ie second dessi'n est un echec apeu pres complet, quoique, dans les lignes
~--------------
\
FIG. 15.
generales, ce soit encore Ie m~me mouvement que dans Ie dessin original.
Le dernier dessin (Figure 15) est tres curieux ; car 1& fumee de la. pipe que
j' avais essaye de tracer est etonnament bien reproduite. n me paralt
difficile d' admettre que c' est un eft'et du hasard. Pour cette experience,
Ie dessin avait eM fait chez moi. Personne ne Ie connaissait. Je
m' abstenais de toute parole-j' en suis absolument sftr-et l' enveloppe
etait opaque. Eugenie ne disait presque rien, at, sur mon conseil, elle
Be contentait de dessiner sans parler.
E~nce VI., ~cnU 1886.-M. Hericourt met dansdesenveloppes
une photographie. Il s' agit de decrire cette photographie. L' experi-
ence est fa,ite par Alice. La photograpbie est celIe de M. Hericourt,
assis et jouant du violoncelle. Nulle parole n' est prononcee par M.
Hericourt. Alice dit qu' elle voit quelqu'un qui est debout, "qui & les
deux mains occupee& et qui tient a180 main quelque chose, Iegerement,
comme cela." (et elle fait avec 180 main droite un mouvement comme
quelqu' un qui touche un archet). Pourtant je ne devine pas qu' il
1/ agit d' un archet, et, quand il s' agit de dire ce qu' il tient, d' apres les
paroles d' Alice, je concIus que c' est quelq~'un debout, tenant legere-
F2
Digitized by GoogIe
6M .Relation de Diver8e8 Expbiencu, Icc.
ment de 10. main droite 10. garcie d' une epee. (Figure 16.) Amon
sens, je crois qu' il y a eu une certaine confusion avec 10. photographie
precedente.
FIG. 16.
Expbience VII., Juin 1886.-Experience faite par Eugenie. M.
Rondeau met dans une enveloppe cacheMe un dessin que je ne connais
pas. Sur l' enveloppe est l'indication de la. date a la.quelle a ete fait
Ie dessin (Figure 17) j cette enveloppe cacheMe est mise entre deux
feuilles epaisses de carton. M. Rondeau n' est pas 18., et aucune des
personnes presentes ne connait Ie dessin. Eugenie dit qu' elle voit des
photographies, puis, comme je lui dis que ce ne doit pas litre une photo.
graphie, elle ajoute: "Une substance comme du vernis, brilla.nte"-
c' est probablement Ie cachet a 10. cire rouge-"un grand cadre ovale
avec des anglesj une barre transversale," et, comme je lui dis qu' il yo. un
cachet, elle lit les lettres, P. R., qui sont en efl'et les lettres du cachet dE'
Pierre Rondeau.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiveT8e8 Experiences, J:c. 69
Elle dit aussi qu' il y a quelque chose d' ecrit, et elle indique Ia forme
generale de ce qui est ecrit, comme on Ie voit ala Figure 18.
FIG. 17.
Le dessin concorde lLSBez bien avec Ia description donnee; car c' est
un cercle avec une barre transversale qui ne traverse pas tout Ie cercle.
n n ya aucun angle.
-
FIG. 18.
Quant a. I'indication des Iettres du cachet, il est possible qu' elles
aient eM vues pendant que je mettais l' enveloppe de M. Rondeau entre
lea deux couches de papier epais. II en est de mllme pour les lettres
ecriteB (Figure 11), qui etaient sur l' enveloppe exterieure. En eifet,
comme mon intention etait de faire deviner non pas ('e qui etait sur
l' enveloppe exterieure, mais dans I'interieur de l' enveloppe, je n' avais
.pas pris specialement de soins pour cacher l' enveloppe exterieure.
Pourtant il est innaisemblable, quoique possible, qu' Eugenie ait pU,
Digitized by Coogle
70 Relation de Diverses Exp!riences, &c.
pendant que je maniais I' enveloppe, lire Ies Iettres du cachet, tres
peu Hsibles, et alors que nous etions dans une chambre peu eclairee.
Mais il suffit que ce soit It. I' extreme rigueur possible, pour que
l' experience ne soit pas probante.
Pour Ie dessin mis dans l' enveloppe, Ill. description est inexacte.
Expbience VIlI.-lf.. Ribot, directeur de Ill. Re'/J'U6 Philosophique,
apporte dans une enveloppe opaque une photographie que je ne connais
pas et pour Iaquelle il est entendu qu'i1 ne donnera aucun signe
d' approbation ou d'improbation. J e sais seulement, et je Ie dis It. Alice,
qui fait l' experience, qu' il s' agit de Ill. photographie d' une ville.
Voici Ill. description qu' elle donne:
" II Ya des arbres It. gauche. Ce qu' on distingue Ie plus, c' est un
pavilIon pointu avec un toit pointu comme une Beche. Ce n'est pas
- -
FIG. 19.
seulement une rue: c' est I' ensemble d' une ville. Ce que l' on voit
Ie plus, c' est une grande maison. On a \'"oulu prendre cette maison
pluMt que Ie reste. Elle domine Ie reste. II y a d' autres maisons It.
droite. Devant III. maison est une place. La. maison n' est pas ca.rree"-
c' est-&-dire, comme elle l'indique, en faisant un geste, qu'on ne voit pas
Ie maison de face, mais suivant un angle. "II Ya en haut " (sans qu' elle
puisse dire s'i1 s' agit de Ill. grande Dl!l.ison carree ou d' une autre), "un
rond qui n' est pas une fenetre. Celli. monte au milieu, et c' est plus bas
It. droite et It. gauche. II faut monter pour aller It. Ill. maison et passer a.
gauche en faisant un tour."
Cette experience a eM faite dans des conditions de precision qui me
paraissent irreprochables: mais Ie resultat n' est pas decisif; car il y a
Digi,izedbyGoogle __ _j
.Relation de DiVer8e8 Expbiences, J:c. 71
quelques erreurs d&ll8 180 description donnee, et surtout une
certaine banaliM qui interdit presque une conclusion formelle. On notera
p,ourtant cette phrase curieuse et etonnamment exa.cte : " Ce que I' on
voit Ie plus, c' est une grande ma.ison qui domine Ie reste et qu' on a.
youIu prendre pluWt que tout Ie reate."
Noua donnons ici a.u trait III. photogra.phie en question. C' est une
vue genera.le de III. ville de Tolede. (Figure 19.)
II est bon de noter qu' Alice est tres peu au courant des vues de ville
et des photographies de paysage. Elle ne conna.issa.it pas M. Ribot,
et ne pouvait soup<;onner quoi que ce soit sur l' aspect genera.! de III.
photographie, qu' on lui remettait enfermee dans une enveloppe.
Expbie~ IX., 26 No-vembre 1886.-Experience fa.ite pa.r Alic..'e
en presence de M. Gurney, de M. A. Myers, de M. F. Myers, et de M.
Ferrari. Aprea deux experiences qui ont 6choue, et quelques autres essa.is
aussi infructueux, M. F. Myers met un dessin dans une enveloppe. II
fait Ie dessin dans III. cha.mbre meme ou nons nous trouvonB, mais 8.
• •
• •
FIG. 20.
assez grande distance. M. A. Myers et moi, qui ne connaissons pas
Ie dessin, nous interrogeons Alice, qui dit: "Deux ovales. C' est un
chifl're entrela.ce dans un a.utre." 0' est exa.ctement.Ie dessin fait par
M. Myers, et la description est si exa.cte que M. Ferrari a. crn que ces
paroles avaient eM prononcees a.pres qu' on a.va.it regarde Ie dessin
origina.!. Or etles ont eM dites par Alice, alors que Ie dessin etait
encore d&ll8l' enveloppe.
Ma.lneureusement, j' ai Ie jour merne ega.re Ie dessin original de M .
Myers, de aorta que je ne puis faire juger de l' exactitude de la. descrip-
tion. Mais je puis gara.ntir qu' il est difficile de donner de ce dessin de
M. Myers en une phrase une meilleure description que celle-ci: "DIJ'UX
chijfru entrelaces."
72 .Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, J:c.
Ea:plrWMe X., 3 Decembre 1886.-Experience faite par Alice en
pr~nce de H. Ferrari et de 1\1. Hericourt. M. Hericourt a mis dans
une enveloppe absolument opaque un dessin fait chez lui et pour lequel
il ne donne aucune indication. M. Ferrari et moi noUB ignorons Ie
contenu du dessin, et l' experienCe est faite d' une maniere impro-
chable. I.e dessin original est 180 Figure 20.
Void les paroles textuelles d' Alice :
"C'est une etoile. Un rond avec des pointes. Une croix avec
une barre ; mais cette barre n' est pas 180 seule. Elle ne finit pas 1& et
vient rejoindre l'autre: il y a une ligne Iii., et une autre ici, et une autre
du m6me cate, et toutes les qUII.tre pareilles. II y a un rond tout
autour; des fers de lance au bout."
FIG. 21.
D' apres cette description, qui est apeu pres incomprehensible quand
elle n' est pas mimee en m6me temps qu' elle est dite, nous faisons
chacun un dessin, M. Ferrari et moi, pour indiquer comment noUS
comprenons 1& description d' Alice.
FIG. 22-
La Figure 21 represente mon dessin, et 180 Figure 22 Ie dessin de
Y. Ferrari. II est impossible de ne pas etre frappe de 180 tres grande
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, Icc. 73
ressembl&nce de nos deux reproductions avec l' original. On peut
m~me dire que nos deux reproductions di1ferent plus l' une de l' autre
qu' e11es ne di1ferent de l' original. C' est 1& &ll8urement une des
meilleures experiences de cette premiere serie.
FIG. 23.
b ---
-
' . -
~---
FIG. 24.
E~e XI., 3 Mai 1887.-Experience faite par Alice, Je suis
seul avec elle. Le dessin que j' ai fait il Ya longtemps et que j' ai tout-
a..fait oublie, est reate mela.nge ad' autrea dessins, faits simultanement,
et je Ie prends au hasard.
Alice voit d'aOOrd des !ignes transversales superposees, qu' elle
figure ainsi. (Figure 25.)
/
/
FIG. 211.
Alors je regarde Ie dessin et je lui dis qu' il n' y a aucune reaseru-
blance. Elle fait alors Ie dessin suivant (Figure 24), qui ressemble
bien plus a l' original (Figure 23). Mais je ne suis pas sftr, dans
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiveT8eB Experiences, ~c.
cette seconde partie de l' experience, de ne pas l' avoir infiuencee d' une
maruere quelconque, ce qui ate presque toute valeur acette experience.
Expbience XII., 6 Juin 1887.-Faite par Helena. Dans 1&
clla.mbre voisine je fais un dessin au crayon, et je Ie garde a 1& main
sans Ie lui donner. Le dewn que j' ai fait (Figure 26) represente un
triangle support6 par une sorte do pied. En Ie faisant je me dis a
Rloi-m~me qu' il ressemble beaucoup aux arbres qui sont dans 1es boites
de joujoux des enfants.
FIG. 26.
Voici alors les paroles d' Helena: "J'ai envie de f&.ire des feuilles,
des feuillages longs, termines par une pointe. Ce sont des feuilles
allongees ; il Ya une marque dans Ie milieu qui tranche comme un filet
d' argent, et qui est sur un cote de la feuille. Un cOte de la feuille
n' est pas de la m~me forme que l' autre, et du cate qui n' est pas
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Dive1'8e8 E:rpbUnces, Jac. 75
tout-a-£ait pareil, il ya comme de petites veines." Je lui dis alors de
faire Ie dessin, et elle fait Ie dessin de la Figure 27. J e n' ai donne
aucune indicat.ion, consclemment, ni par mes paroles ni par mea
gestes.
Toutes les experiences dont je viens d' exposer avec quelque detailles
resultats ont un vice commun. Elles sont faites en presence de
quelqu' un qui connait Ie resultat aobtenir. Or, pour tous ceux qui
ont pu observer des somnambules, leur singuliere perspicaciM ne
fait pas l' objet d' Ull doute. Elles ont l' esprit toujours en eveil, et ne
chercbent qu' a reussir leurs experiences. Aussi toute parole, tout
Digitized by Coogle
76 Relation de Diverses Experiences, &le.
geste, toute attitude m~me des personnes presentes deviennent-ils
aussit6t de precieuses indications. Elles partent de Iii. pour corriger,
rectifier, diminuer ou augmenter, selon les circonstances, les premieres
paroles qu' elles ont prononcees.
Cela dit, on comprendra qu' i1 est impossible de rester pendant une
demi-heure dans l' attente d' un resultat, sans reveler, malgre soi, par
quelque signe, que Ie sujet est dans 180 bonne ou III. mauvaise voie.1
Assurement je suis convaincu que Ie succes des experiences rap-
portees plus haut n'est pas du &des indications inconscientes de 180 part
des experimentateurs. On verra bien par ce qui suit que cette interpreta-
tion serait erronee, mais, si convaincu que je sois de 180 bonne qualite
de ces experiences, ce n' est pas 1& la certitude; et rna conviction
pourrait n' etre pas partagee par mes lecteurs. Je suis done d' avis que
toutes ces experiences, quelque BOin que j' aie mis iI. les bien faire, BOnt
mauvaises et ne peuvent etre que rnauvaises. Pour 180 meme raison, je
serais volontiers dispose & 180 meme severite pour les experiences des
auteurs divers qui procedaient de 180 meme maniere, c' est-8.-dire qui
connaissaient Ie resultat &obtenir.
Ce n' est pas que je veuille rayer d' un trait de plume tout ce que je
viens d' etablir laborieusement et avec tant de details; je veux dire
seul~ment que de pareils faits BOnt peu puissants & convaincre; car il
y a dans l' experimentation meme un ,ice fondamental, qui eleve un
doute sur tous les resultats. II est clair que ce serait admettre ou bien
une extraordinaire perspicacite de 180 part du sujet ou bien de ma part
un etrange aveuglement. Mais, je Ie repete, cela ne suffit pas pour
convaincre, et i1 faut plus qu' une presomption pour donner 1&
demonstration d' un fait qui ne concorde avec rien de ce que nous a
appris la science positive.
Au contraire, les faits que je vais rapporter sont, au point de vue
de 180 methode, tout-a..fait irreprochables, je crois. Les resultats
paraitront bien moins brillants que ceux qu' ont obtenu M. Guthrie et
M. Gurney: mais ils confirment avec force l' opinion de ces savants
experimentateurs: car il n' y a pas moyen de supposer, comme dans 180
premiere partie de mes essais, quelque complicite inconsciente entre Ie
sujet et celui qui a fait Ie dessin original.
De Ia, en absolue necessite, cette alternative: ou bien Ie .hasard:
ou bien une sorte de seconde vue, de lucidite, d' hyperesthesie
sensorielle, qui differe profondement de tout ce que nous savons, soit
des sens, BOit de l'intelligence de l' homme.
On jugera laquelle de ces deux hypotheses est la plus vraisemblable.
I Cette critique ne porte pall du tout SUi· les experiences de M. Guthrie. de M.
Schmoll et de M. Notzing, car ils obtenaient trcs rapidement des reponses lI. leurs
des.ins, tandis que dans mes experiencea la reponse etsittres longue lI. venir.
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Di.vel'8e8 Experiences, ~c. 77
C' est 1& I' avantage des experiences faites de cette maniere. Le lecteur,
deba.rrasse de tout souci sur l' interpretation du manuel operatoire, a
devant lea yeux Ie protocole des experiences et peut Be mire son
opinion.
Pour donner une idee de la variete des dessins qui etaient &
deviuer, voici une enumeration, encore bien incomplete, de ceux qui
ont ete enfermes dans une enveloppe, pour ~tre devines. Une petite
maison, un paysage, un croissant de lune, deux poissons, un mil, une croix
avec un calvaire, un tonneau, un nez, une urne, un livre ouvert, une
bouteille, un encrier, un verre, une fourchette, un couteau, une pipe, un,e
fleur, une gazelle, un lapin, un oiseau, un cercle avec une tangente et SOIl
diametre, un compas, une frange de broderie, des lettres, un revolver, une
raquette, un entonnoir, un eteignoir, une clef, un de & jouer, un faiaan,
un chameau, une cOte, une soupiere, une eglise, une cigogne, une
montra, une pendule, un dossier de chaise, un violon, un poisson, un
coquetier, une bougie, un moulin, une charrette, une lettre, une
couronne, un treillage, un cube, un chapeau d' homme, une fleur, en-
forme d' etoile, un chAlet avec un petit paysage, un dessin sinueux avec
deux piques au bout, deux triangles superposes, une haie, deuxtriangles
superposes et entoures chacun d' un cercle, un losaIfge perce de trous, etc.,
etc., diverses formes circulaires, carrees, losangiques, triangulaires,
etc. Quoique ces dessins n' aient pas ete faits par une Beule personne,
mais par trois ou quatre de mes amis, etrangers l' un &l' autre, et qui ne
Be communiquaient pas leurs idoos & cet egard, on voit que malgre cela
la diversite est assez grande, et elle aurait ete aussi grande que je
l' aurais voulu, si, au lieu de prendre 180 dessins, j' en avais pris 500 : car
on s'imagine mal queUe variete infinie on peut trouver dans 180 con·
fection de dessins divers.
D~ Sbie ~E:x:periencu.-
E~ oU Ie durin enferme dtms ,,11.6 envelnppe opa,que itait
inconnu du perBOnr&e8 pri8entes.1
E:x:pmence I., 6 Avril 1887.-Experience faite par Eugenie chez
moi en presence de M. Ochorovitz et de M. P. .
Le dessin avait ete fait tres anciennement par moi et mis dans une
IJe ne donne pa.a ici toutes met' expenencea, maia seulement celles qui me par-
a.i..ent avoir plus ou moina reU88i. Etant donne que j' en ai fait 180 environ et qu' il
y en a eu euviron 30 qui ont plus ou moins n!UBBi, eela fait une proportion moyenne de
1 8U~ lUI' 6 experiences. Cela indique apeu pn.. la moyeune des jourB de lucidittl,
80it pour Alice, 80it pour Eugtlnie. Ce n'est qu' un jour IUl'six qu' elles ont des eclairs
de lucidite, et encore, ce jour 1& m~me, cette lucidite est des plus variables et des plua
incertainea.
Quoique il yait, par ci par Ia, daDB lea de8Bina dont je ne parle point, d'alllleZ
iDtereaaantea COincidences, il me paraltqu' on peut les regarderendefinitive comme les
echecB. l\iI6me pour lea deuina que je donne, il y en a un':) dizaine qu'on peut
regarder comme ayant echoue.
Digitized by Coogle
78 Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, &:c.
enveloppe opaque, consistant, outre I'enveloppe, en unefeuilledepapier
FIG. 28.
blanc triple et pliee de sorta qu' il y avait six feuilles de papier d' un
cOte et six feuilles de l' autre.
FIG. 29.
J'avais totalement oublie I" contenu de cette enveloppe. Eugenie dit
alors, et ce sont 88S paroles textuelles: "C' est 10. forme d'un camT. Je
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiverBe8 E~p6riences, &:e. 79
.vois comme un carre avec une eapece de raie tres longue, un ovale qui
forme comme un OO!ur avec une grande barre. ,C' est la fonne un peu
d' un <euf. 0' est un OO!ur plutat que tout autre chose." En parlant
ainsi, elle fait lea trois dessins (Figures 29, 30, 31).
On trouvera peu~tre une ressemblance assez curieuse entre Ia.
Figure 30 et Ie dessin original. (Figure 28.)
FIG. 30.
Alors je regarde Ie dessin original, sans prendre, malheureusement,
grand 80uci de Ie cacher completement aEugenie. Elle dit tout de suite,
t
)t
FIG. 31.
"C'est une figure grimaqante." A-t-elle vu Ie papier que nous avons
alors deploye 1 J e ne Ie crois pas; mais je n' oserais l' affirmer. La
Digitized by Coogle
80 .Relation de DiverseB Expbie1l.WJ, .te.
chambre etait dans une demi-obscurite. Eugenie avait, comme toujours
lorsque elle est en etat de somnambulisDle, les yeux convulses en Mut;
ses paupieres etaient closes, et loin de lui montrer Ie papier et Ie dessin,
nous l'avons regarde aloN que nous etions a.ssez loin d' elle. Mais
cependant rien ne nous affirme en toute certitude qu' elle n' a rien vu.
Meme en admettant comme non valable cette derniere partie de
l' experience, il n' en reste pas moins 1& premiere partie. Or, que l' on
compare Ie grassier dessin qu' elle a fait (Figure 30) avec les autres
dessins donnas anterieurement, et on verra que ce dessin ressemble plus
au dessin original que tout ce que nous avions deja. vu. Je n' ose pas
dire que Ie basard n' y est pour rien; mais ce que je puis affirmer, c' est
• •
•
• •
FIG. 32.
que l' experimentation a. ete irreprochable. Par consequent on peut
juger de 1110 valeur du rasultat, et conclure da.ns un sens ou dans l' autre.
E:r:perunce II., Mai 1887.-Faite par Alice. I.e dessin a ete fait
par moi et melange a. d'autres dessins faits depuis longtemps. Quand
je Ie donne a. deviner, j' en ignore absolument Ie contenu. L 'original
est represente par 1& Figure 32.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses Expbiencea, &:c. Rl
Lea deux essais d' Alice sont donnas par las Figures 33 et; 34.
Voici sea paroles.
7
FIG. 33. FIG. 34.
" C' est un objet qu' on suspend-nn carre-pas un carre-c' est
plus long. II y en a plusieurs-un, deux de chaque c6te et un au
milieu. II yen a deux de chaque ~~t puis 1& au milieu-et puis
encore en bas. Mais ce n' est pas rond."
II se trouve que Ie dessin fait par elle est beaucoup moins exact que
ses paroles. Si I' on applique aux points marques sur Ie dessin sas
expressions: "II y en a un et deux," on verra que la ressemblance est
grande entre Ie dessin qu' elle indique et Ie dessin reel. Malheureuse-
ment je n' ai pas compris, et il m' a ete impossible, soit d' apres sa descrip-
tion orale, soit par son propre dessin, de refaire Ie dessin original.
L' experience n' en reste pas moins assez curieuse, encore qu' elle soit
bien peu decisive.
E:xpener..ce III., 18 Mai 1887.-Ce jour 1& je donne deux dessins
qui m' ont ete remis par M. Ferrari. L' un de ces dessins represente
une Heche avec des barbelures tres longues allant jusqu' au bout de
Ia Heche. Alice dit que c' est raye comme du papier de musique.
L' autre dessin, fait par M. Ferrari, et dont j' ignore pareillement
Ie contenu, consiste en deux boules, une grande et une petite,
G
82 lUlation de Divef'sU Ewpbience8, J:c.
Is plus petite etant surmontee d' une toute petite boule avec une
minuscule croix par dessus. Elle dit: "A coup st1r c' est rond-
e' est une boule ronde supportee par un pied."
Ce qui rend cette experience interessante, c' est Ie contraste absolu
entre les deUx dessins originaux, contraste que rien ne pouvait fsire
soup4ionner, puisque M. Ferrari n' etait pas la, et qu'il ne m' avait rien
Jaisse deviner de sea intentions. De fait, dans l' un il y a une boule, et
elle dit pour celui 1& .1 une boule" j dans l' autre il y a des raies, et elle
dit "ce sont des raies."
FIG. 35.
Explrieme IV., 20 Mai 1887.-Parmi les dessins tres nombreux-
une vingtaine emiron---que m' a donnes M. Ferrari, j' en prends un au
hasard. (Figure 35.) 11 est evident que j'ignore auasi bien Ie contenu
de celui la que des autres, et je Ie donne a Alice. Elle se met a. rire-ce
qui lui arrive rarement--et dit: "Celui-la est tres dr~Je. C' est bien
rondo Dans ce rond, au milieu, il y a un point, tout autour de ce rond
des petites lignes," et ella fait Ie dessin suivant. (Figure 36.)
Alors je regarde Ie dessin original, en lui disant que sa reponse est
bonne, sauf quelques details. Elle ne peut d' ailleurs rien ajouter i. sa
description premiere.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Di'Vt!/I"8e8 Experiences, ttc. 83
II est certain que l' hypothbse est entre Ie hasard et la lucidite.
Toute autre hypothbse est impossible. Je laisse a toute personne
impartiale Ie BOin de d~cider queUe peut 6tre la part du hasard pour
FIG. 36.
donner de pareilles analogies. Pour ma part, il me semble qu'il ya
une assez petite probabilite pour que, deux dessins ~tant faits au hasard,
ils Be trouvent 6tre aussi ressemblants que ceux de la Figure 35 et de
la Figure 36.
FIG. 37.
A mOD sens, cette Exp~rience IV peut compter parmi les
meilleures; elle est, comme experimentation, irr~prochable.
G 2
Digitized by Coogle
84 Relation de Dive1'8e8 Ewpbiencu, ~c.
EzpbiHnce V., 24 Jiai 1887.-Le dessin, que j'ignore, a eM fait
par M. FelTllori. (Figure 37.) Alice fait alora Ie dessin de10. Figure 38,
en disa.nt: II C' est un carre, grand, avec pluaieura carrea l' un dans
l' autre, un autre, et un autre, et un autre plus petit dedans."
FIG. 38.
Sa. description est rela.tivement exa.cte, et elle serait m~me
excellente Hi Ie mot de carre etait rempI8.ce par Ie mot de triangle. II
est m~me aremarquer que sea paroles 8' appliquent au dessin original
mieux que son propre dessin.
FIG. 39.
Alora je regarde-en prenant bien soin de ne pas Ie lui montrer-
Ie dessin original, et je lui dis: II C' est presque cela." Elle fait alol'S
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiVer8e8 Experiences, J:c. 85
Ie dessin de 180 Figure 39, en disa.nt: "Un carre o.vee deux lignes qui
se croisent comme un X, et do.ns chacun des triangles il y a. trois raies...
Cette seconde partie de l' experience est, comme resuItat, preferable a
180 premiere partie; mo.is il est permis d' elever quelques doutes sur sa.
valeur BoU point de vue de I' experimentation; car ce n' est qu' o.pres que
je I' &i vu qu' Alice a. pu en mire 180 description, et je ne suis pas certain
de ne pas lui o.voir donne malgre moi quelque indication.
Explrience VI., 5 J",i" 1887.-Experience mite par Alice do.ns les
m~mes conditions que les precedentes. DeBBin pris parmi les dessins de
}1. Ferrari, faits il Y a. deux moil, et dont j'ignore o.bsolument Ie
contentL L' enveloppe est, comme toujours, tout-lt.-mit opaque.
FIG. 40.
Elle dit textuellement : "II est petit, ce dewn. n est dr6le. Ce
BOnt deux boules raunies par une petite ligne." Alors je demo.nde:
"Qu' y a.-t-il dans ces houles'" 1 Elle repond: " Dans l'une il n' y a
rien, dans l' o.utre des ro.ies comme une croix. C' est quelque chose
qu' on pourrait BOulever comme une poignoo," et elle fait avec 180 main
Ie geste de quelqu' un qui BOulevero.it une haltere. Puis elle fait Ie
dessin suivant, qui est reproduit dans III. Figure 41, Ie dessin original
atant 180 Figure 40.
1 Remarquezcombien j'ai eu tort de demander quelque Ch088. II 'f&ut mieux la
lais8er parler toute Hule.
Digitized by Coogle
86 .Relation de DiVe'l'868 Experiences, tl:o.
On remarquera, ie pense, cette etonnante similitude. Elle est
d' a.utant plus fra.ppante que, pour cette reproduction-par 10. gravure,
}t·IG. 41.
comme pour toutea lea a.utrea, j'ai conserve exactement lea dimensions
tant du deaain original que du deaain fait par Alice.
Cette experience peut, a.vec l' Experience IV., compter parmi les
meilleurea.
E:cp1rienc8 VII., 15 Juin 1887.-Faite par Alice. Un deaain,
que j'ignore abaolument, m' eat donne par mon collegue, M. Hanriot.
I.e deaain eat fait en un trait trea leger, et Ie papier est en triple dans
une enveloppe fermee. (Figure 42.)
FIG. 42.
Voici lea paroles d' Alice: "Une ligne droite terminee en haut pal'
trois piques. 0' est comme un porte-plume, qui fait comme une ftOOhe et
qui en bas se termine comma une pique. II n' y a pas de pied en bas.
Les trois piques du haut sont reunies par un rondo Au deaaoua i1 y a
comme un nreud entrela.ce. Ce sont des ronds entrelacea, comme de
petits annea.ux Ie long de la. tige-comme une ancre-en haut un rond
qui forme eventail."
Digitized by Coogle
87
Je fais alors Ie dessin suivant (Figure 43), qui au premier abord
ne ressemble guere au dessin original (Figure 42); mm je dois
faire remarquer qu' en faisant ce dessin je peuse d' une part au
FIG. 44.
FIG. 43.
caducOO de 1& Faculte de Medecme-une boule surmontee d' une tige
autour de laquelle s' enroule un serpent, Ie serpent d' Esculape;-d' autre
part It. 1& marque de libraire des editions d' Ant. Aug. Renouard, mon
arriere grand-pare, dont je donne ici Ie specimen. (Figure 44.) .
Ainsi, parmi la multitude des objets possibles, ce qui est venu a
ma pe~, d' apres1& description d' Alice, c' est dans les deux cas un
objetentoure d' un serpent. Le dessin original etait un serpent.
Digitized by Coogle
88 &lation de DiVe1'Se8 Experiences, &c.
Dans Ie detail des paroles d' Alice je noterai encore ceci, c' est que
pour elle la base etait sans pied, en piques ou en pointes, tandis
que Ia partie superieure etait tenninee en rondo C' est 1& une
ressemblance saisissa.nte avec Ie dessin original, ou la. tete du serpent
est ronde, et Ia queue fourchue, sa.ns pied. Cette experience peut
assurement compter parmi les meilleures.
Experience Vll., 28 Juillet 1887.-Faite par Alice. Le lIessin
original est un coquetier. Elle voit" Un rond, puis un autre rond,
puis un troisieme rond-c' est piutOt ovale que rond---en bas il y a un
nOlud."
FIG. 46.
Elle fait alors un dessin qui ne ressemble pas bea.ucoup au dessin
original, parce qu' il y a trois ovales, alors qu' un seul ovale est dans Ie
dessin original. En efi"et, presque toujours Alice fait une sorte de
multiplication d'images, et voit plus qu' il n' y a. l\Iais, si l' on elimine
cette amplification, on trouve dans 86S paroles une definition qui peut
s' appliquer & un coquetier portant un Oluf: " Un rond, plutOt ova.le
que rond, avec un nOlud au dassous."
Experience VIll., 29 Juillee 1887.-Le dessin est un de ceux
que m' a donnes H. Ferrari. Le dessin original est la Figure 45.
Alice dit: "C' est la fonne d' un COlur allonge, pointu, avec deux barres
dans les deux ronds du haut. C' est Ia forme d' un ballon avec sa
nacelle." (Figure 46.)
Quoique la divergence entre I' original et Ie dessin fait par Alice soit
considerable,on doit reconnaitre une certaineanalogie dans Ie mouvement
general de l' un et de I' autre, surtout pour Ies deux barres du baut
igitized by Goog
Relaticm de Diversea &cperiences, ct:c. 89
repondant aux deux BOureils epais, qui BOnt une des C&rac~ristiques de
cette figure grim~te.
}<'IG. 46.
~xpirience IX., 19 J'Uillee 1887.-Faite par Helena. Ce BOnt
toujours les ~~mes conditions que dans les experiences precedentes. Le
..( 14~
FIG. 47.
dessin m' a ete donne par H. Ferrari, et j' ignore absolument ce
qu'il contient. n est dans une enveloppe opaque. Le dessin original
se compose de trois boules juxtaposees. (Figure 47.) Le dessin fait
Digitized by Coogle
90
par Helena est forme de trois segments juxtaposes de forme irr6guliere.
Elle dit que ce IOnt trois feuilles, mais laisse marcher IOn crayon sans
presque rien dire. (Figure 48.)
FIG. 48.
EIl}~ X., 28 Juillet 1887.-Faite par Helena. Dessin donn~
par M. Ferrari et que j'ignore totalement. (Figure 49.) Helena dit :
FIG. 49.
•• Une sorte de feuillage avec des filandres, une grande chose au milieu
Digitized by Coogle
91
comme deux ailes de papillon avec Ie corps du papillon entre lea deux."
Elle fait Ie desain de la Figure 50.
Le dessin represente une palette. .Assure~ent la ressemblance est
tres lointaine, mm Ie double corps de la palette est bien indique.
Explriencs XI., GAoUt 1887.-ExperienC6 faite par Eugenie. I.e
desain a ete fait par M. Hericourt. Je l' ignore absolument, et je suis
seu! a, eo Eugenie.
Elle cJit-et C6 sont ses seules paroles-" Une pipe-une raie avec
un rond coupe au bout."
Digitized by Coogle
92 .Relat·wn de Diverses Experiences, ~c.
Puis elle fait Ie dewn suiv80nt (Figure 52), qui ressemble beau
FlO. 51. FIG. 52.
coup, comme on "oit, a 180 Figure 51, qui eat Ie dessin original.
Cette experience, tout-a-fait irreprochable,comme les preceden~ au
point de vue de Ill. methode experimentale, peut, avec lea Experiences
IV., VI., et VII., compter parmi lea meilleures et lea plus decisives.
Expbience XII., 19 Novembre 1887.-Experience faite par Alice.
FIG. 53.
Le dessin, que j' ignore compliltement, m' a ete donne par ~1. Hellier. I1
a. ettS mis dans une enveloppe opaque. (Figure 53.)
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de. Diver868 Experiences, J:c. 93
Alice dit: "0' est cOI.me un creur. En haut, il y a des traits
comme une gerbe. Oela ressemble aune poire." Elle me fait faire Ie
dessin suivant (Figure 54); elle-mllme fait Ie dessin de la Fi~re M.1
En comparant lea Figures 54 et 55 avec Ie dessin original, on y
retrouvera quelque analogie, mais l' experience eat loin d' litre aussi
bonne que la precedente. \
FIG. M.
t,\ ,
!\
\FIG. 55.
Experience XIII., 2 Decem.bre 1887.-Experience faite par Eugenie.
Le dessin, enferme dans une enveloppe opaque et que je ne connaia pas,
m'a e~ donne par M. Bellier. (Figures 56 et 57.)
Elle voit d' aOOrd un arrosoir. "Non. 0' est un rond avec une tige,
comme une fleur avec une tige," et elle fait Ie dessin suivant.
FIG. 56.
L' original represente un chat. Mais il 'eat assez curieux de
remarquer que la queue de ce chat ressemblo beaucoup ala tige. Le
1 n faut remarquer que l'irnIgularite marqu4!e sur lee contours lateraux du creur
eat due a oe qlle Ie crayon tr&9&it Ie deuin Bur uneenveloppe, lOt que lee sailliee de
l'enveloppe avUflnt fait d4!vier Ie crayon. Mais la reproduction du d8llllin par Is
gravure a dUo pour litre abaolument fidllle, tenir compte de oette intlgalite.
Digitized by Coogle
94 Relation de Diverses Experiences, ~c.
dessin etait fait dans III. direction que nous donnons ici, c' est-&-dire,
dans un sens tel qu'il y avait superposition des deux dessins. On
fera aussi attention aux trois traits de III. tige accessoire, qui ont 1&
m~me dispositicn que les trois poils de III. moustache du chat.
FIG. 57.
L' experience n' est certes pas decisive: car Ie hasard a bien pujouer
un rOle dans cette similitude, mais on ne peut cependant III. compter
comme un insucces.
Expirimce XIV., 2 Decembre 1887.-Experience faite par Eugenie.
FIG. 58.
Le dessin m' a eM donne par M. Bellier, et j' en ignore totalement Ie
contenu. (Figure 58.)
95
Eugenie dit, ~'Un croissant de Iune. Je ne vois qu'un croissant de
Iune." Elle fait alON Ie dessin suivant. (Figure 59.) La super-
position etait celle que I' on aurait, en supposant lea deux figures
juxtaposees dans Ie Rena que nous donnons ici.
FIG. 59.
On doit considerer cette experience comme un succes; car
la coque du navire, dessinee par M. Bellier, a precisement 10. forme d' un
croissant, et lea dimensions BOnt identiques.
Je dois ajouter que, deux jours apres, fs.isant avec Alice une expe-
rience sur un dessin que m' avait donne M. Bellier, il y a eu de la
part d' Alice erreur complete; mais Ie dessin de Bellier etait
precisement un croissant, et toutra-fait identique au croissant que m' a
dessine Bugenie dans l' Experience XIV.
Ezplrieme XV., 25 Novemhre 1887.-Experience faite par Claire L.
Cette experience est a.peu pres 10. seule experience de deBBin quej'aie faite
avec cette personne. La dessin m' a ete donne par M. Bellier. II est
en une enveloppe opaque. II represente un double cercle, au dessus
duquel Be trouve une feullle, comme la feuille d' une pomme.
Claire me dit, "Je vois une feuiUe, avec un rond au-dessous,
comme une carte geographique. Ce n' eat pas une figure. II n' y a
rien au milieu."
En somme 10. description est tres exacte, et on ne dira.it guere
mieux apres avoir vu Ie dessin. Malheureusement elle n' a pas pu me
faire de dessin.
Ezperienc6 XVI., 13 Decemiwe 1887.-Faite par Alice. II s' agit
d' un dessin que j' ignore et que M. Bellier m' a remis, enferme dans
un papier triple, et dans une enveloppe opaque. (Figure 60.)
Alice dit: "Un rond, comme une couronne. II y a dea feuiUea
tout autour. Ce n' eat pas la forme dea feuilles de laurier." (C' eat en
Digitized byCoogle
96 .Relation de Diver8e8 Expbiences, J:c.
effet rid&! qui s' etait present&! amoi, quand elle a dit une couronne
avec des feuilles.) "Ce sont des feuilles qui ne sont pas pointues:
Flo. 60.
elles font tout Ie tour. 11 y a des points par ci, par la. Rien au
milieu."
AlON je fais Ie dessin suivant, Figure 61, dessin qu'elle ne
semble pas bien comprendre, et qui d' ailleuN ne ressemble pas du tout
FlO. 61.
au dessin original. Mais que l' on compare les paroles d' Alice et
Ie dessin original, et on verra quelle etonnante precisiop, (avec.
cependant, omission de l' arbre et du tronc de l'arbre) dana la descrip-
tion orale qu' elle a donnee, bien suptSrieure ason dessin.
Experience XVII.-Faite par Alice Ie mAme jour. Aprea l' avoir
endormie amidi 45, je 1& laisse etendue sur son lit, et je \le reviens 1&
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Diverse8 Erpbiences, J:c. 97
voir qu' a 5 heures 45, avec M. Hericourt. Elle est restee absolument
dans 1& m~me position. Pour Ie dire en passant, c' est une excenente
preuve de non-simulation; car il est bien impossible de rester cinq
heures de suite ,sans deplacer ses couvertures, quand on ne dort pas
v~ritablement.
Le dessin que je donne alors est 8.ussi inconnu de moi et de M.
Hericourt que les autres dessins. Il m' 8. eM donne par M. Bellier,
et it est m.is dans une enveloppe opaque. (Figure 62.)
FIG. 62.
Alice dit : " 0' est par carres; une croix comme les carres d' une
feu~tre, comme un cadre, avec une raie qui traverse. Oela rt'.ssemble a
des rideaux d' une fenetre." (Figure 63.)
FIG. 63.
Quoique Ie dessin fait par moi d' apres ses indications ne ressemble
qu' assez peu au dessin original, on doit remarquer cet etrange debut de
l' experience. Ene dit, "0' est par calTes," tandis que dans l' expe-
rience precedente elle avait dit, "0' est un rond."
H
Digitized by Google
9g Relation de Dive1'868 Experiences, &:c.
t·'
1I~ XYIIJ..XX., 16 DlcemJweI887;.L-Faites par Eugenie.
J e vais chez Eugenie avec M. Rericourt, etje lui apporte quatre desains
identiquement disposes dans des enveloppes opaques. C' est M.
Bellier qui a fait ces dessins: M. Rericourt et moi, noUB ignorons
tout-a-fait Ie contenu des quatre eJlveloppes.
Eugenie dit d' abord: "Je vois une croix, comme une croix de
Malte, avec des boules rondes au bout de chaque branche de 1& croix."
- FIG. 64.
Mais cette description, elle ne l' applique pas a tel ou tel desain
special. C' est aun des quatre dessins que nous apportons: alors en
causant avec nous elle prend un dessin (Figure 64), et dit, "Je vois un
rond, comme une couronne, traversee par un bAton. Ce rond est plutGt
un ovale, avec 1& forme d' un reuf." Elle fait Ie dessin 65.
FIG. 65.
Le dessin represente une table. On remarquera que la forme de
cette table est ovalaire, avec un bout un peu plus allonge que l' autre.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation ~ DiveTse8 Expiriences, Jcc. 99
.
J' appelle auui l' attention aur Ie mot bAton, qui s' applique a.ssez
hien a des pieda de table.
Pour Ie second deuin, elle dit : "Je voia un poignard, une epee
formant croix," et alors elle a'interrompt pour dire : "Ne marquez pas
ce que je vais dire. J' ai pense aune bouteille, et eela a ~." Alors
je deuine une epee avec une croix pour faire la garde (Figure 66 bis).
Le deuin original (Figure 66) represente une ancre; mais Ie aommet
de I' ancre est une croix, de aorte que I' analogie est a.ssez grande entre
lea deux deuins.
FIG. 66. FIG. 66 BIS.
Pour Ie troisieme deuin, Eugenie dit : "0' eat un oisea.u. Je voia
une tAte avec un long cou, comme une cigogne, au un cygne, ou une oie.
Un daB, des pattes....:..c' est une bete, et un oiseau." Or Ie deuin repre-
sente une bouteill8.
Oette bouteille, que je n' ai pas cru devoir faire figurer ici, a une
tAte, et un cou allonge. On sait qu' en fran~is on S8 sert pour Ie
sommet de la bouteille des mots tete et cou. Ma.ia ce n' est pas cela
qui est interessa.nt.
En eft'et, quelques minutes auparavant, Eugenie, ayant ee dessin sur
sea genoux, et tenant entre ses mains Ie deuxieme dessin, avant de
dire: .. 0' est une epee," a dit, "Je vois une bouteille." Elle a dit cela
avec timidite, craignant une erreur, et l' image de la bouteille a., paratt-il,
tout-de-auite disparu.
La quatrieme dessin n' etait pas en realite un deuin. 0' etait une
carte de jeu, etje l'avais, par suite d' une erreur involontaire, confondue
avec lesenveloppes ou etaient Ip.s deSBina. Eugenie dit que ce deuin est la
H 2
Digitized by Coogle
100 Relation de DiVer8e8 Experiences, ~c.
croix de Malte, qu' elle avait dit voir au debut de I' experience j c' etait
un valet de COlur.
En resume, ces deux experiences, a~"ec Alice, du 16 Decembre, et
avec Eugenie, du 17 Decembre, sont tout-&-fait prooontes. D'abord, au
point de vue experimental, il n' y a, je crois pouvoir Ie dire sans pre-
somption, aucun defaut; Ie dessin etait inconnu de moi et des
assistants, et l' enveloppe etait absolument opaque.
n y a d' abord deux dessins pour Alice, un arbre et un drapeau.
Pour l' arbre, elle dit des feuilles; pour Ie drapeau elle dit des
carres. Avec Eugenie, il y a trois dessins, une table, une
ancre en forme de croix, et une bouteille. Pour 180 table eUe
dit un ovale avec un bAton; pour l' ancre elle dit une e~ en
croix et une bouteille; pour la bouteille elle dit un oiseau avec une
Mte et un cou.
Experunce8 XXI.-XXIII., 24 Jan'lMr 1888.-Faites par Alice.
Pour Ia premiere enveloppe, elle fait un dessin qui represente deux
fleurets croises ensemble, comme il y en a a180 porte des professeurs
d' Escrime. (Eugenie, dans une experience faite Ie 18 Decembre,
m'avait auui deBBine quelque chose de tout-il.-fait analogue aces fleurets
croises.)
Apres avoir fait Ie deBBin Alice ajoute, IC 11 y a un fil aprea, comme
une paire de lunettes avec un cordon."
FIG. 67.
On verra par Ie deuin original, que je donne ici, (Figure 67) la
similitude du dessin original avec ce que m' a dit Alice. Ce ne sont
pas des fleurets, mais une epee; d' ailleurs Alice n' a pas dit fleuret.
C' est moi qui avais pense ades fleurets par suite du deBBin fait par elle.
n y a en outre la dragonne du sabre, auquel souvent pend une torsade,
qui represente aBBeZ bien Ie fil dont parlait Alice.
Pour 180 seconde enveloppe, elle dit textuellement-et je reproduis
toutes ses paroles-IC Ce n'est pas une coupe. C'est un carre, avec deux
angles ici et 1&." Alors, je fais Ie dessin suivant. (Figure 69.) Alice,
continuant, dit : "n y a un rond au milieu, et, d&nll ce rond, un rond
plus petit." J' ecris Ie mot chapeau et Ie mot bonnet phrygien qui me
viennent al' esprit, mots eveilles par sa description. Elle ajoute : "C'eat
comme une cible." Je fais Ie deBBin 70.
Le deuin original represente un tambour (Figure 68). et, si l' on
admet que Ie cercle superieur du tambour ait ete par erreur porte au
Digitized by GoogIe
Relation de Diverses E~, ,te. 101
milieu et de champ, au lieu d' etre au dessus de III. caisse, on trouvera
....
----
Flo. 68.
entre Ie dessin original et sa reproduction par Alice une certaine
a.nalogie.
FIG. 69.
II faut ajouter qu' avant de faire ce dessin je lui en avais donne un
autre, qu' elle m'avait declare ne pas ,"oir, ainsi qu' elle dit presque
toujours. De fait, ce dessin etait reate sur sea genoux. Je l' ouvre, et
je constate qu' il s' agissait d' un chapeau, de forme, il est vrai, assez
ditrerente de la forme figuree par moi (Figure 71); mais c' etait un
chapeau. (Figure 102.)
FlO. 70.
n me parait que, dans l' ensemble, cette triple experience du 24
Janvier est tout-a.fait remarquable. II y a trois dessins representant:
l' un un sabre, l' autre un chapeau, Ie troisieme un tambour. Pour Ie
Digitized by Coogle
102 Relation de Dive1'ses Expb-iences, &c.
sabre, elle dit deux ronds avec un fil comme des lunettes: mais Ie
dessin qu' elle fait eveille aussit6t en moi l' idee de fleurets. Elle ne dit
rien pour Ie deuxieme dessin; mais, pour Ie troisieme, elle fait un
FlO. 71.
dessin qui eveille en moi l' idee de chapeau, assez nettement pour que
j' ecrive sur mes notes: "Chapeau, bonnet phrygien ",. et Ie dessin fait
par elle est comme surajoute au deuxieme, c' est-a-dire, que Ie rond du
tambour est superpose au dessin carre du tambour.
FIG. 72.
Experience XXIV., 28 Janvier 1888.-Faite par Alice. EUe
dessine un croissant avec un rond au milieu.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiverBe8 Experiences, J:c. 103
Ce dessin ressemble un peu a. l' original; mais cette ressemblance
n' est guere au~essus de ce que peut donner une coincidence fortuite.
L' original est un encrier avec deux plumes fichees aux bords de cet
encrier. De fait, l' encrier, de forme ronde, avec l'encre qu'il contient,
est a.ssez analogue aun croissant dont Ie centre est tres obscur. Malgre
eels., je compte cette experience comme un achee.
ExpbienceXXV., 28 Jantw 1888.-Faite par Alice. Cetteexperi-
ence me para.lt particulierementinteressante par suite de la complication
croissante des dessins faits par Alice, dessins qui graduellement, sans
qu'il y ait d' erreur dans les premiers, ont fini par ressembler d'une
maniere inattendue comme contours generaux au dessin original.
Elle commence par dire: "Une coupe avec un jet d' ea.u au
milieu," et elle fait Ie dessin swvant (Figure 73). Je pense a une
FIG. 73.
lyre, a. un coquetier. "Au centre," dit elle, " il ya comme un cornet pour
mettre des fleurs. C' eat droit comme un bAton."
Alors successivement elle fait lea dessins suivants que je reproduis
ici (Figures 74 et 75).
FIG. 74.
&sa
FIG. 75.
L' original represente une ecrevisse (Figure 72). A premiere vue on
104 .Relation de Dive/'8es Experiences, &e,
ne d~uvre aucune analogie entre l' original et lea dessina donn~ par
Alice, maia, pour peu qu' on dessine lea contours d' une krevisae, on
retrouvera 1& eig~ faiaant Ie corps m~me de l' animal; lea deux borcis
~v... de 1& coupe qui indiquent lea grandea pinces, avec leur crochet
terminal, et enfin lea antennea recourbl6l, droites comme un biton, eten
forme de jet d' eau. Cette derniere description eat bien curieuse: car
p~ment lea antennea ainai dispos~s ressemblent beaucoup adeux
jets d'eau. Avec lea ex~rienceaIV., VI., VII. etXV., cette explrienee
peut compter parmi lea meilleures.
ll:r:plrWnce XXVI., 2 FlT1rier 1888.-Faite par Alice. Son premier
mot eat de dire: "0'eat une oohelle-c'eat nne oohelle qui eat adaptAle a
quelque chose." Alora je lui demande: " Est-ce une maison f" Elle mt'
dit non, et pourtant elle fait Ie dessin suivant (Figure 77), on il y II
FIG. 76.
comme une oohelle appliqu~ a une petite mBison. Si I' on compare Ie
dessin fait par Alice avec Ie dessin original (Figure 76), on ne
trouvera peu~tre aucune ressemblance. N~nmoina, j' ai tenu a en
Digitized by Coogle
&lation de Di/lJeT8e8 Eapbiences, Jcc. 105
donner la gravure, pour montrer que, mAme en cas d' echec, il y a une
analogie ~n~rale qui eat assez curieuse; surtout Ie mot du d~but­
dans ce cas Ie mot echelle-qui, je crois, est 80uvent Ie plus exact, et
qui, pour cette ex.~rience, s' adaptant a l' ~ventail du dessin original,
est bien significatif.
FIG. 77.
E~ XXVII., 29 DlumJwe 1887.-Faite par Eugenie. Le
dessin represente une casserolle. Elle voit une roue,· un grand rond
-
---
-
FIG. 78.
avec de petites barres dans Ie milieu, comme un crochet qui Ie suspend,
Digitized by Coogle
106 &lation de Divers68 EqJ6rience8, Icc.
comme une decoration suspendue a un fit Le fait de signaler un
crochet ne laisse pas que d' Atre assez int.eressant.
E~ XXVIII., 29 JM&vW l888.-Faite par Leontine.
Elle voit une croix, et elle fait Ie dessin d' UD9 croix (Figure 79), dont
Ia ressembJance est tres grande avec l' original, qui eat aussi une croix
queIque peu compliquoo. (Figure 78.)
J e De pense cependant pas qu' il soit permis de £&ire rentrer cette
analogie dans Ia classe des excellentes exp~riences; car d' une part
Leontine a des tendances a re~ter toujours ce qu' elle a dit ala stlance
FIG. 79.
precedente, et, d' autre part, elle avait eu adeviner 15 jours auparavant
une croix avec un calvaire. C' est 1& ce qui me fait croire au hasard
pour cette experience de Leontine.
E;r:pbimc6 XXX., 17 Fe",.w,. 188S.-Faite par Eugenia. Le
dessin represente une fleur de lis, com~e on en figure parfois sur
les rosaces des edifices gothiques. Eugenie dit: "O'eat un c:arre, et
dedans il y a un carre inscrit, comme une rosace, comme la rose des
~"ents."
Encore que cette description ne s'applique pas tres bien aune tleur
de lis, il est int.eressant de retrouver 1& Ie mot de rosace.
E~ XXXI.-Faite Ie m~me iour par Eugenia. L'autre
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, t!:c. 107
deasin represent.e un canon, sans aiFiit, avec les deux supports lateraux
qui font reposer Ie canon sur l'a.ffi1t (tourillons). Obacun de ces
supports, l'un en bas, I'autre en haut, a 1& forme d'un petit carre.
Eugenie dit: "Une raie et un petit carre en baut." Or Ie petit carre
qu'elle decrit et dessine est exactement identique au petit carre du haut
du canon.
Ce qu'il y a d'interessant dans ~ette double experience, c'est precise-
ment cette distinction qui lui fait dire: une rosace pour 1& fteur de lis,
et une raie avec un petit carre en haut pour Ie canon.
E~ XXXII., 26 Flurier 1888:-Faite par Alice. La dessin
original represente une libellule. Alice dit: "Deux ovales tres
rapproches, comme deux lunettes." Je ne donne pas ici Ie dessin de 1&
libellule, mais &88Urement tous les lecteurs Be rendront bien compte que
ce qui parait caracteristique chez cet animal, ce sont sea deux enormes
yeux ova1aires, a facette&, qui font Baillie tres pres I'un de l'autre de
chaque cOte de 1& Ute.
Aprea avoir regarcie, je dis aAlice: "Ce n'est pas tout-&-fait exact.
C'eat un animal. Quel animal1" Elle dit alors: "O'eat allonge. Oe
qui est en bas, ce n'est pas des pattes. En bas il Y a de petites raies.
nn'y a pas de cou allonge."
On remarquera, je pense, que cette description, tres vague d' ailleurs,
eat assez exacte.
B~ XXXIII., 2 Mar. 1888.-Faite par Eugenie. Elle dit:
"C' eat un demi cercle, avec une petite boule au bout." Or Ie dessin
represente une montra, et 1110 petite boule du haqt, figuree par Eugenie,
repond tres bien a l' anneau avec remontoir, dessine au haut de 1&
mORtre.
EzpIrimce XXXIV.-Faite par Eugenie Ie m~mejour. Oette ex-
~rieRce est un vrai succes, et aBSurement une des meilleures experiences
quej' aie eues, quoique Eugenie n' ait pas fait de dessm. La deasin
original represente en silhouette une gazelle. Eugenie dit:" Une Ute
decbeval," puis, Be reprenant, "Une petite Wte de mouton, ou de
banU." n est evident qu' une petite Ute de mouton, et une silhouette
de gazelle ont une tres proche parente. La hasard ne donne de
pareilles analogies; qu' apres de Jongues series de tirages.
Ezpirimc6 XXXV.-Faite par Eugenie Ie m~me jour. Sur
I'enveloppe qu' elle tient a 1110 main, elle fait des raies et des barres,
IOngitudinales et transversalea, mais ne dit rien. Rentre chez moi
j'examine Ie dessin, qui Be trouve ~tre un damier, par consequent tres
analogue aun dessin qui represente un damier.
E~ XXXY'J., 13 Mar. 1888.-Faite par Alice. La dessin
original (Figure 80) represente une grappe de raisin. Alors succes-
sivement et assez lentement, presque sans rien dire, Alice fait les dessins
suivants (Figures 81, 82, 83, 84 et 85).
Digitized by Coogle
108 .Relation de Diversea Expiriencea, &c.
}t'w. 110.
FlO. 81.
FlO. 82.
Digitized by Coogle
\
Relation de lJiverse8 Expbiences, ~c.
109
FlO. S3.
.1<'10. 84.
110
c
,
,
I
I
Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, &c.
FIG. 85.
II est assez interessant de suivre Ie dth-eloppement progressif de l'idee.
D'abord quelque chose de tout-A-fait informe, qui peu A peu Be precise
et finit par devenir une feuille. On remarquera l'analogie de cette pro-
gression avec une progression analogue, lorsque ils'est agi de l'ecrevlsse.
E:r.perience XXXVII., 12 MaTS 1888.-Faite par Leontine. U>
FIG. 86.
dessin (Figure 86) represente un hallon. Leontine dit: "Je ,"ois une
\.
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiVe'I'St8 Eccpm.ences, Icc. 111
grosse ~te avec de petites jambes." Elle fait aJors Ie dessin suivant
(Figure 87). qui est tres analogue au ballon, avec les deux cordes
qui pendent de cbaque cattS.
FIG. 87.
E:Dp~flC6 XXXVIII., 16 Mars 1888.-Faite par Claire. La
dessin original (Figure 88) represente une hirondelle. Claire dit:
" C' eat une t3te. Au milieu il y a une Ute, et puis It. gauche cela Be
.termine en pointe, comme une queue. En avant il y a une petite barre
omme un carri." (11 est possible que ce carre represente 180 moucbe
q.u vole en avant.) "Dansie bas c' est noir, et tres epais." Je pense
Digitized by Coogle
112 .Relation de Diverse8 Ea1pbie'nC68, &c.
FIG. 88.
aune ~te de perroquet, et je fais Ie dessin suivant (Figure 89), qui
ressemble a l' hirondelle auui peu que possible. Mais ladeacription
FIG. 89. . . .
vnrbale que Claire a donmle eat bien meilleure. ... .. .
de queue. Noter qu 'il s' agiSBAit aUBSi d'
E~ XXXIX., 22.Amll
original ft'p~nte une looomlDti1fQ
cireulaires at des triangles dana
lea rayons d' une roue. Or
roues dont Oil voit les
E~~ XL., 29
dt' M. A. Myers, de M. et
Stlnte un daDlier.
DigitizedbyGoogle ...AJ
Relation de Diver es Explriences, t/;c. 113
I' air de se reternr entre eux j c' est comme un damier. lIs sont unia
par leurs sommets, et Ie tout forme un carre."
Experience XLI., Juillet 1885.-Cette experience est plutot une
observa.tion qu' une experience. Jusque ici tous lea faits que je viens
de rapportel' proviennent d' experiences faites dans l' etat aomnambu-
lique. Mais Ie fait suivant, qui m' est personnel, a ete observe en
dehors de tout somnambulisme.
Pour faire des experiences de luciclite ou de tranamiaaion mentale,
je venais Ie matin m~me d' achoter un jeu de cartes, dites tarotB,
representant des personnages divers, des triangles, des coupes, des
epees, servant aux presticligitateurs, et aux magiciens faiaant de 1&
magie amusante. J e regarde quelques uns de ces deaaina, et je lea laisse
ensuite sur rna table.
A ce moment mon ami 1\1. Ferrari vient me voir. Je lui parle de
mon nouvel achat, et je lui dis, moitie en plaisa.ntant, moitie serieuae-
ment: "Faisons une experience."
Alors il prend Ie jeu de dossins, et me dit, "Qu' est-cequeje regarde 7"
J' etais a. peu pres it deux metres de lui, et il tenait Ie jeu trea pres de
ses yelL"'C, de maniere que, meme si je I' eusse voulu, je ne pouvais rien
voir. J e suis sur d' ailleurs de n' avoil' ni vu, ni cherche avoir. Je ne &ais
pourquoi je lui ai dit: "Un moissonneur, un champ de bIe, des
paysans qui fauchent, qui moissonnent."
Or Ie dessin que M. Ferl'ari regardait alors par haaard repreaentait
180 l\-Iort habillee d' une grande dl'aperie et tenant ala main une immense
faux. J e suis sur que je n' avais pas vu cette image dans Ie jeu ;
d' ailleurs il n' y en avait qu' une dans Ie jeu. Peu~tre inconaciemment
mes y eux a vaient-ils vu Ill. mort a.vec sa faux : en tout cas consciemment
j' affirme que j e n' avais pas vu cette image. A u reate, ce n' eat pas la
mort squelette que j' ai pens6e, c' est un moissonneur, un paysan, des
paysans fauchant et faisant 180 moisson da.ns les bles.
Ce qui est cor c' est ue j' aie pense a Ia. moisson, alors
que je n' y pense fois 1 moment meme ou H. Ferrari
• us les faux.
ye de refaire cette experience.
neme 10 ou 12 esaais-j' ai eu Ie
-et cela sans Ie moindre succes.
leillir relativement aux deBBins; il
enter encore, oherchant des faits
Assurement mes experiences soot
nces de M. Guthrie; mais je ne me
que je donne ici n' entralneront pas
ce, incriminer Ie mode experimental.
gine, dans Ie procede experimental.
Digitized by Coogle
112 .Relation de Dive'l'8e8 Expbience8, &c.
FIG. 88.
aune Mte de perroquet, et je fais Ie dessin suivant (Figure 89), qui
ressemble a l' hirondelle aUBBi peu que poBBible. Mais 180description
FIG. 89.
vllrbale que Claire a donnee est bien meilleure. Elle a parle de Mte et
de queue. Noter qu'il s' agiS8l\it auBBi d' un oiBeau.
Experience XXXIX., 22 ..d.vrilI888.-Faite par Alice. La dessin
original represente une locomotive. Alice voit un rond avec des ronds
circulaires et des triangles dans Ie rond, qui figurent relativement bien
les rayons d' une roue. Or 180 locomotive, deBSinee en silhouette, a deux
roues dont on voit les rayons.
Experience XL., 29 Mars 1888.- Faite par Eugenie. En presence
de M. A. Myers, de M. et de Madame Sidgwick. La deBBin original repre.
sente un damier. Eugenie dit: "Ce sont des triangles: Us ont
igitized by Goog
.Relation de Div6rsea Eaperiences, J:c. 113
I' air de se retenir entre eux; c' est comme un damier. TIs BOnt unis
par leurs BOmmeta, et Ie tout forme un carnS."
E~ XLI., Juillec 1885.-Cette ex~rience est plutOt une
observation qu' une ex~rience. J usque ici tous lea faits que je viens
de rapporter proviennent d' ex~rienCeB faitea dans l' ~tat BOmnambu-
lique. Mais Ie fait suivant, qui m' est personnel, a ~~ observe en
dehors de tout BOmnambulisme.
Pour £&ire dea exp4SrienCeB de lucidi~ ou de transmission mentale,
je venais Ie matin mame d' acheter un jeu de cartes, ditea tarotB,
reprt!sentant des personnages. divers, des triangles, des coupes, des
epees, servant aux prestidigitateurs, et aux magiciens faisant de la
magie amusante. J e regarde quelques una de ces deasins, et je les laisse
ensuite sur ma table.
Ace moment mon ami M. Ferrari vient me voir. Je lui parle de
mon nouvel acha.t, et je lui dis, moiti~ en plaisantant, moitie erieuse-
ment: "Faisons une ex~rience."
Alors il prend Ie jeude dessins, et me dit, " Qu' est-cequeje regarde ,"
J' etais apeu pres adeux metres de lui, et il tenait Ie jeu tres pres de
sea yeux, de maniere que, mame si je l' eusse voulu, je ne pouvais rien
voir. Je suis sur d' ailleurs de n' avoir ni vu, ni cherche a.voir. Je ne sais
pourquoi je lui ai dit: "Un moisaonneur, un champ de bM, des
paysans qui fauchent, qui moisaonnent."
Or Ie dessin que M. Ferrari regardait alors par hasard representait
la Mort habilIee d' une grande draperie et tenant ala main une immense
faux. de suis sUr que je n' avais pas vu cette image dans Ie jeu ;
d'ailleurs il n' y en avait qu' une dans Ie jeu. Peutratre inconsciemment
mea yeux avaient-ils vu Ia mort avec sa faux: en tout cas consciemment
j'affirme que je n' avais pas vu cette image. Au reste, ce n' est pas la
mortsquelette que j' ai penstSe, c' est un moisaonneur, un paysan, des
paysans fauchant et faisant la moisaon dans les bl~.
Ce qui est curieux, c' est que j' aie pen~ a. la moisaon, alors
que je n' y pense pas une fois l' an, au moment mame ou H. Ferrari
avait BOUB lea yeux la mort tenant une faux.
J e dois ajouter que noUB avons essaye de refaire cette experience.
Nous avons fait cinq ou six, peutratre mame 10 ou 12 essais-j' ai eu Ie
tort de ne pas lea compter exactement--et cela sans Ie moindre succas.
Tels sont les faits que j'ai pu recueillir relativement aux dessins; il
eat e\;dent que je continue aex~rimenter encore, cherchant des faits
plus probants, plus demonstratifs. Ass~ment mes experiences sont
une confirmation des belles experiences de M. Guthrie; mais je ne me
dissimule pas que les reproductions que je donne ici n' entraineront pas
toutes lea convictions.
Comme on ne peut, dans l' espece, incriminer Ie mode ex~rimental.
puisque il n' y a pas, je m'imagine, dans Ie procede experimental.
I
Digitized by Coogle
114 .Relation lk Diverses Experiences, &;c.
d' erreur possible pour les faits de III. seconde serie, il faut admettre que
c' est, soit Ie hasard, soit 1& lucidiM ou clairvoyance qui m' a. foumi las
dessins que je donne.
J e ne reviens pas sur Ie fait de cette objection du hasard. Ce n' est
pas que je III. neglige; je III. crois au contraire fort serieuse, d' autant
plus que dans aucun dessin il n' y a eu une identiM rigoureuse entre Ie
dessin original et sa. reproduction; mais, apres mure reilexion, je me
decide en definitive ane pas accepter Ie ha.sa.rd comme III. cause de cas
phenomlmes.1 On ne compte pas avec Ie hasard dans las conditions
ordinaires de III. vie; pourquoi irait-on l'invoquer dans Ie cas actuel t
J' ai donne las faits, et je laisse au lecteur Ie soin de .luger.
Ainsi je ne crois pas Ie hasard soit 111. cause de cas ressemblances.
J e suis persuade qu' il y a. quelque chose de plus. 1\Iais quoi f
Evidemment l' hypothese de III. transmission mentale ne peut suffire.
Da.ns les experiences de III. deuxieme serie, il n' y avait pas de transmis-
sion mentale possible; ou alors il faudrait a.c:lmettre une transmission
mentale adistance, 1\1. Ferrari, 1\1. Hericourt, M. Bellier, M. Ha.nriot, qui
m' avaient donne des dessins, etant las uns et las autres tres loin de nous
quand je faisa.is l' experience, c' ast-Brdire, quand je donna.is a deviner
Ie dessin fait par eux, dessin que je ne connaissais absolument pas.
J Voici lea experiences quej'ai faites pour determiner I'inftuence du hasard. J' ai
pris, parmi lea deasins que j'avais donnes" deviner, 60 dessins &\1 hasard. Je lea ai
enfermes dans des enveloppes opaques, et j'ai pri.! differentes personnes que je nom·
merai E, B, G, R, M et V, de me (&ire des dessins en leur montraut, aprea chaque ten-
tative. l' originalqui correspondait. Par une .erie de combinai80ns que me donnait Ie
b&sard, j'ai pu arriver" un total de 5,408 experiences, chiffre considerable, qui repond
" peu pres " 30 fois Ie nombre des experiences faites sur mes 8Omll&mbules. En com-
parant lea deMins obte.us avec lea dessina originaux, j' ai eu 1a proportion suivante,
qui indiqup Ie plua ou moins de ressemblanoo du del8in fait avec Ie dessin original.
98 trl!a bons.
94 bons.
173 aasez bona.
Ce qui, en rapportant &100 Ie nombre des succlm. me donne sur 100 experiences:
1.8 trea bon.
1.7 bon.
3.2 asaezbon.
En laissant de oot.! ooux qui BOnt aasez bons, et en ne prenant que ooux qui 1IOI1t.
bons et trim bons, je trouve pour100 experiences 3.5: 00 qui repond pour mea 200 ex-
periences & 7au~. On voit qu' il y a 1& une difference considtlrable; puisque II1D'
mea 200 experiences je suis arriv.!" plus de 20 succlls. II ne faut pourtant pas ntlgliger
ootte proportion, relativement considerable, de 3.5 s\lcces sur 100 experiences..
Plusieurs de oos sUcOOs donnes par Ie haaard, ont ete tree remarquablea, et aU88i re-
marquablea que ooux que je donne. Quelques una merna I'ont tit.! beaucoup plUII; une
dizaine" peu pres 80ntdans 00 cas.
AU88i l' hypothlme du hasard, qui, au debut de mes recherche., me l~t t.out.-~
fait negligeable, me paratt-elle devenir, par Ie fait merne de ISO experiences, pl1l8
aerieuse que je l' avais pense d',abord. En vertu meme des chiffres que je rapporte eS
du contrble que j'ai inatitu.!, je ne la croia pas fondee ; mais elle m.!ritait d' 6tre ex-
aminee de trim prea.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses Experiences, ti:c. 115
D' ailleurs eux-memes ignoraient quellStait parmi lea nombreux dessins
fournis par eux celui que je donnais aderiner.
En dehors de toute hypo'hese, il me semble plus rationnel de
Bupposer qu' il y a dans certains etats psychiques des somnambules une .
facultl de connaw(J1IC6 dont nous ne pouvons souJ>qonner la nature.
Ce n' est pas de l' hyperestMsie sensorielle; ce n' est pas la persp.icacitlS
normale, naturelle. C' est quelque chose de profondement mystlSrieux,
qui ditrere radicalement de ce que nous connaissons.
II est possible que cette facultlS de connaissance repose sur la
perception d' un phenomene materiel quelconque. La. matiere a.
des forces que IlOUS ne soupc;onnons pas, tout simplement, parce
que nos sens ne nous en avertissent pas. Pourquoi certaines
proprilStes de la matiere, inconnues de nous, ne seraientrelles pas
appreciables par les somnambules 1 Ne voyons-nous pas dans la nature
des faits qui noUB paraissent presque inexplicables 1 Qu' un lievre passe
dans une prairie, et un chien retrouvera sa trace pas a pas une heure
apres f .Certaines bacteries apprecient des quantit6s d' oxygene qui
sont moindres que la millionieme partie d' un milligramme. II faut
avoir Ie courage de notre ignorance. Nous ne savons rien de III. nature
qui noUB entoure que ce que nos sens nous apprennent, et il est possible
que des sens nouveaux se developpent dans certains etats physiolo-
giques sp6ciaux.
Dire qu' il y a chez les sujets endormis, non chez tous, mais au moins
chez quelques uns d' entre eux, une fa.culM de connaissance differente
de nos moyens de connaissance normaux, ce n' est pas beaucoup avancer
III. question. Cependant c' est deja. quelque chose que de poser Ie prob-
leme de .:ette maniere. L':l fait de la transmission mentale parait
m&iD.tenant a. peu pres prouve, m~is je crois que cette telepathie n' eat
qu' un cas particulier d' un fait bien plus general-Ia fa.cult6 de connail-
sance des somnambules.
Cette puissance s' exerce non seulement sur les pensees humaines;
transmission des sentiments, des idees, des images-mais encore sur lea
notions relatives a. des objets materiels. Quoique maintes fois on en ait
cite des cas isoles plus ou moins bien observes, je ne crois pas qu' on
&it ama.sse avec autant de methode que j' ai essaye de Ie faire des faits
aussi nombreux que ceux que je viens de rapporter.
Toutefois, pour un phenomene aussi etrange, il ne suffit pas de
donner quelques preuves, il faut en donner beaucoup. Je comprends
tres bien que mes graphiques ne sont pas encore suffisament demon-
stratifs. Si je me lIuis decide a. les publier, c' est pluWt pour indiquer
la methode 8. suivre que pour apporter les resultats. Ce que j'ai voulu,
c'est bien moins entrainer les convictions que f&ire refIechir, et engager a
tenter de nouvelles recherches. Si, de part et d' atitr~, en France, en
Angleterre, en Italie, en Allemagne, on reunissait les fa.its soigneuse-
] 2
Digitized by Coogle
116 Relati<m de DiV6T868 Expbienc68, cl:c.
ment observes, on reussirait, je crois, beaucoup mieux: que je n' ai pu Ie
faire, a. etablir quelques conditions du phenomene.
Pour me resumer, je pense avoir etabli, par des preuves qui, pour la
methode au moins, sont tout-il.-fait rigoureuses, qu' il n' y a pas
seulement transmission mentale, mais ausai luciditi.
Je Ie repete: pa.r suite des precautions que j' ai prises dans Ie
modus oplJ'I'Undi, il n' y a. que deux: hypotheses posaibles: ou bien Ie
hasard, ou bien III. lucidite. Quand d' a.utres observateurs, je ne dirai
pas plus patients, ma.is plus perspicaces ou mieux: favorises que moi,
auront mieux etudie Ie phenomene, il sera temps de songer aen donner
l' explication. A present il mut se resoudre, se resigner, aun grassier
empirisme, c' est-il.-dire, a constater que, dans certaines conditions
speciales, il y a connaissance des choses par d' autres procedes que nos
procedes physiologiques normaux.
CHAPITRE VIII.
EXPERIENCES RELATIVES AU DIAGNOSTIC DES MALADIES.
C' est assurement une des questions que les somnambules et les
magnetiseurs de profession ont Ie plus souvent traitees. On sait que,
des les premiers moments du magnetisme animal, Ie marquis de
Puysegur a fait faire par sea sujets endormis des diagnostics de
maladies. Actuellement, dans tous les pays de l'Europe, noml)re de
cabinets de somnambules sont ouverts, et les sujets endormis-
reellement endormis, cela va sans dire--y donnent des consultations
medicales. Ces consultations sont assez detaillees; et je suis tente de
croire, sans grandes preuves al'appui d'ailleurs, que parfois il s'y fait des
diagnostics remarquables. Malheureusement, III. credulite du public fait
que toutes les paroles de III. somnambule sont interpretees dans un sens
favorable au diagnostic reel. Elles passent en revue tous les appareils
organiques qui peuvent titre atteints, et, quand eUes arrivent au point
soufi'rant, Ie consultant est enchante, et conclut aun succes.
La somnambule arrive donc bien vite asavoir approximativement a.
quoi s' en tenir sur III. maladie de celui qui III. consulte. Une fois qu' elle
tient Ie diagnostic, Ie reste vient naturellement, et elle decrit la maladie
d' apres une sorta de schema qu' elle s' est fait assoz facilement, grice
aux livres de medecine et aIII. pratique des malades.
J' ai exptSrimente au point de vue du diagnostic des maladies
avec Alice, Helena, et Eugenia. Alice n' a aucune habitude des
consultations medicales. En effet, c' est moi qui l' a.i endormie pour 1&
premiere fois, et elle n' a ete endormie que par moi. Helena a fort peu
l' habitude des consultations; cependant elle a ete magnetisee par un
medecin qui s' occupait aussi de diagnosticil medicaux: dans Ie
somnambulisme, et elle a easaye, en s' endormant elle-mtlme, de donner
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses E~bienc88, J:c. 117
quelques consultations. Quant & Eu~nie, elle a pra.tiqu6, et elle
pratique encore, dans un cabinet de consultations; ce qui lui donne une
grande habitude des malades.
Exp~ I., 1 Octolwe 1886.-Fa.ite par Alice. Mon confrere et
ami, Ie Profeaaeur Fontan, "pporte les cheveux d' un malade, et il ne dit
abaolument rien de III. nature de III. maladie.
Voici textuellement les paroles d' Alice.
" C' est un homme tres brun, pAle: il est poitrina.ire. II a mal
ala. poitrine, et puia encore "-(ici elle s' a.~te et porte la main en
arriere vera 1a fease gauche.) II II a plus de 40 ans. II ne garde pas Ie
,lit, maia il est pourtant tres malade." (Elle montre Ie bassin &gauche,
Ie ftanc gauche, Ie cate gauche.) " n souffre par la. II ne touaae pas
beaucoup."
Cette experience, III. premiere que j' aie faite avec Alice sur Ie
diagnostic des maladies, est fort interessante; car Ie malade dont M.
Fontan avait apporte les cheveux est un homme de 25 ana, ouvrier du
port de Toulon, poitrinaire, tousaant peu d' ailleura, et ae levant. II est
entre &I' h6pital pour une fistule &l' anus, qui Ie fait BOuffrir plus que
sa. tuberculoae.
E~ II., 1 Octolwe 1886.-Faite par Alice Ie meme jour
et da.ns lea memes conditions. Le Profeaaeur Fontan a apporte des
cheveux d' un de sea malades; maia, par erreur, M. Fontan me met sous
enveloppe non pas lea cheveux, maia Ie papier OU il a inscrit &1'avance
Ie diagnostic.
Alice dit: "II n' est pas malade. J e voia une pla.ie & III. jambe"
(elle montre Ie genou gauche). "Je ne voia pas autre chose. C' est dft
aun accident; une voiture renversee."
En reaIiti6, il s'agit d' un individu tuberculeux, atteint d'abOOs
froida multiples, un entre autres au doa du poignet. II faut noter qu' il
y a un an cat homme a eu une synovite fongueuse de nature tuber-
culeuae, ouverte et trea douloureuse, au genou gauche. Cette plaie est
apeu pres cicatrisee au moment ou est fa.ite l' experience avec Alice.
E~e III., 2 Octobre 1886.-Echec. Alice diagnostique une
fillvre, alora qu' il s'agit d' une kera.tite ulcereuae.
E~e IY" 3 Octobre 1886.-Fa.ite par Alice. Un de mes
amia, M.P., lui demande ou il est malade. Elle dit, "n n' a mal ni & III.
tAte, ni au COlur, ni & III. poitrine, maia aeulement 1&" (elle montre Ie
baa ventre, et les flanes de chaque coti6 de l' a.ine). "La marche lui fa.it
grand mal."
Or M.P. est atteint de coliques nephretiques.
Expbience V., 4 Oceobre 1886.-Fa.ite par Alice. Cheveux
envoyes par Ie Professeur Fontan.1 Echec complet. Alice diagnoatique
1 On ne 8'dtonnerapas des mota techniques que je meta ici pour expliquerlee dilWt"
Digitized by Coogle
118 Relation de DiVeT8e8 Expbiences, Icc.
une sorte de pt'Sritonite avec fiavre. Il s' agit en reaIitt'S d' un homme
ayant une fracture du bras.
Experience VI.-Cheveux envoyt'Ss par Ie Professeur Fontan.
Experience faite par Alice, Ie 4 Octobre 1886.
II C' est une femme. Elle est au lit. Elle 8: quelque chose comme
un cancer. Elle soufl"~ 1&": (elle montre la poitrine du <:Ott'S droit).
.. Il Y a une plaie &l' extt'Srieur. Ce n' est pas au sein. C' est au
dessous du sein; elle soufl"re beaucoup. Elle ira encore loin. Elle
n' est pas vieille. La plaie est grand8t & peu pres comme la paume de 1&
main ; elle soufl"rira encore 10ngtemps. Elle ne gut'Srira pas. C' est IS.
tout son mal ; mais il est grand. La plaie est en dehors. C' est au-
dessous du sein." (Elle indique Ie danc droit et Ie <:Ott'S t'Spigastrique
droit.) Cette description, erront'Se en bien des points, krite d' ailleurs par
moi textuellement avantque j' eftsse Ie diagnostic reel, est parfois assez
exacte et curieuse. Il s' agit d' un tuberculeux, tres malade, avec phleg-
mon iliaque ouvert.
E:r:plrMnce VII., 18 8eptemhre 1886.-Experience faite par Alice.
14. Hericourt m' a envoye des cheveux portant les numt'Sros I et 2.
Pour Ies cheveux du numero 1, elle me dit qu'il s' agit de quelqu'
un qui n' est pas malade, de M. Hericourt lui-m~me ou de sa femme.
Cela est exact. Il s' agissait des cheveux de M. Hericourt, et je
l' ignorais.
E:r:p!rMnce VIII.-Le m~me jour. Expt'Srience faite avec las
cheveux portant Ie numero 2. Voici les paroles d'Alice: .. Cas cheveux
me font mal. C' est un efl"et etrange que je n' avaisjamais ressenti encore.
J' etoufl"e. Ce sont les cheveux de quelqu' un des siens. Quand je lea
touche, je me sens toute saisi8t tout Ie corps et toute la Wte. C' est
une femme qui est dans son lit, qui souffre" (elle montre la ceinture)
" avec des frissons partout. Elle est bien malade. Elle a des crises,
des etoufl"ements. Elle soufl"re dans les reins." (Elle montre lea
danes, les reins et la region epigastrique inferieure.) "Elle ne peut
pas se lever: mais elle n' a pas de plaie. Elle est encore tres jeune.
Des que je touohe sea cheveux, cela me donne des crampes, des spasmes
et une boule & la gorge. Puis tout se passe, et il me reate un grand
mal de Mte. Elle n' a ni fiav~ ni maladie intt'Srieu~ ni plai8t rien
que des crises nerveuses."
Telles sont les paroles que j' ai recueillies et notees avant de savoir
que! etait Ie diagnostic du malade dont les cheveux m'avaient ete envoyes.
Je n' ai su Ie rt'Ssultat que huit jours apres. II s' agissait des cheveux
de Madame H., bien portante. J e crus qu'il y avait 1& un khec;
mais l' khec etait plutOt un succes: car Madame H. venait d' accoucher
n08tica qui me 80nt donnes. Comme j' ignore la nature de la maladie ~ Wagn08tiquer,
je fais moi·mAmeIe diAgn08tic d'aprllsles paroles d' Alice, et je r ticris par avance, pour
ne paa me laisser influencer.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiV6'1'868 E:cpbi,ences, Icc. 119
10 jours auparavant, en sorte que la description donnee par Alice peut
litre presque regardee comme une description des douleurs de
I'accouchement.
Ezpbience IX., 22 8epeemlYre l886.-E~rience faite par Alice.
Mon confrere et ami, M. Ch. 8egard, I' interroge sur un de sea malades j
il ne donne absolumentaucune indication verbale.
Alice dit qu' il s' agit d' une jeune fille: cc Elle est couchee j elle n' a
pas grand fievre en ce moment, mm elle en a eu beaucoup plus. Elle est
pAle, maigre, souft're dans Ie ventre, mais a souft'ert plus. Elle n' est
pas tres malade,mais ne peut Be lever. Elle a mal ala gorge, au cou ; elle
etouffe, et, quand elle respire, c' est comme du feu; elle n' a pas de plaie,
rien aux jambes, ni aux mains, et presque pas de fievre."
Oat ensemble de symptOmes est tres exact. II s' agit en eft'et d' une
jeune fille convalescente de fievre typholde. Tout est exact, sauf
qu' elle n' est ni pAle, ni maigre, et que la douleur et l' etouft'ement a la
gorge, symptOmes reels, ont ete par Alice quelque peu exageris.
EzpIrience X., 25 Novemhre 1886.-M. Hericourt apporte des
cheveux dont je ne connais pas la provenance. Voici les paroles
d'Alice: cc C' est une femme, ce n' est pas une grave maladie. Elle souft're
beaucoup." (Elle montre Ie bas de la poitrine, I' abdomen et Ie ~te droit.)
cc Pas de fievre. Rien ala ~te, rien aux bras, ni aux jambes. Tout Ie
mal est 111.." (Elle montre Ie ventre.) cc Elle tient Ie lit, et souft're
beaucoup dans Ie ventre." En disant cel&, Alice a une grande anxiete .
respiratoire.
0'etaient les cheveux d' une femme morte de peritonite. L' erreur
eat donc manifeste lorsqu' elle dit que la maladie n' est pas grave, et
qu'il n' y a pas de fievre. Mais la localisation dans Ie ventre, avec
vives douleurs, est nettement indiquee. .
E~e XI., 3 Decemhre l886.-Experience faite par Alice.
Mon ami M. P. Langlois me donne deux maches de cheveux
sans me fouruir aucune autre indication. Pour une de ces maches de
cheveux, Alice ne peut rien me dire; mais, pour l' autre, elle dit, " La ~te
eatprise. Elle est chaude. C' est une femme, pas tres agee, qui n' a rien
au jambes, ni au corps. La ~te me fait mal Elle est brillante,
lourde. La tete est completement prise." Elle montre Ie front, Ie tour
de la ~te et Ie ~te parietal gauche. Je fais, d' apres ces indications,
Ie diagnostic de meningite.
Or 1es cheveux en question provenaient d' un enfant atteint de mal
de Pott; mais les autres cheveux, ceux pour 1esquels Alice n' avait rien
au dire, etaient ceux d' un homme de 30 ans atteint d' une meningite,
dont Ie seul symptOme etait une cephalalgie intense.
Dans l' ignorance totale ou nous sommes des conditions qui president,
chez 1es sujets magnetises, a la connaissance des choses, il faut Be
garcler de conclure ala legel"6 qu'il y a 1& simple cOlncidence fortuite.
Digitized by Coogle
120 .Relation de Dive'1'8e8 Experiences, ~c.
Lea deux papiers ont ete places l' un & ~te de l' autre: oola permet
d' acimettre une sorte de banalite dans les contacts de ces deux papiers.
D' ailleurs je me contente de rapporter l' experience sans oeer en
conclure quoi que ce soit.
Ba:plrience XII., 22 Dic6mJwe l886.-Experience faite par Alice.
Mon collegue, M. Landouzy, me donne un flacon contenant de l' urine
d' un de sea malades. D' apres ce qu'Alice me dit, je f&is Ie diagnostic de
pleuresie, ou de nephrite aigiie, ma.is plutOt de pleuresie tuberculeuse
algue. Malheureusement j' ai oublie de noter ensuite quel etait Ie
diagnostic veritable-je crois pourtant que l' erreur etait complete.
Ea:pbience XIII., 27 FI'IJ'I"ier 1887.-Experience faite par Helena..
M. Hericourt est a.vec moi. 11 vient de voir un malade, et il demande
& Helena quelle est cette maladie. Dans Ie cours de cette experience,
il ne dit pas une seule parole, et c' est moi seul qui interroge Helena:
Voici les paroles textuelles d' Helena..
"Angoisse. etoufFement, vive douleur ici & gauche." (Elle montre
Ie creux epigastrique et 10. region cardio-stoma.ca.le inferieure gauche.)
" 0' est 1& ce qui est malade. 0' est comme une poche qu' il faudrait
vider; cela m' etoufFe et me monte 1&," (Elle montre Ie sternum.) "II
Y a aussi mal de tilte; mais c'est l' accessoire; 00 qui est essentiel,
c' est cette poche Ia, sons Ie cmur, qui me donne de l' angoisse. 11 y a
de 180 fievre, c' est au-dessous du cmur; cela fait Ie rondo On dirait
une poche. Tl faut vider cela.. Oela me fait mal & 10. tete par
repercussion."
Or l' experience a tres bien reussi. En efFet, il s' agit d' un ma.la.de
tuberculeux, ayant une caverne tuberculeuse, remplie de pus, & 10. base
du pOumon gauche, avec suffocation, dyspnoo, resophagisme. Oette
experience est vraiment tres bonne; car je crois litre sur que M..
Hericourt n' a eu ni un mot ni un geste d' approbation ou de desa.ppro-
bation.
Ea:pbience XIV" 1 Matr8 1887.-Experience faite par Helena.
D' abord je lui demande 00 que je pense. Elle fait trois ou quatre
erreurs. Alors je precise et lui dis, "11 s' agit de ma petite fille qui est
malacie." 11 va sans dire qu' Helena. ne peut savoir 180 ma.la.die de ma
petite fille, et qu' elle ne connait auoune personne qui puisse 10. mettre
au courant de ce qui se passe chez mOL
"Elle a mall&." (Elle montre la region costa.le laterale gauche
inferieure, tout.&-fait au niveau de 180 rate.) "0' est 1& qu' elle a mal.
Elle a mal aussi plus bas et plus MUt" (et elle etend cette region
douloureuse en bas, du ~te de l' intestin et en haut, du cate du poumon).
"Elle souflre 1& et 1&" (elle montre alors 180 region iliaque droite).
"Sous l' omoplate il y a de 10. congestion, comme j' en ai a.ctuellement au
foie. Elle soufFre &l' intestin et au poumon. 0' est 1& Ie mal principal.
Elle a aussi mal & 10. tete; mais c'est a.ccessoire, et elle porte souvent
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Di'lJe1'8U Experiences, ~c. 121
la main du caM de la nuque. See petites jambes BOnt bien faibles, et
alora eela lui donne de 180 fiavre. C'est surtout quand elle mange que les
digestions BOnt difficiles. Oela lui donne des brt1lures tout Ie long de
l' msophage."
En reaIiM, IDa petite fille, Agee de sept ana, a. depuis neuf jours une
fibre typholde caracMrisee par un peu de cephalalgie, mais tres legere,
une grande faiblesse des membres, une fievre &BB8Z forte, et peu de
douleurs abdominales. La principal symptame est une congestion
pulmonaire tres forte, presque une pneumonie, au poumon gauche.
Elle porte incessam.ent III. main, non a. III. nuque, mais au nez, on elle a
des dlSmangeaisons intolerable&. Elle ne mange d' ailleurs rien, ou
presque nen.
E:eperw'1lC6 XV., 11 MM81887.-ExplSrience faite par Helena. Je
lui dis, .. A quoi est-ce que je pense '" Alors elle divague et fait des
reponses insigniJiantes. Je lui dis, .. J' ai un enfant malade." Elle
repond :" J'allais vous Ie dire." "Eh bien, qu' est-ce qu'il 801" .. II
a tres mal a. la Ute." Puis, apres une dizaine de secondes, elle ajoute :
.. n a la rougeole." Or c' etait vrai, et je suis sdr qu' elle ne pouvait Ie
savoir, car la rougeole de mon petit gar(jOn datait seulement de l' avant
veille, et il n' y avait guere que moi et trois ou quatre personnes, tout-
a..fait inconnues d' Helena, a. Ie savoir.
Alora je lui demande, .. Pourquoi avez-vous dit 180 rougeole T' Elle
me dit : " 0' est que j' ai vu sa figure toute rouge, et puis tout de suite
oola a disparu."
Oette explSrience me parait une des plus nettes, sinon la plus nette
de toutes celles que j' ai faites sur Ie diagnostic des maladies. n n' ya
pas eu d' hesitation. Elle a dit Ie mot de rougeole a. voix basse, comme
las sujets magnlStises prononcent toujours, lorsque 180 reponse est exacte.
Dans ce cas elles disent vite et a. demi-voix, comme si c' etait une force
IStrangare qui leur dictAt 180 reponse.
E:ep1ritmc6 XVI., 26 MM81887.-ExplSrience faite par Helena. Je
venais de voir une femme atteinte d' une nevralgie faciale tres doulour-
euse. Helena me dit, " Une douleur a. l' estomac, qui remonte; tres
grand mal de calur. 0' est tres amer a. 180 bouche. Nausee comme Ie
mal de mer, avec de grandes sueurs froides, de grandes faiblesses;
d<?uleur dans Ie dos en arriare. 0' est un homme."
On voit que l' .sehec ~t complet.
E:eperwnceXYII., 4,A"nlI887.-ExplSrience faite par Helena, a. 6
heures 30. Je lui demande la maladie de 0., mon domestique, atteint
d'une nevralgie sciatique gauche, tres intense et tres douloureuse. Helena
me dit, II II a mal a. la Ute. La Ute est tres grosse, tres pesante, tres
douloureuse, et puis un commencement de Havre et de mal a.
l' intestin."
La diagnostic etait tout-a.fait errone. Maisje dois ajouter que dans
Digitized by Coogle
122 .Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, cl:c.
111. nuit du 4 au 5 Avril, et Ie lendemain matin, 5 Avril, C. est pris
de sueurs tres abondantes, avec un leger etat febrile, et surtout une
cephalalgie extremement violente. Alors, a.ccompagne de M. F. Myers,
qui est en ce moment a Paris, je retourne chez Helena., ce m~me jour,
5 Avril. A peine ai-je endormi Helena. qu' elle me di~ "Attendez, je
vais vous donner de sea nouvelles. II a toujours tres mal ala tAte.
C' est un commencement de fievre. La. tAte est tres douloureuse, et
l'intestin est pris. La. fievre n' est pas deela.ree encore. C' est un com-
mencement probablement de fievre muqueuse ou typhoide; mais je ne
peux rien dire; ce qui domine, c' est Ie mal de tAte."
J e suis sur de n' avoir donne aucune indication. D' ailleurs il n'y
a pas eu chez C. de fievre typhoide, quoique il edt tout-llrfait les
sympMmes d'une fievre typholde commenctante; au bout de trois ou
quatre jours, il emit gueri. II n'en est pas moins vrai qu' Helena a
diagnostique la cephalalgie et 1& diarrhee.
Experience XVIII., I) Avril 1887.-Experience faite par Helena.
M. F. Myers lui demande la maladie d' un de sea enfants. 11 s' agit
d' un eczema infantile. L' echec est complet. Elle parle d'une tumeur
du foie, de cavernes, de douleurs abdominales avec syncopes.
Expbience XIX.,6 Avril 1887.-Experience faite par Eugenie.
Eugenie vient chez moi, et je fais venir C., dont j' ai parle plus haut,
qui est encore atteint de sa violente nevralgie sciatique. Le mal de
tete a disparu. Eugenie ne peut faire Ie diagnostic. Elle parle de
douleurs abdominales et de douleurs thora.ciques.
Experience XX., 2 Mai 1887.-Faite par Helena.. Je lui dis
qu' un de mes enfants est malade. Elle ne peut pas dire ce qu'il a.. Or
il s' agit de la. rougeole, et elle pouvait vraisemblablement, d' apres ce
qu' elle savait de la mala.die d' un autre de mes enfants, il y & un mois
et demi, supposer qu' il etait de nouveau question de rougeole. Elle
ne l' a pas fait cependant.
Expbience XXI., 3 Mai 1887.-Experience faite par Helena.. Je
lui parle d' un malade que je viens de voir. Elle me di~ "C' est un
homme; il n' a rien aux jambes. C' est une maladie generale." Elle
montre Ie ventre et Ie thorax. " II Ya un anea.ntissement profond, de
l' atonie. La. circulation n' existe pas. II y a des souff'rances generales
dans Ie ventre et dans les intestins. Mais je ne puis preciser. C' est
11n manque de circulation generale qui amene les evanouissements. Je
sens que je defaille et que je vais m' evanouir. II yale creur qui ne
fonctionne pas. 0' est un organe qui a perdu 1110 vie. C' est Ie crear,
et, dans l' estomac, il ya de la. gastralgie."
Cette description est a certains egards assez exacte. II s'agissait
d' une jeune femme que je venais de voir Ie matin meme, et qui venait
d' avoir une metrorrhagie intense, avec des syncopes dues a la grsnde
quantite de sang perdue. Pendant une heure elle etait restee presque
Digitized by Coogle
.&lation de Diverses Experiences, lee. 123
en syncope. Elle avait eu aussi quelquea douleurs abdominales assez
fortes, plus fortes probablement qu' elle ne me l' avait avoulS, car il
s'agissait d' une fausse couche qu' elle avait voulu dissimuler.
E:x:pbience8 XXII., XXIII., Be XXIV., 9 Mai 1887.-Faites avec
HtfltSna. Je vais avec HtSMna chez Madame de M., qui l'interroge
sar divers malades. n va de soi que je recommande a Madame de M.
de ne rien dire dans Ie cours de cet interrogatoire, et elle se conforme
rigoureusement ama recommandation, de sorta que c' est moi seul qui
parle aHtSMna, et j' ignore absolument queIs sont lea maladea dont il
est question.
Pour Ie premier malade, HISMna dit, II J' ai mal aux nerfs. J e suis
tres agitOO. n n' y a pas moyen de respirer." (Elle montre Ie sternum
et Ie bas du sternum.) II J' ai 1& un poids qui m' etouffe. Surtout j' ai
lea nerfs tres agites. Je ne peux me retenir. J' ai mal a1& ~te et
dans Ie derriere de 180 Ute, mais moins qu' a 1& poitrine. Lea jambea
faibles. J e suis presque sans connaissance."
Ce diagnostic est relativement exact. n s' agit d' une jeune femme
atteinte d'une grande irritation bronchique chronique. Depuis plusieurs
annlSes elle tousse sans pouvoir gutSrir de cetteopiniAtre bronchite. En
outre elle a un peu d' hysMrie, et un etat de spleen et de tristesse
presque insurmontable, avec une grande agitation nerveuse.
Pour Ie second malade, HeMna dit, II Fievre, mal dans les reins;
j'ai chaud et je souffre dans les reins." Elle montre Ie ooM droit et Ie
foie, et elle dit, "La douleur fait Ie tour." Alors elle indique tre.
~ 180 region Mpatique: "La douleur part des reins. Elle
fait Ie tour. Le caM enfle, avec des douleurs tres vives. Une fievre
brdlante avec des douleurs dans lea reins." En disant les reins, elle
montre uniquement Ie foie.
Le diagnostic est exact. II s' agissait de M. B., qui n' a ala vtSriM
aucune fievre, mais qui souffre depuis deux ans d' une affection htSpatique
rebelle, avec un teint bilieux et des douleurs vives dans 180 region
hepatique.
Pour Ie troisieme malade HeMna dit, II J' ai mal a la ~te. J e ne
puis definir ma sensation. J e suis a bout de forces, sur Ie point de
m'evanouir, mines par 1& fievre. Ce n' est pas un mal violent, c' eat un
mal languissant, un malaise indescriptible; j' ai mal partout· et mal
nulle part."
lci encore, Ie diagnostic est exact. II s' agit de M. C., jeune homme,
qui, apres un stSjour de quelques mois daus lea pays Qhauds, a un etat
ftSbrile vague, sans localisation precise, une fatigue permanente, et un
affaib1issement general des forces.
Ea:penence faite par Alice, 20 Mai 1886.-Je viens de voir un
enfant qui a au genou une periostite rhumatismale douloureuse. Alice ne
peut rien me di~: je remarque qu' elle ne se tAte pas 1& poitrine
Digitized by Coogle
124 Relation de Diverses Ezpbiences, cl:c.
et Ie ventre, ou la t4\te, comme elle fait d' habitude, mais les deux
genoux.
Expbi8nce XXYI., 22 Mai 1887.-Faite par Alice. J'ai une
gingivite determin~ par de la potasse que j' ai, dans Ie cours d' une
experience de chimie, aspi~ par megarde. Alice ne peut rien me dire.
Expeneme XX YI I., 24 Mai 1887.-Faite par Alice. J e viens de voir
une dame atteinte d' une nevralgie faciale ext~mement douloureuse.
Alice ne peut rien me dire de precis. Elle dit," Douleurs avec des crises "
(etelle montre Ie cote droitdu thorax). "J' etouffe; je ne puis respirer.
C' est dans Ie ventre. C' est & la ceinture." Elle montre aussi lea
reins. En somme echec complet.
E:x:pbi8nce XXYIII., 1 Juin 1887.-Faite par Alice. J' aieu une
legere angine avec forte cephalalgie au debut, il ya troisjours. Elle
dit: "Mal au creux de l' estomac, avec une chaleur qui monte a. la
poitrine et a. la t4\te. C' est la poitrine, la t4\te et l' estomac, mais
surtout la t4\te." Indications nulles, en somme.
Expbieme XXIX., 2 Juin 1887.-Faite par Alice. Mon collegue,
M. Hanriot, lui demande Ie diagnostic relatif II. quelqu' un qu' il vient
de soigner; il ne donne aucune indication. Alice dit: "Je vois un
homme, couche, dans son lit, tres malade, tres malacie. C' est une forte
fievre. La tete est prise, mais c' est surtout 1& qu' il souffre," et elle
montre les deux plis de l' aine a. droite et a. gauche.
En reaIite il s' agit d' une petite fille de 12 ans, qui vient de mourir.
Au moment de l'etablissement de sea regles, elle a ete prise de douleurs
'lobdominales tres violentes, portant au bas du ventre, et d' une fievre
tres forte, ce qui a fait acimettre une peritonite.
Expbi8nceXXX., 15 Mai 1887.-FaiteparHeIena. Jeluidis que
je pense a. un malacie, et je lui demande quelle eat la maladie de cette
personne. Je venais de voir M. C., dont il avait ete question dans
l' Experience XXIV., mais assurement rien ne pouvait faire deviner
qu'il s' agissait d' un malade dont il avait ete deja. question, et que ce
malacie flit Ie meme que celui de l' Experience XXIV.
Lea paroles d' Helena sont a. peu pres exactementles memes quepour
l' Experience XXIV.: "0' est un aneantissement general. Je souff"re
partout. J e n' ai plus de forces. J e n' ai mal nulle part, et j' ai mal
partout."
Expbieme XXXI.-Faite par Helena. Je lui demande ce que je
pense. Elle me dit que je veux l'interroger sur un malade, ce qu'il est
assez facile de de\jner. Elle me dit, " Douleurs du ventre, de l'estomac,
de la tete." Or il s' agit d' un enfant ayant une legere blessure a1&
jambe. Echec complet.
Expeneme XXXII., 22 Mai 1887.-Faite par Helena.' Elle ne peut
pas deviner que j' ai une gingivite. Voir plus haut l' echec d' Alice
sur cette meme question. (Experience XXVI.)
Digitized by Coogle
E~ XXXIII., 25 Mai 1887.-Faite par Helena. (Comparer
cette experience al' Experience XVII.) Je viens de voir Madame F.,
atteinte de nevralgie faciale. Alice ne m' avait rien dit de precis. II en est
de m~me d' Helena. Voici ses paroles: " J' ai mal dans cette partie du
corps" (elle montre Ie ventre et Ie bas ventre du ~te du pubis). "C' est
Ii. que je souft're. Va monte jusque ala tete, mais dans la tete ce n' est
que de la repercussion; la source du mal est dans Ie ventre. C' est
comme si j' etouft'ais" (elle a alors une sorte de crampe generale). "I.e
mal a monte am' etouft'er, il m' a monte au OOlur, etj' ai eu comme une
attaque de nerfs, avec un manque de vie et de circulation. Je me suis
raidie, et cela m' a donne mal ala tete ; mais Ie principal est toujours
dans Ie ventre."
La description ne sa rapporte pas du tout a Madame F., mais il
faut noter que, Ie matin et la veille, je venais de voir un individu sur
lequel, bien portant, pour faire une experience de physiologie,
j'avais fait avec mon collbgue Hanriot une injection de trois centi-
grarnmes de morphine. II avait mal tolere cette assez faible dose de
morphine, et avait eu pendant deux jours (I' injection avait ete faite Ie
23 Mai) une forte cephalalgie avec des douleurs vives dans les reins,
de 1& difficulte pour uriner, et m6me de la retention d' urine. Lea
douleurs, tres fortes, portaient sur Ie bas du ventre.
La description s' applique donc plutOt a ce malade qu' aMadame
F. J' en dirai autant de la description donnee Ie m6me jour par
Alice (voir Experience XXVII.), mais il faut se mefier de ces
arrangements faits apres coup; qui rapportent Ia reponse aautre chose
qu'a la question faite. Pour ma part j'estime qu'il faut les mentionner;
mais n'en pas tenir compte.
E:cperieru;e XXXIV., 3 Jum 1887.-Faite par Helena. II s' agit
de 1& m~me malade, au sujet de Iaquelle j' avais la veille interroge
Alice. Je dis a· Helena qu'il s' agit d' une petite fille de 12 ans.
Helena me dit, "Je ne peux pas parler; j' ai de la peine a respirer;
cependant Ie mal n' est pas dans la gorge. Lea membres s' engourdis-
sent, comme s'ils mouraient dans mon corps" (elle montre Ie ventre
avec force, en appuyant de toutes ses forces sur Ies aines et Ie bas
ventre). "II me passe comme des courants froids dans Ie ventre. J' ai
mal ala ~te et froid aux pieds. J' ai un frisson general, et besoin de
me rechauft"er.II
Quoique il y ait dans la description une grande banalite, il faut
comparer les tennes d' Alice et ceux d' Helena. On I trouvera quelque
ressemblance. (Voir Experience XXIX.)
E~ XXXV., lundi, 6 Juin.-Faite par Helena. J' avais
ete avec M. Langlois, Ie 4, J uin, pour voir Helena, et lui demander
Ie diagnostic de deux malades soignes par lui. Nous ne l' avions pas
trouvee. I.e 6 J uin, au matin, M. Langlois ne m' ayant rien
Digitized by Coogle
126 Relation de DiVer8e8 Erxpbie'nCeB, &7c.
dit et n' etant pas- venu avec moi, j'interroge Helena sur ces
malades.
Alors elle s' etend, semble s' endormir, puis elle gemit, Be raidit, porte
10. tAte en arrillre, et se courbe en arc de cercle, avec les poings fermes
et les jamhes contra.cturees. Elle pousse des cris en gemissant, dit
qu' elle a des frissons, et que 10. tAte lui manque. Je porte Ie diagnostic
de meningite. II est vrai que je suis tente de faire ce diagnostic; car
M. Langlois est attache iI. un bapital d' enfants ou 10. meningite est,
comme on sait, tres frequente.
Les deux malades de M. Langlois etaient atteints, l' un d' un
hydropneumo-thorax; l' autre d' une meningite. Cetto meningite etait
tout-a..fait au debut, avec ralentissement du pouls, et cephalalgie, mm
sa.ns cris, ni contra.ctures.
Experiences XXXVI. et XXXnI., 15 Juin 1887.-F8oites par
Helena et Alice. I.e mihne jour, je demande ades heures difFerentes a
Alice et aHelena., ou je soufFre. J' ai une forte courbature dans les
bras pour avoir, dans des experiences de physiologie, essaye de soulever
des poids trop lourds. Or ni l' une ni l' autre ne peuvent rien me dire
de precis. J' avais aussi eu 10. veille un peu de conjonctivite, par suite
d' un corps etranger dans I'mil. Rien de precis ni d' interessa.nt.
Experience XXXVIII., 5 Juiliet 1887.-Faite par Helena.. Dans
180 journee du 4 J uillet Helena a eu une crise nerveuse tres violente.
J e ne puis 10. voir que Ie 5 au matin. La nuit a ete tres agitee, et ace
tlloment milme, elle semble encore sous Ie coup d' une agitation presque
delirante. J e 180 calme en 10. magnetisant. Magnetisee, elle redevient
presque aussiWt raisonnable. A un moment donne, sans rien dire, je
pense al' interroger sur la. sante d' un de mes enfants. Elle me dit
(contrairement ases habitudes), "Comment vont vos enfants' 11 y
en a un qui est tombe et s' est fait du mal." De fait, l' avant-veille, un
cIe mes fils etait tombe dans l' escalier et s' etait fait une grosse bosse au
front. Mais je ne pensais pas alui. J e pensais aun autre de mes fils,
qui, en jouant dans Ie jardin, s' etait blesse avec une faux.
Experience XXXIX, 8 Juilkt 1887.-Faite par Alice. Je lui
<lemande de me dire comment un de mes enfantB s' est fait mal. Elle
<lit: "Rien aux mains, ni aux genoux, ni aux jambes." Elle montre Ie
flanc droit. C' est donc un echec complet.
Expe-rien.ce XL., 7 Ao!u 1887.-Faite par Helena.. J' ai vu dans la.
m8otint~e M. F. A., Age de 75 ans, qui a ete atteint dans la. nuit de
coliques nephretiques atrocement douloureuses, a\'e.c une crise d' asthme,
et un affa.iblissement general. Mon ami, M. P. Janet, m' a.ccompagne
chez Helena.. 11 ne sait absolument rien de 10. maladie de 10. personne
pour laquelle je consulte Helena.. Pour rendre l' experience plus
concluante, c'est lui qui interroge Helena., et je Ie prie de fa.ire un
diagnostic precis d' apres ces paroles milmes.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiverseB Experiences, cfcc. 127
Elle dit : cc n y a de la fievre. Le CQlur me manque. J e me sens
usee, affaiblie; ce qui domine, ce sont des douleurs dans les reins; une
sensation de cuisson, comme du feu, avec une suppression de la respi~
tion. Mal de tAte, mm rien 8 I' estomac et au ventre. Les jamhes
sont faibles. Tout Ie oote gauche est malade, mais, ce qui domine, c' est
la forte douleur dans les reins 8 gauche." 1
M. Janet fait Ie diagnostic: pleurw doulouretU16 Ii gauche. Ce
diagnostic est assez interessant; car souvent les medecins ont quelque
peine 8 distinguer 1& pleur~ie de la colique nephretique.
Explrience XLI., 6 AoiU 1887.-Faite par Eugenie. Je lui dis
qu' un de mes enfants s'est fait mal. Elle dit qu' il s' est coupe, pince 8
l' index de la main gauche, ce qui n' est pas exact ou du moins est tres
ancien; car il y a plus de trois semaines qu' il s' est pince tres Iegerement
a l' index de la main gauche. Elle me dit qu' un autre enfant s' est
fait une bosse au front. Le fait m' etait inconnu; mais, en rentrant
chez moi, i' apprends qu' en effet un de mes fils, celui 18 meme 8 qui
pareil accident etait arrive il y a un mois, est tombe dans l' escalier
et 8' est fait une grosse bosse au front.
Explrience XLII.-Faite par Eugenie. J' ai relju il y a 12 ans 8
~ chasse un grain de plomb, qui est reste sous la pesu et que j' ai
encore. Ce grain de plomb est 8 la pesu du bras, au nive8u du coude
droit. Eugenie, apres nombre d' essais infructeux, ne peut me dire OU
il est loge. .
Explrience XLII!., 18 AozU 1887.-Faite par Eugenie. Mon
cocher avait ete pris Ie matin de coliques tres fortes avec diarrhee,
pour laquelle je l' avais soigne. C' est lui, neanmoins, qui peut me
conduire en voiture chez Eugenie. Au moment de descendre de
voiture, je lui demande un objet quelconque qui peut servir 8 Eugenie
pour mire Ie diagnOBtic~n effet Eugenie ne peut faire de diagnostics,
que si elle a un objet appartenant 8 la personne malade.-Je suis Bur
de m litre abstenu de toute indication. Voici ce qu' elle dit.
" Mais il a une inflammation de l' intestin. II a Ie sang tres Acre
avec des douleurs dans Ie cote gauche. L' intestin est enflamme. II
aura de la constipation, puis de la colique, avec une faiblesse generale,
mm pas de fievre."
L' experience a donc tres bien reuni.
EZplrience XLIV., 19 Ao'IU 1887.-Faite par Eugenie. J' ai ap-
porte un objet aya.nt appartenu 8 un de mes amis qui vient d' etrP. pris
d'une Mmoptysie, avec congestion pulmonaire, probablement tuber-
culeuse. Eugenie fait une erreur complete. Elle dit qu'il 8' agit d'un
homme de 55 8 60 ans, atteint d'une maladie du foie.
Explriences XL v., XLV!., et XLVII., 27 AOzU 1887.-Faites par
1 La colique ntlphnltique de M. A., quoique bilattlrale, a porttl surtout sur Ie c6tt1
puch..
Digitized by Coogle
128 Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, &7c.
Eugenie. J e conduis Eugenie a l' H8pital Tenon, dans Ie service de
mon collegue et ami, M. La.ndouzy. Elle est alors amenee endormie de-
vant Ie lit de divers maladea. Pour ces malades, dont Ie diagnostic, fait
par La.ndouzy, a ete ecrit al' avance, nulle indication ne m' est donnoo,
et je dois faire Ie diagnostic d' apres 1es paroles d' Eugenie. n est
entendu que Ie diagnostic est impossible afaire pour moi comme pour
tout autre d' apres l' habitus exterieur du malade. Le ma.1a.de n' est
pas interroge par Eugenie, et elle doit diagnostiquer sans interroger.
Pour Ie premier malade, une femme, eUe dit: "Le mal est
etendu partout, mal a 10. poitrine surtout. Grande Hevre, etat de
faiblesse, d' anemie; estomac fatigue, supportant malla nourriture. I.e
mal principal est dans l' estomac et Ie foie. La. poitrine delicate; 10.
bile mal secrete8 ; houche seche. Ce qui domine, c' est 10. maladie de
l'intestin et du foie."
D' apres ces paroles, je diagnostique-tuberculose avec phenomenes
gastro-hepatiques.-Le diagnostic reel est-ataxie locomotrice sans
Havre, avec douleurs fulgurantes ; integrite visceraJe; pas de troubles
gastro-intestinaux.-C' est donc un tSchec complet.
Pour 10. deuxiame malade, Eugenie dit, "Fiavre, anemie. Les
bronches et 10. poitrine sont prises." (Je dois noter que pendant
l' examen fait par Eugenie 10. malade a tousse deux ou trois fois.)
"Du cate des poumons grande masse d' ea.u, des glaires, avec etouffements,
faiblesse, bronchite aigiie ; houche seche. Les nerfs sont delicats. II y
a aussi de 1", delicatesse de 180 matrice et de l' inflammation. Vous
guerirez tres bien, et, dans un mois, cela sera tini"
Je fais Ie diagnostic-pleuresie et tuberculose.-
Le di"'gnostic reel est-Havre typholde, avec tra.cbeo-bronchite;
et tuberculose; grossesse de quatre mois.
Pour la troisiame malade, Eugenie dit, "Du cate du ventre, une
tumeur." Eugenie a tate Ie ventre de la malade, et a pu constater
qu' il y a une tumeur abdomina.1e. .A. travers 10. couverture tres legere,
j' a.i pu voir Ie ventre tres ba.11onne. "II Ya une grande masse d' eau
dans Ie ventre, un kyste, une poche enorme. L' aorte est dilatee. I.e
sang afHue au cmur. La. gorge est prise, et Ill. poitrine est mala.de, mais
moins que chez les deux malades precedentes. Les urines sont difficiles,
rares et rouges. Glaires d",ns les bronches."
J e fais Ie diagnostic-affection ca.rdiaque.
Le diagnostic reel est-insuflisa.nce mitrale, ascite,dilata.tion du C<eur
droit, mdame pulmonaire.
On voit que cette der~iare experience .est accompagnee de succes..
On peut cependant faire une objection. Dans queUe mesure 10. tumeur
abdominale a.-t-eUe servi aEugenie et amoi-m~me pour faire Ie diag-
nostic exact t II est presque impossible de Ie I!&voir. Quoique
Eugenie ait l' habitude de donner des consultations, je doute qu' elle
Digitized by Coogle
129
sache assez de m~ecine pour conclure de l' ascite a une affection
cardiaque, d' autant plus qu'i1 n' y avait chez cette malade auoun autre
signe de lesion du OOIur. De plus, elle a parle de kyste et de bronchite,
ce qui est au moins contradictoire avec I' hypothese que Ie diagnostic
d' une I&Jion du OOIur a ete fait par elle parce qu' elle a vu une tumeur
du ventre. Quant amoi, j' avais vu 1& tumeur, mais je ne savais si
c' etait une grossesse, un kyste ovarique, ou une tumeur ascitique due
ade 1& cirrhose, comme c' etait Ie cas Ie plus probable; mon diagnostic
n' a ete fait que lorsque Eugenie a dit, "L' aorte est dilatee." Alon
seulemerit j' ai pense aune affection cardiaque. J e crois bien que 1&
tumeur du ventre m' a confirme dans cette opinion, mais elle ne me l' a
pas donnee. 0' est Eugenie qui m' en a 'donne l'idee en disaut,
"Aorte dilGUe, 1J(J1I{I u.Dl1MJnt u.u canw."
Nous faisons voir encore a Eugenie un quatrieme malacie: mais
elle est fatiguee, et ne s' y p~te qu' 8. contre-cmur. Elle dit: " Dans
l' intestin grele; ulcerations. Elle ne digere pas. Tout l' intestin est
eufiamme."
Je fais Ie diagnostic-fievre .typholde-alors qu' en realite i1 s' agit
d' un goitre exophthalmique.
Je dois faire remarquer que, Ie matin de cette experience, que nous
avions projet.ee depuis longtemps, Eugenie me prevint qu' elle etait
indisposee et qu' elle ne verrait rien. J e n' ai pas cru pourtant devoir
remettre aun autre jour cette tentative.
B~ XLYIII., 2 N01161TIbre 1887.-Faite par Eugenie. Je
lui demande qui j' ai ate voir. C' eat un de mes amis malacie, M. G.,
atteint de fievre tuberculeuse. Elle me dit qu' elle ne pourra rien dire;
car je n' ai pas apporte lea cheveux de M. G. Oependant elle ajoute :
"n est tree nerveux, avec une forte fievre, et surtout une maladie
nerveuse. n a presque Ia danse de St.-Guy (chorea)." En reaIite M. G.
a une forte fievre, mais, quoique il soit ext~mement nerveux, il n' eat
rieu moins que menace de Ia chorea. 0' est son etat pulmonaire que
domine tout.
Experience XLIX., 6 Nooemhre 1887. -Faite par Eugenie. Je
lui apJlOrte des cheveux de M. G., sans lui dire naturellement qu'il
s' agit de la mAme personne que l' avant-velie. De plus, l' avant
vellie, je ne lui avais pas dit Ie diagnostic vrai. Elle me dit: "C' est
un .stat de fievre. C' est une fievre d' inflammation. Tout est rouge 8.
l' interieur; surtout l' estomac. 11 y a une inflammation generale,
surtout des reins et de l' estomac. 0' est une maladie inflammateire de
l' estomac et des reins, avec courbature. La tAte est lourde, la bouche
pAteuse; il y a des coliques. 11 est assez malacie." Tout ce diagnostic,
eat fort inexact, et ne se rapporte pas du tout a M. G., qui a une
dyspepsie, de Moyenne intensite, et une forte fievre, mais aucune
Muon renale.
Jt,
Digitized by Coogle
130 .Relation de Diver868 Experiences, tI:c.
EzpbienctJ L., 27 OctolwtJ 1887.-Faite par Alice. Je lui demande
ce qu' elle pense de M. G., que je nomme. Elle l' a vu autrefois, il y a
plus d' un aD. Elle me dit: "11 n' a pas e~ aouvent malade; il n' est
pas gravement ma1ade, cependant. Ce qui me preoccupe Ie plus, c' est
sa poitrine. 11 tousse. 11 a quelque chose a 1& poitrine. Est-ce une
fluxion de poitrine' 11 a confiance en vous. 11 vous ecoutera plus que
tout autre. Ce qu' il a de bon, c' est qu' il ne s'inquiate pas. 11 y a deja
qu~lque temps qu' il est malade, et il est un peu mieux maintenant."
I.e surlendemain, comme je lui demande si M. G. va mieux, ene
dit qu'il va mieux, ce qui est malheureusement inexact.
n est tres difficile de dire si ce diagnostic exact d' Alice est dil ace
qu' elle avait vu autrefois M. G., qui toussait peut-etre un peu ; mais
a peine. Oe qui me fait croire qu'il n' en est pas ainsi, c' est qu' elle a
parle de fluxion de poitrine, maladie aigiie. I.e diagnostic'est assez bon ;
car la congestion tuberculeuse de M. G. ressemblait beaucoup cliniqu~
ment a une pneumonie.
E~ LI. tJe LI1., 28 N()1)tJmiYrtJ 1887.-Faites, l' une par Alice,
l' autre par Eugenie. J' ai eu depuis trois jours des battements dE' creur
assez douloureux, avec un peu d' angoisse cardiaque. Interrogees separe-
ment sur ce que j' ai ressenti, ni Alice, ni Eugenie ne peuvent rif'n me
dire. Elles ne peuvent pas dire non plus que j' ai eu de tree vives
douleurs nevralgiques a 1& jambe..
EzpbienctJ LIIl.-Faite par Alice. M. Rericourt lui demande ce
qu' elle pense de 1& san~ de Madame X., qu' ilsoigne, et qui est atteinte
de metrorrhagies.
Alice dit: "Elle n'a pas de Havre. Elle n' est pas bien malade ; par
moments elle est agitee, nerveuse, at ad' autres moments elle est abattut",
sans tiavre. Rien d'inquietant; seulement" (ici se place une longue hesita-
tion) "elle est comme une femme qui est dans une position interessante."
II faut remarquer qu' elle ne dit pas textuellement grossesse; mais
qu' elle etablit seulement une aorte de comparaison entre l' etlLt de
Madame X. et I' atat des femmes enceintes, ce qui est assez curieux,
au Moina pour Ia similitude des troubles fonctionnels de l' uterus.1
J'ai tenu iL donner les resultats de mes nombreuBes experiences en
leur (,(\D~rvant Ie caractere d' un registre d' experiences 6delement et
exac1;t,ment tenu. J e n' ai omis aucune des experiences faites, et je
crois avoir, autant que possible, donne les paroles m4!mes que lea sujets
avaient prononcees, sans me permettre d' y rien changer. En effet,
l' interpretation est si delicate que toute moditication du texte primitif
peut induire en erreur. n ne faut donc ni ajouter, ni retrancher.
L' etude de ces 53 experiences peut 4!tre divisee en deux parts. n
faut examiner d' abord les procedes de connaissance et les phenomenes
1 Mdme. X. eat devellue enceinte Ie muiB auivant.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses EaperUnce8, t!cc. 131
Bubjectifa des Bujets; en second lieu, Ie rapport entre les sensations
qui les amenent &un diagnostic et 180 reaIiM des choses.
nest certain que, quand on parle a un sujet somnambulique, non
aiuque, ni prevenu, d' un malade quelconque, Bon premier sentiment
eat une sone de sentiment de douleur. Peu a peu 180 douleur
a' exaspere, et il y a presque une scene de larmes, soit par commiBeration
morale, soit pluUlt par une sone de contagion psychique qui leur inflige
nlellement les maux dont on parle.
On peut reJlarder ce phenomene comme au-dessus de toute contesta-
tion. Une somnambule non eduquee souft'rira quand on lui parlera
d' un malade. Si on lui annonce que telle personne dont on lui donne
la main est malade, elle va eprouver des sensations maladives. C' est l8.
Ie fait brut, indiscutable, qui s' observe sans exception.
Ainsi, en dehors de toute education, il y a un retentissement tel de
l' idee sur 180 sensation que I' idee d' un etouffement, par exemple, va
chez un suiet sensible amener 180 sensation d' etouffement. II suffit de
parler de douleurs dans la tete pour qu' un somnambule ressente des
douleurs dans la tete. J e n' examine pas la question de savoir si cette
repercussion du malade au sujet est veridique ou erronee; je me con-
tante de montrer que I' idee d' une douleur amene cette douleur.
De l8., chez Alice et Heiena, qui ne sont pas eduquees par
l' exercice quotidien de consultations ades malades. cette sone d' etat
de souffrance qui accompagne chez elles Ie diagnostic. Au lieu de dire :
"n y a de la cephalalgie," elles disent: "Milo tete est atrocement
douloureuse. J' ai Ie ventre tellement sensible que l' on ne peut y
toucher; j' etouffe: je ne puis respirer."
Quant & Eugenie, elle ressent bien aussi quelque chose d' assez
analogue. Elle perc;oit lea douleurs de ces malades: mais tres peu, et
I~rement. L' habitude a emousse cette repercussion du malade a la
8Omnambule, et cela etait necessaire: car, avec 10 ou 15 consultations
par jour, elle semit a180 tin de la joumoo cruellement fatiguee. Elle a
done, pour ainsi dire, d' autres procedes de connaissance qui correspon-
dent peut;.4;tre a d' autres faculMs, mais qui en tout cas different
profondement des procedes d' Alice et d' Helena. Elle voit les organes
malades; dit: "tel organe est rouge, tel autre est gonlie, etc." Je ne
saurais dire si c' est l8.le developpement d' une faculM normale. mais, en
matiere de somnambulisme, je suis tellement convlloincu de l' influence
80uverame de l' education et de l' habitude, que je croirais volontiers
qu' a l' etat normal, sans education, cette faculM n' existe pas, et
qu' elle est 180 consequence fatale de I' education donnee.
Donc, ce qu'il y a de naturel, c'est 180 sympathie qui s'exerce
entre un malade quelconque et Ie sujet endormi. C' est 1& un fait
qui me paratt bien prouve, et sans contestation possible.
K 2
Digitized by Coogle
132 Relation de Diverse8 Expbience8, &:c.
n ne s' agit pas ici, je Ie repete, de sa.voir ai cette sympathi~ est
justitiee ou ,non, ma.is seulement si elle existe. Or elle enate; cela
n' est pas douteux un sew instant. Que je ruse a une somna.mbule .
." J' ai une migraine violente," elle croira. aussitOt avoir les symptOmes
de 180 migraine. Or croire souffrir ou souffrir, c'est apeu pres 1& m~me
chose, et je delie qui que ce soit d' eta.blir une difference entre une
douleur reeUe et une douleur imaginaire.
Qua.nt au procede de connaissa.nce qU'elles emploient, il est aussi, de
par les differences d'education, tout-8-fait different. Alice et Helena
n' ont besoin de rien. II leur suffit que je parle de tel ou tel
malade; elles oont le chercher, comme elles disent, et decrivent alors
tant bien que ma.l ce qu'el1es croient ressentir. Eugenie a besoin,
para.it-il, d' un o~iet ayant appartenu au malade. Ma.is, quoique elle
soit evidemment bea.ucoup mieux douee, je n'ai pas trouve qu' elle resaisse
mieux qu' Alice et Heiena.. Auasi sera.is-je tente de croire que cette
necessite d' un objet ou de 180 presence d'un malade est encore un fait
d'educa.tion.
J e ne voudrais pas nier l' influence que, pour un diagnostic exact,
exerce Ie contact, soit du malRde, soit d' un objet quelconque lui ayant
appartenu. Nous sommes trop profondement ignorants des procedes
de connaissa.nce que les somnambules emploient pour conclure. Je
dis seulement que ce contact ne me para.tt pas indispensable. Cela.
ne veut pas dire qu' il ne joue aucun rOle. n me semble que noua demona
admettre, pOur les diagnostics de maladies comme pour 180 nohon des
dessins, quelque faculM de conna.issa.nce superieure,s' exe~nt par des
moyens que nous ignorons totalement. Que ce soit une aorte de lucidite
speciale, ou de lucidite 8' exer~nt par Ie contact, l' effet est Ie m~me ;
c' est une sympathie teIle que les douleurs du malade Be repercutent
plus ou moins sur Ie somnambule. 0' est peut~tre m~me cette
sympathie qui est leur procede de connaissa.nce.
Le point Ie plus interessa.nt, c' est de sa.voir jusqu' aquel degre de
precision elles pEluvent arril'er da.ns ce diagnostic. J' ai fait, comme on
I' a vu, 63 experiences. Le succes complet, net, sa.ns tergiversa.tions
possibles, c' est I' Experience XV., dana laquelle Helena me dit, en
parlant d' un de mes enfants qui a 180 rougeole depuis deux jours, "n
a Ja rougeole." A part ce diagnostic tres precis, tous lea Butres sont
incomplets. Oependant on se tromperait en concluant que les RUtres
aont des erreurs. Pour cela Dons allons les separer en trois groupeB.
n y aura Ie groupe des err6U1'8~le groupe dea banalitu telles que,
tous les appareils eta.nt passes en revue, I' appareil atteint Be trouve
rompris dans 180 description morbide ;-et entin Ie groupe des demi-
succes, ou les indica.tions sont plus precisea que ne po11l'l'l\it
vraisemblablement les donner quelqu' un parlant au hasa.rd.
Voici les maladies pour lesquelles l' erreur a ete complete.
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Di'IJe'1'8eB EzpbienceB, J:c. 133
Keratite ulcereuse, fracture du bras, nevralgie faciale, nevralgie
thoracique, eczema infantile, nevralgie aciatique, rougaole, gingivite,
(deux fois), angina, nevralgie faciale, bleasure ala jambe, courbature,
grain de plomb au bras, hemoptysie,'blessure a. 180 jambe, ataxie loco-
motrice, fievre typhoi'de, goitre exophthalmique, angoisse cardiaque
(deux fois). Cela fait en somme 20 echecs complets.
II est a. remarquer que dans ce nombre sont surtout compris les
petits accidents morbides que j' ai eprouves depuis deux ana, et sur
lesquels je demandais quelques details. Alice, Helena et Eugenie ont
ete egalement impuissantes a me donner quoi que C6 soit de precis.
Peut-atre cela tient-il a 180 legerete meme de I' affection dont j' avais ete
atteint, mais je croirais pluwt qu' elles ne peuvent presque jamais faire
une localisation exacte, res1'4nt toujours dans Ie vague, et 88 conten-
tant d' indications confuses sur l' etat des visceres abdominaux ou
thoraciques. .
n faut faire une place apart pour les observations XI., XVII.,
XXXIII. et XXXV. Dans cas quatre observations Ie diagnostic
dema.nde est totalement errone j mais les paroles prononOOes peuvent se
rapporter ad' autres malades connus de moi ace moment meme.
Dans l' Experience XI., M. Langlois me donne les cheveux d' un
homme atteint de meningite, et les cheveux d' u~ enfant atteint de
tuberculose vert6brale. Je donne a diagnostiquer les cheveux de
l' enfant, et elle dit "Meningite."
Dans l' Experience XXXVII., M. Langlois me donne des cheveux
d' un enfant atteint de meningite et lea cheveux d' un enfant atteint
d' hydropneumothorax. Je donne les cheveux de I' enfant qui a un
hydropneumothorax, et Helena me dit "Meningite."
Dans l' Experien!l8 XVII., Helena fait un diagnostic tout-a.fait
faux. Au lieu d' une nevra.lgie, elle dit cepha.lalgie et fievre. Mais Ie
malade a, Ie soir du jour ou Helena avait dit cephalalgie et fievre, une
tievre assez forte avec une cephalalgie intense.
Dans l' experience ou j' interroge Helena sur Madame X., atteinte
de nevralgie faciale (sans d' ailleurs lui dire Ie nom et Ie :88xe), elle
decrit lea sympt6mes de Sauvage, que j' avais vu Ie matin, et qui avait
ete legerement empoisonne par une dose trop forte de morphine.
n me semble qu' en l' etat actuel des choses, vu notre ignorance des
points de repere pris par les somnambules pour faire lea diagnostics,
noUB devons considerer cas experiences comme des demi-succes, ou
pluwt comm~ des demi-insucces.
Ce qui rend les reponses tres banalea, c' est que les somnambulea
passent en revue successivement tousles appareils organiques. Aussi
proposerais-je, non pas d' etablir des diagnostics de maladies, mais
de regions malades.
Nous aurons alor&, en ne faisant que Ie sommaire des indications
Digitized by Coogle
donnees, la liste suivante dea experiences qui ont plus on moins
riussi.
I.-Tuberculose pulmonaire et fistule anale.--Malade poitri-
naire et doulenr an bassin. .
II.-Tuberculose et abces. Vieille synovite au genon ganche.--
Plaie au genou gauche.
IV.-Coliques nephretiques.--Ventre et ames.
VI.-Tuberculose. Phlegmon iliaque.--Plaie au bas du
thorax.
VII.-Pas de maladie.--Pas de maladie.
VIIL-Pas de maladie. Accouchement il y a 10 jours.--Pas
de fievre, crises nerveuses, ventre et reins.
IX.-Fievre typholde en convalescence.--Ventreet thorax. Pas
de fievre, ni de plaie.
X.-peritonite.--Ventre et thorax. •
XI.-Tuberculose, caveme pulmonaire.--Thorax. Une poche
qu' il faut vider.
XIV.-Fievre typholde et congestion pulmonaire.--Intestin et
poumon.
XV.-Rougeole.--Rougeole.
XXI.-Metrorrhagie et syncope.--Ventre, thorax, et eatomac.
Le creur ne fonctionne pas.
XXII.-Bronchite chronique. Agitation nerveuse.--Agitation
nerveuse et thorax.
XXIII.-Affection hepatique.--Foie et reins.
XXIV.-Faiblesse generale.--Faiblesse generate.
XXIX.-Peritonite.--Les deux aines.
XXX.-Faibiesse generale.--Aneantissement general.
XXXIV.-Peritonite.--Ventre at aines. Frissons.
XXXVIII.-Ohute et bosse au front.--Bosse au front.
XL.-Ooliques nephritiques.--Douleurs dans lea reins.
XLI.-Bosse au front.--Bosse au front.
XLIII.-Ooliques et diarrhee.--Inflammation.de l'intestin.
XLVII.-Affection cardiaque.--Aorte dilatee. Sang aftluant
au creur.
L.-Hemoptysie. Congestion tuberculeuse.--Fluxion de
poitrine.
LII.-Metrorrhagie.-Grossesse.
Oe resume est evidemment des plus imparfaits, et it ne peue diBpM&8er
de lire Ie compte rendu ditailll dell dilJfJ1'lItJ8 explrien.c68. En effet, en
resumant ainsi lea experiences, d' une part on omet les erreurs qui ont
eM faites, d' autre part on ne tient pas compte des faits exactement
diagnostiques.
Si l' on voulait, ce qui est absolument impossible, tenir compte du
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses Eapbiences, <he. 135
calcul des probabilites, il faudrait et&blir a peu pres huit regions-III.
t6te, Ie thorax, Ie OOlur, l' estomac, Ie foie, les reins, Ie ventre, et les
membres.-On aurait alors, je suppose, un huitieme de chance pour
dire exactement. On voit que, sur 52 experiences, j' ai obtenu a peu
pres moitie des reponses justes, ce qui est plus que l' indiquerait Ie
calcul, puisque, si mon appreciation des probabilites etait exacte, je
n' aurais du avoir que six ou sept reponses exactes.
Mais c' est une etrange illusion que de vouloir traduire par des
chifl'res cas donnees mouvantes, incertaines. n vaut mieux const&ter
que, dans un certain nombre de ca.s, il Ya eu des reponses vraiment
etonnantes.
Dans la premiere observa.tion, des Ie debut Alice a dit, "n est
poitrinaire, et puis 18," et elle indiquait Ie bassin. Or il a'agi.ss&it
d' un tuberculeux atteint de fistule al' anus.
Dans l' Experience VI, alora que tres rarement elle parle de plaie,
elle a vu une plaie au-dessous du sein. n s' &giaaait, il est vrai, d' un
phlegmon iliaque, par consequent assez loin du sein. Mais Ie fait de
diagn08tiquer une plaie me parait plus important que de localiser exacte-
ment Ie siege de cette plaie.
L' Experience XIII est usurement des plus remarquables. Est-ce
que Ie hasard peut £&ire dire quand on parle d' un malade quelconque,
,. n ya une poche sous Ie OOlur qu' il faut vider," alora qu' il s' agit
d' un tuberculeux avec une vaste caveme pulmonaire agauche 1
Dans I' Experience XIV, Helena indique deux points douloureux
qui correspondent precisement aux douleura de la petite malade. Celle-
ci a une fievre typhoide avec une congestion pulmonaire intense, presque
une bepatisation de tout Ie poumon gauche. Helena dit, " Sous
l' omoplate il ya de la congestion." Elle dit aussi qu' elle porte III. main
if. la nuque, ruora que l' enfant porte const&mment 1& main, non a. la
nuque, comme Ie dit Helena., maia au nez.
L' Experience XV est III. meilleure sans contredit. D' abord
Helena fait immediatement et 8&DS hesiter Ie diagnostic de rougeole.
Elle sait, il est vrai, qu' il s' agit d' un de mes enfants; mais celli. ne
suffit pas pour faire un diagnostic aussi net, Ie seul net et irreprochable
qui ait eta fait dans les 52 experiences, bonnes ou mauvaises, que je
rapporte ici.
Dans l'Experience XXI, III. malade, dont je m' occupe, a eu une
syncope. Helena, aprea des hesitations, des assertions vagues, non
erronees, mais sans precision, dit, "C'est un manque de circulation
generale qui amene des evanouissements. n yale creur qui ne fonc·
tionne pas. 0' est Ie creur qui a perdu III. vie."
Lea trois Experiences XXII, XXIII, et XXIV sont toutes trois
tres bonnes. Qu' on les relise, et on verra que pour les trois Ie diagnostic
est bien preois.-Bronchite chronique et ets.t de spleen. Helena
igitized by Goog
136 Belation de DiVe'I'8e8 Experiences, tl:c.
dit, nerfs tree agites, pas moyen de respirer, et elle montre Ie point
douloureux au sternum.-Pour une affection hepatique ancienne, doul-
eura dans les reins, Ie cOU enile, et elle montre Ie foie.-Pour un etat de
depression generale,Helena dit: "Ianguissement general," sanslocaliser
une douleur quelconque. II est bien remarquable que pour ce m&me
malade, dout je demandai quelque temps a.pree Ie diagnostic, Helena
s' est servie des m&me termes sans savoir qu'i1 s' agissait de lui.
(Experience XXX.)
Lea Experiences XXXVIII. et XLI paraissent excellentes; mais
je crois que c' est une apparence plutot qu' une realiU. Je dis: "Un
de mes enfll.nts s'est fait ma!." II est assez naturel qu'Eugenie d' une
part et Helena de l' autre me disent: une b0888 au front. Le resultat
est d' autant moins bon que je pensais a un autre accident. Toutefois
les bosses au front chez mes enfant& sont relativemtlnt rares, et je ne
crois pas que pareiI a.ccident leur soit arrive a chacun plus d' une ou
deux fois, et m&me jamais avec autant d'intensiU que ces deux joun IlL
L' Experience XLII est tree bonne, puisque M. Janet, qni ne
connaissait pas Ie malade, fait Ie diagnostic.de pleuresie avec fibre, et
que 180 colique nephretique, accompagnee de fievre, est assez facilement,
m&me par les meilleun medecins, confondue avec 180 pleuresie com-
menqante.
L' Experience XLIII peut comptel" aussi parmi les meilleures. n
s' agit d' un homme ayant une diarrhea tree forte. Des qu' Eugenie
touche I' o~jet-un coutea.u-qui vient de lni, elle dit: " C' est nne in-
flammation de I'intestin."
L' Experience XLVII est assez bonne ausai, puisque moi, qui ne
pouvais faire Ie diagnostic que d' a.pree les paroles d' Eugenie, je dis :
affection cardiaque; ce qui est vrai.
Dans l' Experience L, noUB avons encore une localisation tree
exacte. Pour mon ami G., atteint de congestion pulmonaire tuber-
culeuse avec hemoptyaie, Alice dit: "Ce qui me preoccupe, c' est sa
poitrine; est.ce qu 'iI II. une fluxion de poitrine 1"
Enfin, pour I' Experience LIII, alon qu' il s' agit d' une femme
atteinte de metrorrhagie, Alice dit, en localisant par consequent Ie
mal: "Elle est comme une femme qui est dans une position
inUressa.nte."
Voila donc a peu pres 15 experiences pour lesquelles 180 probabili~
de bien dire, tree difficiIe a apprecier, n' est guere que d' un vingtieme
a peine, et cependant je n' ai fait que 53 experiences.
On peut donc conclure qu'il y a dans I' etat somnambulique de
IucidiU quelque chose de special, une faculU de connaissance qui nous
echappe, et qu'il me parait difficile de nier. Peufi..&tre faudra-t-il
rapprocher cette sympathie des etats pathologiques des somnambules et
de ces sympathies pathologiques que M. Babinski a bien etudiees chez
Digitized by Coogle
137
lea h~riques. On Bait qu'il a donn~ dea exemples de deux
bysteriques dont I' une est atteinte de contracture, 'et qui communique
8& contracture a. I' autre.
En outre--etc' est une preuve d' un autre ordre-j' ai quelque peine a.
admettre que les consultations innombrables, donnees depuis pres d' un
aiecle dans tous les pays du monde par des aomnambules, eiiasent pu
prendre pareille exteusion l't se g~neraliser avec autant de force et de
promptitude, s' il n' y avait pas quelque chose dtl veridique derriere leurs
paroles. On peut admettre qu' eIles se trompent parfois completement,
que Ie plus aouvent elles donnent des indications vagues dans lesqueIles
Ie malade credule croit retrouver 8& maladie; mais il faut bien que
quelquefois elIes disent juste. Sans cela elles ne pourraient continuer
aexcercer leur metier, et elles seraient bien vite abandonnees. D' ailleurs,
entre elIas, elles disent volontiers : "X. a beaucoup de lucidite. Y. en
avait beaucoup autrefois, mais elle n' en a plus maintenant. Z. en a
rarement; mais, a. de certains jour&, elle est tout.a..fait lucide."
lci encore je ne pretends pas entrainer 18 conviction, je tiens
surtout a.faire naitre des doutes. 11 est tempa qu' on cease de dedaigner
cette mysterieuse puissance de connaiB8&Dce que possMent certains
sujets magnetiques. e' est trop facile de aourire, et de ne pas chercher.
II n' y a pas lieu d' @tre si fier de l' etendue de notre 8&voir humain;
et je crois @tre plus 8&ge que ces sceptiques, en disant qu'il faut
etudier avec patience la Iucidite des somnambules pour Ie diagnostic
des mf'ladies. II est temps que les hommes desintereases et vaillants
a' occupent de cette question abandonnee a des magnetiseurs de
profession.
J e ne voudrais pas dire de mal des magnetiseurs. Lea medecins et
les savants ont ete si injultes pour eux qu' on a quelque honte aIes
charger encore; mm enfin, malgre les moyens dont ils dispoaaient, ils
n' ont pas pu donner, ou ils n' ont pas voulu donner, la serie complete
des consultations d' un de leurs sujets. I1s parlent de la saga.cite, de la
lucidi~, de la double vue. Mais, pour ce qui est des exemples precis,
et, a plus forte raison, d' une longue serie, bonne ou mauva.ise,
d' exemples precis, ils aont avares de details; et la litterature mag·
netique, Hi riche en phrasoologie creuse, est absolument pauvre en in·
dications de cette aorte.
e' est pourtant cette aerie complete, impartiale, sans nulle omission
ou complaisance, consistant dans un diagnostic fait par la 8Omnambule,
alors que Ie malade ne dit rien, et que· les personnes presentes ne
fournissent nulle indication, qu'il faudrait donner. Sans cela, on
n' aboutit pas.
II semble que, de toutes les formes de lucidite, celle-ci soit la plus
frequente, et la plus facile a experimenter. AUSBi suis-je bien
com1Wlcu que mon exemple sera suivi, et qu' il se trouvera des medecins
Digitized by Coogle
138 Relation de Diverses Experiences, ~c.
qui etudieront de pres, sans crainte du ridicule, cette faculte qu 'ont lea
80mnambules pour III. diagnose des maladies.
CHAPITRE IX.
EXPERIENC&8 BPIRITIQU&8.
Pour ce qui concerne les experiences que j'appellerai Bpiritiquu,
je renverrai aux deux memoires que j'ai publies.1
FIG. 90.
J e ne reviendrai done pas sur les details experimentaux de
la methode que j'ai appeJee ['alphabet cacM. On sait que cette
methode consiste a faire repondre Ie medium, de maniere ace qu'il ne
connaisse pas III. reponse qu'il donne. Nous avons ainsi obtenu quelques
reponses tout-a-fait curieuses, qu m' ont fait admettre qu' il ya cltez les
mediums une double conscience. C' est-&-dire, d' une part; III. con·
science reguliere, normale, qu' ils ont tous, que tout Ie monde possMe ;
d' autre part une sorte de conscience surajoutoo, qui agit independam.
ment de III. conscience principale. (Figure 90.)
Cette theorie de III. double conscience, ou de l' hemi.inconscience, ou
de )' hemi'80mnambulisme, etait plus ou moins vaguement indiquee
dansles travaux de M. Chevreul; je crois )' avoir precisee davantage
dans 1M memoires que je viens de citer. II me semble que depuis mon
travail elle est aujourd' hui acceptee completement; car elle a ete con·
firmee par lesimportants travaux de M. F. Myers,! de M. P. Janet,S etde
MM. Binet et Fere.4 Elle me parait maintenant etre devenue a peu
pres classique.
Mais Ie seul point sur lequel je veuille ici insister, c' est III. lucidite
I De 14 Sugge8twn Menlak. (R«'IU Pltilo.opJr,ique, Ocwbre 1883, p. 6(9); etDa
McmtJtfM'nU IrwmleUflU, in Hommape Ii M. Cltevrnl, Aoftt 1886; et .Bevue de
I' HlIpnotilme, 1886, pp. 170et 200. Voyez aU88i l'analyee trlls exaote qui en • lite
dODDOO daDS 188 ProceediW}. of the S.P.R. 1884 f8BC. vii., p. 239.
, Automatic Tl'ritino. Procudifll/' of the S.P.R. 1887, p. 209.
• Bevue PhilolOphiqm. Mai 1887 et Mars 1888, p. 238.
• Arch'", de Pllllft4log1e. 1887, p.320.
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Diverses Experie'nCe8, J:c. 139
de cet Mmi-inconscient, lucidi~ qui lui fait dire tene ou tene chose, lui
fait trouver tene ou tene phra8e plus ou moins en.cte, et A.usai, quoique .
tres rarement, revele des faits que la personne consciente ne peut
Bavoir et n' a jamais sus.
J' en ai cite quelques exemples. J' ai donne entre autres l' exemple
dn mot Chevalon, des mots Pierre et Elomuf, des mots Danet et
Doremiod. Ce sont, je crois, des exemples tres demonstratifs, et je
m'imagine qu' on ne croira pas que Ie basard puisse produire ces
assemblages.
Cependant mon eminent conegue, Ie Professeur Preyer, d' lena, m' a
objecte que Ie haBard est bien capable de fournir ces groupements.1
Pour apppuyer cette opinion, il se fonde sur ce que la loterie de Leipzig
a donne des series plus heureuses que les series OU j'ai cro trouver
comme une probabili~ en faveur de 1110 suggestion mentale. Mais son
raisonnement ne me parait pas absolument juste; car il choisit dans les
series de tirages de 1110 loterie precisement ceux qui ont une probabili~
5' ecartant de 1110 moyenne, tandis que j'ai rappo~ toutes mes experi-
ences. n est clair que si, dans une serie de tirages, on choisit les series
divergentes, on obtiendra des chifl'res invraisemblables.
Ainsi, on a consta~, & Monaco, que 1110 rouge etait sortie 21 fois de
suite. La. probabilite de cet evenement est tree faible. On ne doit
l' observer theoriquement que sur deux millions de series. Si pourtant,
faisant 10 experiences seulement, je trouve 10 fois de suite un succes,
alors que la probabili~ est & chaque tirage de !, j' ai presque Ie droit de
conclure que Ie hasard n' y est pour rien; car je n' ai fait que 10
experiences, et on n' aura pas Ie droit de m' objecter qu' & Monaco 1"
rouge est sortie 21 fois de suite; car on choisit 1& un cas extraordinaire
au milieu d' un tres grand nombre de tirages; et on prouve par Iii.
seulement que Ie tirage de 21 rouges consOOutives est possible, ce qui
etait par avance tout-il-fait evident.
De meme encore, M. Preyer, pointant au hasard dans un livre
franc;ais, trouve au bout de 43 pointages faits au hasard Ie nom de
Cheval. n en conclut que Ie h&l!ard peut bien, si je cherche Ie mot de
Chevalon, me donner 1110 premiere fois Ie nom de Cheval. Mais ce
raisonnement est defectueux, ou plutOt il prouve seulement ceci: c' est
que Ie hasard peut donner Cheval. Aussi bien pourrait-il me donner
I'lliade toute entiere. Ce n' est pas douteux; mais, quand on arrive a
ces faibles proba.bilit6s, si la certitude morale ne peut tltre mathema-
tique, au moins il y a une certitude morale. Malgre, donc, Ie heureux
hasard qui a fait en 43 tirages donner & M. Preyer Ie mot de Cheval,
1 Voyez Preyer, Die lWkIiirung du Gtda~ 1 vol in 8, chez Grieben,
Leipzig, 1886; et specialement Cbapitre IV., .. Uber Experimente welche ('ine
nnmittelbal-e Gedankennbertragung beweisen sollen," pp. 60-67. n a ete refute
en tenn811 excellente par M. Gurney :-Telepath.ie(Friedrich, Leipzig). pp. 54·5, 60·2.
140 Relation de Dilver8e8 Experiences, Icc.
en cherchant Che1Jalon, je certme que par un assemblage de lettres
dues au haaard III. combinaiaon Cheval ne se rencontrera pas au bout de
43 eaaaia, et a plus forte raison apres un seul essai. J e tiena Ie pari
de 10 francs contre 300,000 francs avec celui qui voudra Ie tanir, avec
M. Preyer, par exemple.
Puisque jeparle des exp6riences spiritiquea quej' ai publiees, il faut
rectifier quelques erreura que j' ai commisea. Ainsi Ie mot Jean
Racine qui m' a ete indique par III. table, ne prouve pas du tout qu'il
Yait eu suggestion meatale. En effet, Ie vera que j' avais prononc~
" Et je charge un amant du ,win de mon injure"-
quoique etant inconnu al' etat conacient du medium, pouvait tres bien
~tre connu de lui al' etat inconacient. II eat vraiaemblable qu'il avait
jadis lu ce vera d' Andromaque, de sorte que c' est un simple souvenir,
ignore de lui-meme, qui a pu lui revenir en memoire. Ve meme encore,
quand je parle de deux vera de Legouve, tires d' une piece intitulee
Epic~ et Beron, on peut, par Ie style meme des vera, par Ie titre de
III. tragedie, conclure, sana aucune autre phenomene qu' un peu de
perapicacite litteraire, qu' elle data de III. fin du dix-huitieme sieole,
de Joseph Chenier, par exemple, ou de Lemercier.
Restant donc sept exp6riences pour lesquellea je maintiens
l' exactitude de mea calculs; et je n' accepta pas la critique de M.
Preyer, qui a de 1110 peine acomprendre que je prenne III. leUre voisine.
S' il avait etudie' sans parti pris mon procede d' experimentation, il
aurait bien compris que I' hesitation arepondre est toujoura entre trois
ou m~me quatre et cinq lettres. Lea mathematiquea s' appliquent
Russi bien aune probabilite de 1qu' aune probabilite de ~.
Celles de mes experiences qui sont tres defectueuses, 00 sont calles
qui ont ete faites avec III. baguette. Celles-I&, je dois lea considerer
comme non avenues. Quoique je fuasa dans oos C/I.8 Ie sujet recepteur,
iI est certain que je me laiaaais influencer par des signes exterieura, Ie
silence plus ou moins complet, III. respiration plus ou moins frequentA.>~
et d' autres syntptOmes encore, reveies par lea peraonnes presentes at
qui connaissn.ient ce que je devais deviner.
D' un autre cote, j' ai considerablement attenue dans mon memoire
1110 difticulte de comprendre comment notre a.lphabet cache pouvait etre
connu de celui qui est a1110 table. J'ai suppose qu' il y avait une per-
ception confuse du mouvement rythmique execute par oolui qui
parcourt l' alphabet avec III. plume, du bruit qu' il fait, etc. Mais cette
explication ne me satisfait guere; car nous evitions de faire Ie moindre
bruit qua.nd nous etions al' alphabet. Nous nous cachions derriere un
grand carton, et je ne puis pas encore tres bien comprendre comment
notre medium pouvait suivre ces mouvements.
Certes, il eut ete tres interessant de continuer: mais j' ai dO. sus-
pendre ees experiences: car notre ami s' est L'l.SIIIS, et a aucun prix il
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Diver8e8 Eaperitmces, 4:c. 141
ne veut recommencer ces exercicea qui l' ennuyaient, et--je ne aaia
trop pourquoi-l' humiliaient.
Outre les ~riencea publi~ deja par moi, je puis en donner
quelques autres, qui indiqueront trea nettement combien il y &, dl\Jl8
]' inconscience du medium, une intelligence apte a des operations intel.
lectuelles passablement compliqutles.
19 Jlai 1884.-Presenta, P. F., G. F. (medium), et moi. 0' est
moi qui tiens l' alphabet. Je demande un vera franqais retourne, et je
tiens l' alphabet soigneusement cacM. La reponse est-
ERDNATRIODUTMEUQVAEXEa
C' est alora seulement que je comprends Ie sens du vera indique. En
continuant, j' obtiens-
E C B D S DEI P X U A 0 B M O.
Alors je demande: "Qu' est-ce qu'il y a eu de dicte' " P. et G. se
moquent de moi, en diaant qu'ils n' en aavent absolument rien. Puis
je demande qu'il me soit indique par les mouvements de In. table
combien il manque de lettres. La reponse eat 1. Je Ie redemande une
seconde fois. La reponse est encore 1.
L' experience suivante a ete faite avec quelqu'un qui ne faisait pas
partit! de nOB reunions habituelles. Elle est irreprochable comme
experience. Reate a aavoir si Ie reauItat est au-de88us de ce que peut
donner Ie haaard. Man ici, comme precedemment, c' est toujours Ie
lecteur que je laiase juge.
J e dis a un de mes ami&, M. D., qui ne connait aucune des personnes
qui font avec moi ces experiences de spiritisme, "Pensez a un nom
quelconque, que ce 80it un personnage historique, ou un inconnu, et
nous Ie trouverons par 10. table. Le lendemain je viendrai vous dire Ie
reaultat, et alors seulement vous me direz ce nom penae par voua."
L' experience est faite par nous Ie 17 Octobre; les lettrea donnent--
F.N.T.B.T.
Or nous pouvons admettre que 10. table a repondu avec un certain
retard. Cartes 10. combinaison des cinq lettres qui precedent les lettrea
F N T B T sera due a 1& table aussi bien que 10. combiuaiaon susdite.
En prenant alors les let.tl"l'S qui precedent, nous avons 180 combinaison-
E.M.S.A.S.
Le nom a chercher etait Oeaar. On voit qu' en admettant un petit
retard pour 1& derniere lettre, et un retard encore plus grand pour 10.
premiere, nous avons-
O.M.S.A.R
Oe qui se rapproche passablement de Oesar ou plutat Cmaar.
Dans l'experience du 31 Octobre 1884, noUB avons pris plus de precau.
tions que d' ordinaire pour cacher completement l' alphabet. D' apres
1a situation que nous avons prise, il me parait impossible que G., Ie
IQ~ium, &it pu voir les mouvements que fait P. en suivant I' alphabet.
Digitized by Coogle
142 Relation de Diverses Experiences, &:c.
En outre, cet alph&bet est masque p&r un gr&nd carton. De plus nous
fmons du bruit, et nous parlons &vec tant de force qu'il eat presque
impossible aP. d' entendre III. sonnerie. Alora III. premiere reponse
est-
A.L.N.I.A.B.E.V.
Qu' on peut lire-
A.L.O.H.A.B.E.T.
De qui eat cette reponse 1 dem&ndona-nous alora. Nous sommea
qu&tre a III. table: elle est a un metre et demi de nous. F. et G. (Ie
medium) ont les yeux fermes, et nous continuons a faire en parlant un
bruit assourdissant. La reponse est-
H N POT 0 HAL D 0 U BTU E Z S F Q K E V Y.
C' est-a-dire, en admettant III. correction de III. lettre voisine-
IMPOSOIBLEOUASTEZSERJEUX
Et tinalement nous interpretons cette reponse-
Impossible restez serieux.
Dans I' experience du 1> Novembre 1884, nous nous servons d'un
alphabet circulaire; c'est-&-dire, dispose de telle sorte qu' il eat impossible
de savoii, quand je commence a epeler, par oil je commence. De plus, je
Ie parcours avec une vitesse tres difi'erente, et sans faire Ie moindre
bruit, de maniere a ce qu'il n' y &it aucune indic&tion perceptible. La
reponse est-
FA Z 0 L D O.
Celli. est tout-a·fait insignifi&nt: m&is il est interessant de con·
stater qu' en prenant toutes les prec&utions pour eviter que l' &Iph&bej.
soit connu du medium, il y &cependant un assemblage de lettres qui ne
parait pas dft &u hasard-.
FA SOL DO.
Le 9 Novembre. en pren&nt toujoura les memes precautions, m&is
en nous servant d' un alphabet ordinaire, non circulaire, Ie nom du soi·
disant esprit venu a 1& tAble est V ILL 0 N. "Alor!! noUB faisons
heaucoup de bruit, nous recitons des vers, nous chantons, nous comp-
tons, si bien que P., qui cst a I' alphabet, & peine a suivre la sonnerie.
Nous demandons un vera fran<;&is. La reponse est-
QUSNNTKFHNEIGDRDAMSAK
Ousontlesneigesdantan.
C' est-&-dire .. Oil sont les neiges d' Antan 1" ce qui est un vera de
Villon, connu evidemment de cb&cun de nous.
QueIs ont ete, demandona-nous alora, les rapports de Villon avec les
Rois de France 1
KOUHTLECRUEL.
Louis Ie Cruel.
Quel livre devons-nous lire 1
ESSAYSURDADMONINMANH~
igitized by Goog
Relation de Diver8e8 Experiences, ,te. 143
Essay aur daemoniomanie.
On comprendra que, si je mentionne ces experiences, ce n' est pas
que les paroles dites soient interessante&, mm c' est pa.rce que les
dispositions aemblaient a.ssez bien prises pour em~cher Ie medium de
connaltre ce que fait celui qui epelle I' alphabet. Je dis a.ssez bien
prises; car je n' oserais a.ffirmer qu'il y avait pour notre medium
impossihilite absolue de voir ou d' entendre.
Autrement dit il Ya difficulte extr~me, pour nos sens habituels ;
mm il n' y a pas une impossibilite radicale, comme dans Ie cas des
dessins enfermes dans une enveloppe opaque.
Je noterai encore quelques reponses; rom Ie nombre et 180 valeur
des reponses importe a.ssez peu.
FESTINALENTE.
LOFAMDTMREIINAJUBRRENOV
ARE DOL 0 REM.
Infandum, rejina, ju.bes renomre dolorem.
On remarquera la. vieille orthographe du mot: Re,iina..
Par suite de difl'erentes causes, et en particulier par la. difficulte
meme de trouver des mediums de bonne foi certaine, je n' ai pas pu
renouveler ces experiences avec l' alphabet ca.che. J' espere qu' on ne
la.issera. pas, sans 180 poursuivre, cette curieuse manifestation de
l'inconscience, qui indique peu~tre quelque chose de plus que des
mouvements mnscula.ires, intelligents, et inconscients.
J' ai eu l' occasion une fois de verifier que ce n' est pas Ill. un
phenomene exclusivement propre lI. mon ami G.l En eft'et, A Londres,
il y a deux a.ns, je £US conduit par M. F. Myers chez Madame L, qui
presente les phenomenes de l' ecriture inconsciente. Nons essa.yimes
alors de voir si, en cachant l' alphabet, on pourrait aussi obtenir quel-
ques reponses par des mouvements du crayon, mouvements se
produisant lI. 180 lettre voulue, au moment ou l' on epelle 180 lettre qui
doit etre donnee comme reponse.
Madame L sa.it un peu de fran9a.is. Nous demandons une reponse
en franqais, et M. Myers suit avec Ie doigt l' alphabet, qu' il tient tout-
a...fa.it cache pour Madame L Je ne crois pas qu' on puisse cependant
dire tout-a...fait cache. En disant tres ddJicile A voir, je crois que
noUB serons exa.ctement dans 180 verite.
Madame L fait un petit; mouvement involontaire du crayon, quand
M. Myers passe sur 180 lettre convena.ble. Alors nons avons la. reponse
suivante-
WOUSATROVVERIEZCELAJTRA
END I F E I C I J.
1 Dana LilJAt une obeervation analogue a dte publille. n ya en aUllli d' ingeDieux
euais de lIrI. Gesmaml BUr Ie m6me BUjet. P'lIMiM:i&e Stvdief>. 11186 P. 397, 4.
."11,
500,."
Digitized by Coogle
1440 .Relation de Dj,verBe8 E:x;pbiences, ,te.
Ce qu' on peut sans peine interpreter-
Vous trouveriez celli. trea difficile.
Je Ie repete, il semit bien interessant de reprendre ces etudes avec
l' alphabet cache; mais il faudrait commencer par faire sur Ies sujets
une aorte d' education, sans quoi on n'arriverait arien.
Lea experiences, en tres petit nombre d' ailleura, que je vais main-
tenant rapporter, ont ete faites sur differentes personnes: leur inte~t
ne consiste pas dans l' alphabet cache, mais dans 1ft. reponse m~me.
Comme pour toutes Ies experiences p~OOedentes, je m' abstiendrai
de tout commentaire autre qu' un commentaire experimental, et je
raconterai, aussi servilement que possible, dans quelles conditions
precises l' experience a ete faite.
Le premier eas se rapporte aMadame L., dont j' ai parle plus haut_
Etant aIle chez cette dame, d' une honorabilite irreprochable, avec M. F.
Myers, je lui demande de me donner par l' ecriture automatique une
reponse quelconque.1
Le mot indique est L E MIG N E. J e crois qu' il s'agit du
mot franqais l' enigme, maistout aussitA')t nous avons ENG I MEL,
avec cette addition. "Mon nom renverae." Ces reponses ont ete
obtenues avec l' alphabet cache. Alora Ie crayon ecrit: "Place aux
lignes." Apartir de ce moment il n' y a plus de reponse parl' alphabet
cache, et tout ce que je vais exposer Be rapporte a l' ecriture
automatique.
Je demande alors ou a vecu Lemigne. Reponse: "Saint Louis." Je
cherche alora l1lentalement ce que peut ~tre ce Saint Louis, et Ie seul
souvenir qu' evoque ce mot est III. ville de Saint Louis, au Senegal.
Alora, continuant, Ie crayon ecrit: "Petit Pont-17 rue du Petit
Pont-rue Baptiste-rue Sainte Marie--Jl dix leagues de III. capitale,
jamais plus loin j'avais ete-les trois sOlura."
Nous demandons quand Lemigne est mort, et ce qu'il etait.
Reponse: "1884 ouvrler en aouliera."
Or Ie mot de Saint Louis, associe avec Ie mot de Petit Pont, me
fait penser al' He Saint Louis aParis. n est probable que Madame
L., qui n' a jamais ete aParis et qui n' a pas Iu de romans fraoqais,
connait apeine I'ile Saint Louis de nom, si elle III. connait, et n'ajamais
entendu parler de 1& rue du Petit Pont. Aussi, en rentrant a Paris,
ai-je fait une aorte d' enquete pour savoir a quoi m' en tenir sur 1&
realite des reponses donnees par Madame L. avec l' ecriture
automatique.
Le 10 Juillet 1884, il est mort au numero 17 de III. rue du Petit
Pont, un ouvrier vitrier nomme Gemini. (J'ecris Gemini, quoique je
ne sois pas absolument silr de l' orthographe"correcte de ce nom.) Dana
1 Voir 1'importaat article de M. Myen 8ur ..tutomacic Writing.
Digitized by Coogle
la. m~D\e l'1le, 1& mAme ann~ il eat mort un oumercordonnier nommt§
Imbenit; qui demeurait avec sea trois IIC2Urs dana uu h6tel de 1& rue
du Petit Pont. '
Peu~tre trouvera-t-on quelque reaaemblance entre Ie mot Lemigne
et Ie mot Gemini.
Je notera.i enfin 8ur 1& m~me personne un fait aaaez curieu. Le
8Oir, faisant, en compagnie de M. F. Myers et de deux autres personnea,
one experience avec elle, comme noua' noua trouviona tous dana
]' obacuriM (il faisait tres froid), elle d~rit diff'erentes formea animeea
qu' elle voit paaaer devaut elle. Je n' avais pas, comme on Ie penae bien,
peur Ie mow du monde j mais, i. un moment, j' ai reBBeuti
un 3ft'et bizarre, que je ne crois pas avoir jamais eprouve. J' ai aenti
mea cheveux, ou, pour ~tre plu8 exact, quelquea cheveux, ae dreaaer 8ur
ma tAte ; et je me fa.ia mentalemeut cette remarque, que je auis comme
eIectmt§. Alors Madame 1.., qui etait i. ~M de moi, dit : "M. Richet eat
comme elaetrise."
Au point de vue de 1& suggestion mentale par 1110 table apiritique je
noterai deux experiences, faites, l' une avec Marie B., l'autre avec
Madeleine 0,
Dana l' experienceavec Marie B. elle eat aeule i. la table, qui donne
des reponsea par Ie moyen des &Oulevementa obtenus quand une troi-
aieme personne epelle l' alphabet. Je demande de citer Ie nom d' uu
des auteurs de 1& bibliotheque 011 nous nous trouvona. Marie B. eat
tree myope, et peut i. peine distinguer ce qui eat i. un metre d' ella La
reponae eat THEIRS. Or j'avais preciaement penatS i. I' ouvrage
de M. Thiers aur 1& IWvolution et Ie Oonaulat. Mais, ce qu' il y a
d' a.saez inMreaaa.nt, c' eat que preciaement cet ouvrage n' exist.e pas dana
cette bibliotheque, et que ce que j' avais pris pour ~ ouvrage de M.
Thiera, ce &ont lea CIIuvres completes de Goethe.
Cette experience ne prouve pas grand chose; car 1& m~me raiaon
qui m'avait fait penaer i. l' ouvragede M. Thiers a pu auaai pouaaer
Marie B. i. penser au m~me auteur.
Dana l' experience faite avec Madeleine G. il Y eu un reauItat .
plus frappant. n a' agisaait de penaer i. un nom quelconque, d' homme
ou de femme, personnage mort ou vivant. NOU8 etiona quatre i. 1110
table, Madeleine G. etant evidemment Ie medium. La. personne pen-
MDt a tel ou tel nom etait a trois metres environ de nOUS.8ur un
canape, et dana une obacuriM presque complete.
La. nSponae ae fait par l' intermediaire de 1110 table, qui ae &Ouleve a
1& lettre convenable, et, par un ay8teme de signea convenua aI' avance,
nous demandona ai c' eat un nom. de vivant. IWponae:" Qui." Un
nom d'homme ou de femmet--"Un homme." Alors lea Iettreaindi-
qua IOnt: L 0 I B. Oette nSponae eat un SUcc6s a.aaez curieux j car Ie
nom penatS etait pr~iaement Louis. Oe nom n' etait pas venu daha
L
Digitized by Coogle
146 Relation de Diver8e8 Experiences, J;c.
notre conversation, at rien dans la demande n' indiquait qu'il lilt ques-
tion d' un prenom plutOt que d' un nom de famille.
Je dois mentionner aussi une experience fsite avec mon ami G., et
qui a eu lieu en presence de l'illustre savant anglais, M. W. Crooke&.
M. Crookes ayant t~moign~ Ie desir d' assister aune des experiences que
nous faisions avec l' alphabet cache, je reunis mes amis dans la joum~
chez moi, et nous essayAmes de 1& faire dans les conditions ordinaires.
D' abord l' experience ne reussit pas. Quelqu' un fit alors observer
qu'il fallait fermer les persiennes et operer a la lumiere d' une lampe,
ce qui fut fait. M. Crookes ~tait pres de moi. J e parcoumis l' alphabet.
G. ~tait II. la table, avec A., P., et F. Devant l' alphabet nous
avions mis un grand carton qui Ie eachait presque completement.
L' alphabet n' ~tait oolair6 que par une petite lampe qui permettait II.
peine de voir les lettres, melne en s' approchant de tres pres. Alor&,
apres'diverses phrases insignifianteB, M. W. Crookes fit une question
rnentale. II demandait Ie nom d' un de ses fils. Personne ne pouvait
Be douter de la nature de 1& question.
La reponse, trea nette, fut-
IKNOWONLYTHESLANQ
Je dois remarquer que G. sait a peine assez d' anglais pour ~peler
quelques mots, et que Ie mot de slang lui ~tait completement inconnu.
II est vrai qu' il a pu Ie savoir et l' oublier.
L' experience aumit ~M plua in~reasante encore, si la phrase ainsi
dite par I' alphabet cache, au lieu de a' appliquer apeu pres a toutes les
demandes, eat ~ uniquement applicable II. la question mentale de M.
Crookes. Mais il n' en est pas moins vrai que la reponae a' applique
bien ala question faite.
Pour ce qui conceme les phenomenes phyaiques du apiritisme, j' ai
Ie regret de dire que, malgre bien des tentatives, je n' ai rien obtenu de
dooisif. J' ai assia~ deux foia a des _nces que donnait M. Eglinton,
et j' ai fidelement tmnscrit aur mon registre de notes Ie r~cit de aes
experiences: mais je m' abstiena d' en parler et de conclure quoi que
ce soit; jusqu' II. ce que sa bonne loi soit, comme je l' espere, absolument
prouv~. A I' heure preaente elle ne me pamit pas encore en dehors
de toute contestation. Aussi faut.il regarder comme non avenuea lea
experienCe&, si ~tonnantea qu' elles soient, ou l' absolue bonne foi de
l' operateur n' est pas au-dessus de la discussion.
Restent les experiences fsites dans des conditions de sinceri~ incon-
testable et incontes~. Elles sont peu nombreuses, et assez pen
concluanteB.
D' abord, pour ce qui concerne les coups, ou raps, G., qui nous avait I'
donn~ des resultats si curieux avec l' alphabet cache, ne peut produire
de raps. J'ai eu l'occasion de voir quatre ou cinq foisMadame V.,pcrsonne
intelligente, et d' une san~ d~licate, qui, lorsque elle met les mains Bur J
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiverBe8 Ef£]'biences, tl:c.
une table, dans les conditions de ailence et de recueillement autliaantea,
obtient des coups. J' ai pariaitement entendu ces coups. Noua etions
en pleine lumiere, et je aoia aftr qu'il n' y avait aucune aupercherie.
Maia il ne m' eat pas prouve que cas coupa aoient tout-a-fait differenta
des craquementa que produit dans une table, compoaee d' aia divera, une
pression plua ou moine forte. Si Madame V., en appuyant involon-
tairement atel ou tel moment, fait entendre un craquement, et que ce
craquement ressemble aun coup, ce n' eat pas plus etonnant que lea
mouvementa d' une table aoulevee, mou\'ementa que noua expliquons
maintenant si bien par les mouvementa musculairea inconacienta.
Je ne me diaaimule pas que ootte hypothese est peu satiamiaante,
auaai peu satiafaiaante que quand j' explique les reponaes avec
l' alphabet cache par une perception sensible et inconsciente des mouve-
menta de la personne qui epelle l' alphabet. Maia, quand on n' a pas
de preuvea irrecusables qu' un phenomena ne a' explique pas par les loia
connues de la matiere, il £aut· recourir A cellea-ci plutOt qu' ades
hypotheses qui bouleveraent l' etat actuel de la science. J' auraia bien
voulu reprendre cas experiencea avec Madame V., maia sa sante ne lui
a pas permia de continuer. n y a., comme on Baitsana doute, quand on
s' eat un peu occupe de cas phenomenes spiritiques, tantOt des mediuma
Agage, dont 1& bonne foi e<Jt par cela m~me probIematique, tantOt des
mediums qu' il est impossible de retribuer, des personnes du monde, qui
considerent cem comme une aorte de pasae-tempa ou de jeu, et qui ne Be
reaignent pas A de longuea et fastidieuaea etudea.
Une fois, avec G., nousavons eu Ie fait auivant. Je Ie mentionne,
quoique je ne l' aie observe qu' une seule fois, et qu' il nous ait ete
impossible de Ie reproduire. Le 5 Novembre 1884, apres une aaaez
longue seance nous esaayona de £&ire quelques experiences dans
l' obscurite. Nous etions quatre presents, G., P., 0., et moi. O. est A
demi endormi, et incapable de parler. P. et moi nous demandona a
l'esprit aoi-diaant present s'il peut nous f&ire entendre Ie son du violon,
question bizarre, resultant de diveraes communications anterieures. La
reponae est: "Oui, dans une minute." Cette reponse nous est donnee
par les aoulevementa de la table, suivant un systeme de signes convenus.
Au bout d' une minute environ nous entendons trois ou quatre petits
coups de timbre tres faibles, maia bien neta cependant, et argentina.
0., qui continue Adormir, n'a rien entendu. G., qui est aourd ou du
moins qui a l' oreille tres dura, n' a rien entendu. Maia P. et moi nous
avons tree diatinctement entendu ce Ieger tintement qui semblait partir
de 1& table. Ausai notre impression, que nous exprimons auaaitot
aimultanement, est que G., qui a une montre a repetition, .. tire sa
montra de sa poche pour savoir l' heure.
Cette explication si simple est inadmissible; car G. n' avait pas ce
jour-IlL apporte sa montre arepetition.
L 2
Digitized by Coogle
1418 .Relatioo, de Diverses Experiences, Icc.
Je rapporte Ie fait sans commentaire. Je ne crois pas que ce ph6-
nomllne isola, peu~tre explicable par des raisons tree simples,ait grande
valeur. En fait d' experiences on peut dire ce qu'on dit des ~moig­
nages-.E~ia Untl, e:cpmentia "uUa.
La. derniere observation que j' aie a. rapporter se nifere a. des phe-
nomenes plus inexplicables encore. Au chAteau de S., avec quelques
parents et des amis, noUB avions fait diverses experiences avec 180 table.
Le medium etait Madeleine G., et constamment Ie nom qui revenait
par 180 .table etait Ie nom de mon grand-pere, Charles Renouard, mort
dans ce chAteau, environ huit ana auparavant. Nous avon&, entre
autres, comme reponse, une promesse de l' esprit, qui noUB dit qu' il
noUB apparaitra. De fait nous ne vim88 rien, ni les uns ni les autrea.
Le lendemain matin, Miss MaryX.,institutrice anglaise de l'enfant de
Madame G., prevint Madame G. qu' elle n' 08erait plus aller toute seule
dans Ie corridor. II s' agit d' un grand corridor qui reunit l' une a.
l' autre toutes les pieces du premier etage. En eWet, elle ra.conte qu' eUe
a eu une peur terrible Ie soir precedent, sa frayeur colncidant avec Ie
moment 011 nous faisions nos experiences. Dans Ie corridor elle avait
vu l' ombre ou Ie fantOme de M. Charles Renouard.
D' aprea les affirmations de Miss Mary X., personne fort intelligente
at veridique, elle ignorait que nous euasions fait une experience ce mAme
jour, et que surtout il edt ete question de l' apparition possible de M.
Charles ReIlOuard. Mais il ne me parait pas prouve absolument
qu' elle ignorait cels. Ce n' etait pas 180 premiere fois que noUB faisions
l' experience, et, dans une de nos seances an~rieures, datant de huit
jours a. peu pres, nous avions deja. eu des communications analogues,
soi-disant de M. Charles Renouard.
II me parait que, de toutes ces experiences, resultat d' une longue et
peu~tre inutile patience, on ne peut rien conclure de formel. J e crois
cependant qu' on est autorise a. regretter que les savants n' osent pas
etudier BanS parti pris les faits du spiritisme. Pourquoi cette reserve'
N' est-ce pas indigne d' eu que de fuir 1& lumiere ,
CHAPITRE X.
BXPEBIBNOBS DE LUCIDlTE AVEO DES OARTES.
II aemble que 180 question de 180 lucidite puiase Be juger avec des
cartes de jeu plus facilement que par quelque autre procede. En effet
lea cartes se p~tent sans peine a. des calculs de probabilite d'une
rigueur scientifique irniprochable. Etant donne un jeu de 52 cartes, ai
l' on fait un certain nombre de tira.ges, pourvu que ces tirages 80ient
pratiquea sans que Ie sujet ait connaissance de 180 carte. on trouvera un
Digitized by Coogle
nombra de sue. qui indiquera avec precision iii Ie sujet dit mieux que
Ie hasard, ou comme Ie hasard.
Maia de fait il m' a pam que ce mode d' o~rer ne se pJite pas du
tout &I' emmen de la lucidite. Je ne aauraia dire pour queUe cause.
Peu~tre y .t-il dana l' esprit du sujet la reprMentation &imultan~ de
toutea lea cartes qui sont dans Ie jeu. Peu~re analli eat-on tente de
pratiquer un trop grand nombre d' expmiencea, et lea premieres sont-
ellas lea seulea bonnea. Peu~tre dea conditions inconnuea de nons
modifient-ellea lea donn~ de l' ~rience. Toujoun eat-il qu' en
proeedantavec rigueur, maia non avec pins de rigueur qu' avec lea deeaina
mia dans dea enveloppes, je n' ai obtenu aueun resultat dana Ie sena de
lalucidite ou de la suggestion mentale.
Voici comment je p~ais. La carte ~tait par quelqu' un plaae
dana une enveloppe opaque. Elle etait prise dana huit jeux de cartee de
52 cartes. Par consequent la m@me carte pouvait Be retrouver plusieun
fois de suite dana la m@me ex~rience. Quelquefois e' ~tait moi·m@me
qui avais mis, chez moi, la carte dana l' enveloppe. Mais j'avais lOin
de ne pas la regarder, et j' ignoraia abaolument quelle carte j' avais ainai
enferm~ dana l' enveloppe opaque.
Alors l' enveloppe etait donn~ soit aAlice, soit &Eugenie, soit
ad' autres sujeta. Le reaultat, qui m' ~tai~ donne verbalement, etait
inscrit sur l' enveloppe, et, une fois la carte indiqu~ par Ie sujet,
j' ouvraia l' enveloppe, et je comparais.
J' ai fait ainai 312 experiences. Ellea sont, qU8Dt &la methode,
irriprochables, mais Ie risultat est tout-a.fait d6avorable & mea
previsions; e' est+dire, que je n' ai rien trouve qui confirmAt l' hypothese
de la lueidite. Au contraire, lea ehiffres obtenus prouvent bien que la
lucidite ne s' exerce pas sur lea cartes miaes sous enveloppes et invisiblea
par nos p~ea ordinaires de vision.
0'eat done 1& un reaultat absolument negatif, et fait pour jeter
quelque doute sur lea experiences de dessin. Mais, en pareille matiere,
TIl notre ignorance abaolue des p~ea de lucidite, nous ne devons rien
conclure d' une ~rie, m@me· tree longue, d' experiences n~atives. Le
fait que de nombreuaes exp~riences avec lea cartes nous ont donne un
n!sultat nul, prouve &implement qu' on oohoue avec lea cartes, et De
prouve pas qu'il n' y a pas de Iucidite pour lea dessins, ou pour les
maladies, ou pour d' autres phenomenea.
Quoique j' aie absolument khoue avec lea cartes, il est possible que
d'autres experimentateurs, agissant sur des sujete plus sensibles, aieDt
de meilleurs reaultate. J e ne parle pas de la suggestion mentale, qui,
d' apres lea ex~riences dea divers correspondaDts de la Society for
Psychical Research, semble prouv~ pour lea cartes; maia de la lucidite
portantsur dea cartes ineonnuea du sujet aUBBi bien que de I'o~rateur. Je
me permete de recommander cette ~preuve faite comme je l'indique :
Digitized by Coogle
150 &lation de DiVer8e8 Experiences, &:0.
cartes prises dans un grand nombre de jeux, mises dans des enveloppes
opaques, sa.ns que personne les connaisse, et resultat ecrit avant
qu' on ait vu la carte, sa.ns qu' on puisse revenir sur une experience
faite, et en tenant compte de tous les resultats, sa.ns une saule
exception.
Au point de vue de la proba..biliM, voici comment je l' ai calcultSe.
II y a d' abord une proba.biliM de !; c' est 1a. proba.biliM d' amener une
carte rouge ou une carte noire. Secondement, il y a 1a. proba.biliM
de 1; c' est la probabiliM d' &mener un CCEur, un carrea.u, un pique, ou
un tufte. Troisiemement, 1a. proba.biliM de ~; soit la proba.biliM
d' amener un as, un deux, un trois, et cetera. Quatriemement, 1a. probs-
bilit~ de ~; c' est 1a. proba.biliM d' amener exa.ctement te1le ou telle
carte.
Entin, la proba.biliM d' amener, non pas la carte exa.cte, mais la carte
voisine, celie qui est immMiatement superieure ou inf~rieure, est
~videmment de ~.
II fallait s' attendre a. trouver, pour les e~riences porta.nt sur la
designation totale des cartes, des cbiffres un peu inf~rieurs aux chiffres
probables, car, dans bon nombre d' exp~riences, peut-etre 1 du nombre
total, Eug~nie ou Alice se refusaient a. dire autre chose que la valeur
de 1a. carte, affirmant qu' elles ne voyaient rien, et qu' il etait par
constSquent inutile de leur faire dire plus.
J e donne ici 1a. somme totale des experiences de cartes faites de
cette maniere. J'ai dispo~ lea chiffres par s~ries de 24. C'est-a-dire,
que chaque colonne indique Ie resultat de 24 experiences COD-
seoutives.
EXPERIENCES n'EUGENIE.
lIl:e 2e Be 4e 6e Total.
Nombre probable
ria. lillie. ac!rle IIlde. IIlri.. Pr.le totLlPr. 2& Bz..
- - -
Rouge ou noire, Prob. 1 15 15 II 6 10 57 60 12
Valeur de la carte, Prob.! 9 9 8 2 5 33 30 6
D~ignat. du point, Prob· n 2 2 0 I I 6 9 !J
Deeignat. totale, Prob••"r 2 I 0 0 0 3 !J 0.5
Dwgnat. totale et des
!J cartes voisines, l'rob...\ 2 I 0 0 I 4 7 1.5
Digitized by Coogle
EXPDIBNCBS D'ALICE.
Ie te
.:. Mlh ee ToU.
.erie !M!rie .erie ,!M!rie ~iie
Prob. i 12 12 10 11 12 11 68
Prob. i 7 4 4 6 6 7 33
Prob. -h 2 2 0 0 0 1 6
Prob. if 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
Prob. ,', 0 1 0 1 1 1 4
151
ExPEalENCBS DB LfOln'llfJC,
D'HBLBNA BT D'AUTBBS.
Nbr
i .. JrToU. Nbr. Total Hombre
Pm. ,,- Pm. PD~ Probable.
- - --
72 7 16 22 24 147 1116
36 7 9 16 12 82 78
11 3 2 6 4 16 24
3 1 1 2 1 6 6
8 2 6 7 3 15 18
Si ron ne tient compte que des proba.bilites 11.1 et II.l-et il n'est
guere possible de mire 8outrement, puisque bien BOuvent Eug~nie ou
Alice ne designaient que 180 cou1eur de 180 C80~n voit que, lea cbift'res
obtenus sont tout;..ll..fait ceux que peut donner Ie ha.sa.rd,l et que, si une
I Depuil que ce travail a lit.! 00ri., j'ai refait de nouvellee experiencee, qui m' ont
doaruI des n!sultatll plus aatilfaiaanu, quoique II vrai dire ila ne depaialoent ... encore
_Ie nombre probable. Mee experiences ont et.! faitee avec Alice, Eugeui. et
~tiDe. Sur:rr experienoee Alice m'a donne-
I 11 boDI; 20 mauvais.
! 1 bons; 30 mauvaia.
ts II boas; 32 mauvais.
h 2 boas; 35 mauvais.
h 3 boas; 34 mauvais.
tIar 25 experiences, Eugeuie m'a donne :-
I 11 boas; 8 mauvail.
i 9 boas; 16 mauvais.
ts 2 boas; 23 mauvail.
h 29 maavaia.
It 29 mauvais.
Mail je dois dire qu' Eugenie De me d4signe que rarement Ie point de la carie
dODt ella a iudique la eouleur, duorte que ce obiBre de 29 experienoee ne l'llpond
en rialit.! qu' II une dizaine d' experienoee .. peine. Leontine a mieux 1'11_ pent-
ene. Sur 59 experiences j'ai en-
I ~ boas; 29 mauvais.
I 20 boDS; 39 mauvais.
ts 8 boDS; 51 mauvail.
h 2 bons; 57 mauvail.
h 4boas; 115 mauvail.
Cela fait 121 experiences, leequelles, ajoutM aux 312 experienoee pnlo4dentel, me
donnant un total de 433 ; sur 433 experiencesil y a en en dllfinitive-
AI 211 suocM ; 222 eobeos.
A i 118 suoOOe; 315 eohecs, Ie nambra probable dee suoOOe etant 108.
On vuit que c'eet Ia tout·lI-fait Ie hasard; mail il me paratt vraiaemblable
qu'Alice, par exemple, n'a abeolument pae de Iuoidit.! pour lea cartes. Ansei faudrait-il
lllparer toutes lee experiencetl qu'ellee a faites. On arriverait &lora II un ohift're mail-
leur; c'e&t-lI-dire. pour la probabilit.! II i, celie qui me paratt devoir lurtoUt Atre
recbercbee, 8ur 292 experiences, 18 8UoOOe, &l0l'll que Ie Dambra probable est 63. En
IIIimilant O8la II une lORe de jeu, on verrait qu' &lora Ie jeu, avec une perIOnne ayant
cet aVaDtaRe, ne aerait pae equitable.
Digitized by Coogle
152 .Rela,tion de Diwrses E~bie'M68, cl:c.
inftuenee perturbatrice quelconque a modifie Ie haaard, cette inftuence
ne pent &tre appr8ciee.
CBAPITRB XI.
BXPWBHOBa AVBO DBa ROII8.
J'ai essaye de faire a peu pre. la m6me ex~rience qu'avec des
cartes, en la variant legerement. Pour eel&, au lieu de prendre des
cartes de jen, j' ai pris des prenoms d' homme ou de femme. J' ai
ainsi dresstS une liste de 90 noms maaculins et feminins, puis j' ai prie
quelqu' un de tirer au sort et de mettre un de ces noms tires au sort
daUB une enveloppe opaque, apres l' avoir ecrit bien lisiblement.
Naturellement, apres cha.que tirage, Ie nom eta.it remis dans l' urne,
pour que la probabilite restAt toujours egale a~. Ainsi, j' ignorais
absolument Ie nom que je donnais adeviner.
J e n' ai fait jusqu' apresent qu' un tout petit nombre d' ex~riences,
et elles n' ont pas reussi, comme on va Ie ,"oir par Ie tableau qui suit.
Mais je crois que la methode est bonne, et qu' elle pourra ~tre employee
avec avanta.ge par eeux qui auront ou croiront avoir des sujets plus ou
moins lucides.
ROil aBBL.
Oatherine
Justin
Gustave
Angele
Julie l
Nicola.s
Marie
Sara
Michel
J a.cqueline
Madeleine
Julienne
Claire
Agnes
,. .................
..................
..................
.............. ...
..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
ROil DIT.
Henri
Lucien
Marguerite
Pauline
Juliette
Ursule
Jeanne
Rosa.
Julie
Josephine
Jeannette
Amelie
Eugene
Lucien
~Oll DO 8UJBT.
.................. Alice.
.................. "
..................
"
..................
"
..................
"
..................
"
..................
"
.................. Eugenie.
.................. ..
.................. II
.................. ..
.................. Claire.
.................. ..
.................. Leontine.
Rose .................. Anna .................. "
D n'ya evidemment rien aconclure de ces 15 experiences. II est
eertain quela ressemblance est &SSeZ grande entre Julie etJuliette, Sara
et Rosa, J a.cqueline et Josephine. Ma.is eela ne suffit pas pour constituer
m6me une pre80mption en faveur de 1& lucidit6. Car Ie ha.sa.rd pourrait
IJ'avaia regard4lle nom contenu dana l'enveloppe, et je lui avail dit: .. C'eat un
nom de femme."
Digitized by Coogle
153
donner des aaaembIagea plus curieux encore, m~me quand la probabiliU
.t tree faible, -Irs, comme elle l'est dans cette aSie d'ex~riencea.
Oes exp4Sriencea sont des ex~riencea faites pour etudier non la
auggestion mentale, mais la lucidite. Dans Ie cas de suggestion
mentale, il semble qu' on r8uaaisse mieux. Je laisse de ~te ]es belles
~riencea qu' ont faites a cet egard quelques correepondants de la
Society for Paychical Research, et je ne parle que de mes propres
~Ildes.
J' airacontd qu'il y a bien ]ongtempa, toutra.fait au debut de mes
~riences, j' &vaia demande aune jeune somnambule Ie nom d' un de
mes camaradea d' etudes venu avec moi aI' HOtel Dieu. 11 "a'appewt
Hearn, et la jeune fille me dit sans Be tromper, .. He(1)m." L' ex-
ptlrience, citoo plus haut, dana laquelle Alice, &ana avoir vu ]e nom qui
&it enferme dans l' enve]oppe, me dit, apres que je l' edaae lu et que
je lui eftase dit que c' etait un nom de femme, .. Juliette," alora que ]e
vrai nom etait JulM, peut passer auaai pour de la auggestion mentale.
Dans une experience faite avec Eugenie, j' eCN, L u c i e n, et je
meta Ie papier dans une enveloppe que je lui donne. Elle lit d' abord,
"Marie." Je lui dis que c' eat une erreur; et je lui demande la
premiere lettre. Elle dit qu' elle ne voit pas. La aeconde lettre, dit-
ene, eat u; Ia troiaieme n' eat pas vue ; puis elle dit, i e n. n semble-
rait, d'apres cela, qu' elle ddt conclure a L u c i e n. Nullement, elle lit
E u g i e n i e, aoit Eugenie. On remarquera, je pense, la aimilitude
du get du c.
CSAPITRB XII.
BXPERIBNCBS DB VOYAGB.
J' ai fait avec Alice une aerie d' experiencea d' un caractere apecial.
na' agiaaait de decrire un edifice ou une maison quelconque, inconnue
de moi, maia connue de la personne qui etait avec moi. C'etait moi
qui interrogeaia Alice, de sorte que mea queations ne pouvaient la
mettre sur 180 voie, puiaque j' ignorais quellea etaient lea reponses qui
devaient etre donnees. Nous appellerona wyagtJ8, cea deacriptiona
faites ainsi Ii diatance.
J' ai eu alora Ii diveraes reprisea des reaultata vraiment tres re.
ma.rquables. J e ne veux pourtant pas lea rapporter ici en detail; car
il ne faut pas "buser de 180 patience du lecteur, et cea details, ai
interessanta qu'ils aoient, ne me paraiasent guere propre Ii faire naitre
la conviction. On peut toujours en eft'et supposer qu'il y a
comme des indicationa inconscientes donnees par la peraonne pr6sente, si
8ilencieuse qu' elle soit. D' autre part iJ est facile de dire que la diver-
Bite des jardins, maiaons, bAtiments, edifices, salons, et cetera, n' est
pas suffisante, pour qu' une description quelconque qui est necessaire-
Digitized by Coogle
154 .Relation de DiVer8eB ExpbienceB, tl:c.
ment vague, et pleine d' erreurs, ne B' applique pas a presque tous las
edifices, jardinB, bAtiments, et salons connus.
AUBBi me contenterai-je d' indiquer quelques faits choisis parmi
ceux qui sont, non les plus frappants, peu~tre, mais les plus aptes a
litre brievement exposes.
Experience 1., 8 Ao!u 1886.-Cette experience a ete faite avec mon
ami M. Manuel Tolosa Latour, qu' Alice ne connait pas. II B' agit
d' aller dans la maison d' un medecin de BeB amiB, Ie Docteur E. J e crois
deviner, d' apres les paroles de M. Tolosa, dites avant que nous ayions
ete en presence d' Alice, qu' il B' agit d' une maison d' alienes. Mais je
n' en BUis par sur; d' ailleurs je n' en laisse rien voir aAlice, et M. Tolosa
ne lui dit pas une parole.
.(\.lice voit "des hommes qui vont et viennent avec une casquette Bur
I" t€!te (detail qui est absolument exact et que j'ignorais entierement).
.Lea femmes sont dans un salon. Elles sont treB d~les et doivent
li~e en flite; tellement elles remuent ; il Yen a qui ont des eventails.
II y en a une qui est au piano. Elles ont des costumes avec des
manches trop larges." (Tous ces details sont tres exacts, et ils etaient
apeu pres inconnus de moi. J amais Alice n' a ete dans un asile
d' alienes, et elle ne sait pas ce qui B' y passe.)
Ezpmence II.-Faite par Alice. Madame A. est avec moi. II
B' agit de decrire 180 maison que Madame A. habite en province, et que
ni moi ni Alice ne connaissent. Madame A. ne dit rien, et c' est moi
qui interroge Alice. Je ne reviendrai plus d' ailleurs Bur cette maniere
de procMer, puisque, dans aucune des experiences que je vais
mentionner, je ne laissais interroger par la personne connaissant 180
reponse qu' il fallait donner.
Alice dit: "Un jardin avec une grille. Devant 180 maison, pas
d' arbres; mais des massifs. Par devant il y a des marches, un perron
avec un escalier en pierre et quatre marches. Dans Ie salon une
table; Bur la cheminee une pendule, et, de chaque cote de la pendule, en
haut, adroite et a ga.uche, deux motifB faisant saillie au-dessus du
cadran: ce sont deux anges." Tous ceB details sont parfa.itement
exacts, sauf pour un point Bpecial. La cadran de la pendule porte en
haut, adroite et agauche, deux chevres qui Bemblent grimper sur Ie
cadran. .
Experience I {f.-II B' agit de la maison de M. C. que M. Ph.
Renouard, present al' experience, connait treB bien, mais que ni moi ni
Alice ne connaissons.
Bien entendu, pour cette experience, comme pour les precedentes et
celles qui suivroot, je ne donne pas. les details plUB ou mow banau
que nous a indiques Alice. Je ne mentionne que les particularites
interessantes qu' elle nous a precisees, et qui soot exactes. J e lai.sse
aussi de cote les erreurs qu' elle a commises.
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de Diverses Experiences, tl:c. 15&
II L' entr&! de la maison est sur la cour dans la cuisine. Il n' y a
pas de sortie sur la rue. Dans Ie jardin, au bout de Ia terrasse, il y a
un mur avec des banes pour s' asseoir et une balanqoire." Cas details
sont exacts; mais M. Renouard ignorait qu' on avait mis rtScemment une
balan<;oire au bout du jardin. " Au milieu de Ia cheminee il y a une
pendule a. colonnes, grande, carree, avec un dOme ou il y a des sculp-
tures. Lea colonnes laterales font saillie, Ie sommet est un dOme avec
ornements. Il y a quatre colonnea."
FIG. 91.
Pendule dessinee par moi d' apree lea paroles d' Alice.
Q)
u FIG. 92.
...
Pendule reelle de Ia maison de M. C.
Digitized by Coogle
156 .Relation de DiVer8e8 Er£Pbiences, tfc.
J e donne ici 1& figure de la pendule (Figure 91). telle que je l' ai
dessinee d' apres les indications d' Alice, et telle qu' elle est reellement.
(Figure 92.)
" Dans Ie salon il y a au milieu une grande table avec des livrea ~
a. plat, de grands livrea avec de belles reliurea. Lea fauteuils sont en
etotre rouge. La. porte de droite du salon conduit dans un petit corri-
dor qui mene a 1& cuisine. Dans 1& salle-a..manger il y a un dressoir
qui est constitue en, bas par une armoire a. deux battants Be fermant a
clef. n n' ya pas de tableaux, mais des assiettes suspendues au mur
et rangees de chaque ~te du buffet. 11 y a deux rangees de cea
assiettes."
Tous ces details sont tres exacts, et on ne pourrait en donner une
meilleure description, m6rne si l' on avait sous les yeux les pieces et les
objets en question,
E~6 IY.-Faite par Alice. Dans une premiere experienceje
lui avais demande de me decrire 1& maison de mon ami M. Ferrari, ala
campagne, en province, maison que je ne connais pas. Le risultat avait
ete a. peu pres nul. Une seconde fois, M. Ferrari etant present, elle
decrit beaucoup mieux cette maison, quoique naturellement M. Ferrari
s' abstienne de toute parole impliquant assentiment ou dissentiment.
" A coup sftr, ce n' est pas un pays plat; la maison est plu~t dans
un fond. Dans Ie jardin il y a une allee qui monte et qui conduit a un
plateau tres eleve. Ce plateau aboutit a. une grande avenue avec de
grands arbres, a. feuillage epais. Dans cette all6e il Ya un petit mur
1&teral, pas tres haut, sur lequel se trouvent des pots de lleurs. La
maison est recouverte par des ardoiBes tres petites, tres fines, qui ne sont
pas noirea."
E~ V.-Faite par Alice. Dans une premiere experience je
lui avais demande de me decrire la maison de mon ami M. Rondeau.
Le resultat avait ete a. peu pres nul. Une seconde fois, M. Rondeau
etant present, elle fait une description dont plusleurs details sont
fort exacts. M. Rondeau s' abstient de toute indication. "Sur
la cheminee il y " quelque chose, qui est large en bas et pointu en
haut. n y a des draperies. Au-dessous est un cadran. La. partie
superieure de 1& statue est une epaule. Le personnage n'est pas tout-
a..fait de face. n est appuye sur Ie bras, et regarde Ie cadran. n y a
de chaque ~te de la pendule deux candelabras, dont la tige est etroite.
et qui supportent des bougies. Dans Ie salon il y a encore un grand
tableau, de 80 centimetres de long, sur 50 centimetres de large, qui
represente un paysage. Adroite un amas de maisons, une ville un peu
en colline, comme un amphitheAtre. Par devant, une route, des champs
au premier plan. A gauche une etendue de plaine avec la mer bleue.
Entre la ville et la mer, formant un arriere-plan plus eloigne, quelque
chose de pointu, comme une tourelle ou Ie toit d' une eglise."
Digitized by Coogle
RelatiA:m de DiV61'868 Ezpbiences, &c. 157
Telles sont textuellement lea parolea d' Alice. Or la pendule repre·
aente P~n~lope, qui a en eft'et l' ~paule faisant Baillie, et dont la Ute eat
tourn~ vera Ie cadran. Quant au tableau, c' eat un tree grand tableau,
de Canaletti, qui repnSsente une vue de Venise. Au premier plan Ie
canal. Au second plan lea maisona, et surtout l' egliae St. Georges
Majeur, dont Be d~he la haute coupole pointue.
Alice, continuant, dit encore: "Dans Ie jardin il y a un jet d'eau.
Sur lea borda du jet d' eau une petite bordure en pierre avec
des deurs. Tout autour du bassin il Ya une grille. Au fond du
jardin une table et des chaises." Tous ces d~tails sont bien exacts.
J e ne veux pas pousser plus loin Ie recit de ces ex~riences, qui ont
,titS fort longues et laborieuses. Ellea ont abouti en HOmme a un assez
faible resultat, non parae que les reponaes etaient mauvaises, car dans
quelques cas ellea ~taient excellentea, rom parae que la m~thode ne
paratt pas devoir conduire a une conclusion tant soit peu certaine. Que
l' on essaye d' appliquer a telle ou telle reponse Ie calcul dea probabilit.es,
at on verra que c' eat absolument impossible. 11 eat peu probable
asstmSment qu' en decrivant au hasard une pendule quelconque,;e lui
donne un dOme sculpte, et des colonnea laterales depassaDt le~rement
Ie dOme, alora qu' en rialite la pendule qu'on doit decrire a precise-
ment cette forme. Mais je ne puis chift'rer la part de vraisemblance
qu' a cette reponse. Cela eat d' autant plus difficile a chift'rer qu' il
taut tenir compte de la personne qui eat pnSsente, qui 8coute, et qui
eat au courant des reponaes afaire. Pourra-t-on jamais affirmer qu'elle
ne Be 1aisse pas aller a dea signes involontairea, si faiblea qu' ils soient,
d' assentiment ou de dapprobation ,
CHAPITRB XIII.
0B8BRVATION8 DIVB88RS DB LUCIDIri OU DB 8UGGBSTION MBHALB.
Pour terminer, il me reate a mentionner quelques faits epars, impos-
Biblea a classer dans tel ou tel chapitre, et qui me paraissent relever,
tantat de la suggestion mentale, tantat de la lucidite.
Ob~ion I.-Leonie B., qui a donne a M. Gibert et a M. Janet
de si beaux cas de transmission mentale at de lucidite, ne m'en a donne
que deux exemplea, quoique j' aie fait avec elle de nombreuaes
tentativea (voir l' Appendice).
Etant au Havre et l'interrogeant, je lui demande si elle peut aller
a Paris voir mea enfant&. Elle dit que oui, et elle s' imagine lea voir.
Elle entend, dit-elle, qu' on appelle, "Amelie, Amelie." Aucun de mea
enfants ne s' appelle Amelie; mais ma niece, qui Be trouvait alora avec
eux, a la campagne, s' appelle Amelie. n eat vrai qu' Amelie est aussi
Ie prenom de ma femme, et que Leonie pouvait Bavoir ce prenom.
Digitized by Coogle
158 .Relation de Di'Ver8e8 Experiences, tl:c.
Leonie dit ensuite, "Oh! oh! voila 1& petite fille qui se coupe avec
un couteau. Oh! oh! ne te fais pas de chagrin, ma petite; ce ne
sera rien."
0' etait un samedi, a 4 heures du soir. J e te16graphie a Paris, non
pour &tre r&88ure, mais pour savoir a quoi m'en tenir sur Ie succes de
cette vue a distance. La reponse est que ma fille ne s' est pas coupee ;
mais, trois jours aprea, rentre a Paris, j' apprends que ce m~me samedi
mon fils, Jacques, Age a10rs de trois ans, s' est fait une assez forte
coupure au doigt, Ie matin a 7 heures, en jouant dans son lit avec un
morceau de verra ebreche.
EzpbUnce 11.- 0' est plu~t une observation qu'une experience;
car je ne cherchais rien de sembiable, et en general c' est ainsi que l' on
obtient 1es meilleurs r6sultats. Moins on fait d' experimentation
proprement dite, plus on a de chances d' avoir quelque succes.
Je vais chez M. Ferrari pour voir Leonie, et j' amene avec moi
mon ami Rondeau. J e fais alors diverses questions a Leonie, qui me
repond par des paroles insignifiantes. Soudain Leonie me dit,
"Pourquoi avez-vous ainsi passe devant M. Rondeau t vous avez au bas
de l' escalier passe devant lui. Ce n' est pas poli."
Or il y a Ill. un fait tres exact. Au bas de l' escalier, comme Ie jour
tombait, et que l' escalier est fort sombre, j'avais dit a M. Rondeau,
qui ne connaissait pas l' escalier, "Attendez, marchez derriere moi. Moi,
je passe devant."
Ezpbitmce III.-Je vais chez Alice avec mon ami T. J' avais pre-
venu T. que je ne ferais pas les experiences amusantes qu' on fait
volontiers,dans les salons,sur l' hypnotisme. "Oe1&," lui dis-je," ne m' inte-
resse plus d' etudier les faits, bien connus aujourd' hui, de 1'hypnotisme
ordinaire i nous ferons des experiences serieusea et ennuyeuses." J e com-
mence par donner a Alice des cartes enfermees dans une enveloppe
opaque. .A peine ai-je remis ces cartes a Alice qu' elle les repousse
bruaquement, ce qui est contraire a toutes sea habitudes, et qu' elle me
dit : "Oe n' est pas pour les cartes qu' il est venu. " (Elle n' avait
jamais vu T., et ne connaissait rien de lui, ni son Age, ni sa profession,
ni son etat social.) II II est venu parce qu'il est occup6 d' autre chose.
Ce n'est pas a Paris ce qui I' occupe." Alors elle donne,avec une grande
precision, des details sur l'etat d' esprit de T., qui etait alors-ce que
.i'ignorais absolument et ce que personne assurement, m~me parmi &e8
intimes ami&, ne savait-trea amoureux d'une jeune personne demeu-
rant loin de Paris et qu'il desirait epouser.
J e n' ai pas a raconter ici dans sea details cette curieuse observa-
tion, car ce sont des faits qui n' ont guere de pouvoir de convictioD que
sur une seule personne. T., qui n' avait jamais cru a rien d' analogue,
a ete tout-a-fait persuade de 1& realite de 1& transmission mentale, ou de
la 1ucidite. Peu~tre cette impression s' eft"acera-t-elle quelque jour de
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de DiVe'r8es Experiences, &c. 159
son esprit, mais alors i1 etait pleinement convaincu ; et cependant c' est
un homme de science qui est tres froid et refIechi.
Le defaut de cette etonnante observation, c' est que T. ne sa.vait
pas contenir son enthousiasme, et qu' il poussait, malgre lui et malgre
moi, de petites exclamations qui mettaient Alice sur la voie des reponses
afaire; quand i1 se taisait, son silence prouvait II. Alice qu' elle etait
sur une mauvaise piste, et elle I' abandonnait aussit6t. En depit de
cette defectuosite, la perspicacite, si vive qu' on la suppose, aurait
quelque peine a. expliquer la precision des reponses d' Alice.
Expbience IV., 7 Ao'l2t 1887.--J'arrive chez Alice a. 10 heures
du matin. Elle me dit: II J e suis tres triste; i1 va se passer quelque
chose de grave. II y aura beaucoup de chagrin chez vous. J e vois
qu' on pleure."
Or precisement, daus la nuit du 6 au 7, une personne de ma fa.milIe
a ete prise subitement d' une attaque tres douloureuse de colique
nephretique. Tout Ie monde a ete fort inquiet. J' ai dl1 passer la
nuit acOte de lui, et cette maladie, a. partir de ce jour, n' a fait
qu' empirer.
Je suis absolument sur que rien dans mes gestes ou mes paroles n' a
pu amener Alice a.parler ainsi; d' autant plus qu' en l' interrogeant je
ne pensais pas, consciemment au moins, a. la maladie de M. A.
ObBervation V.-Ni Eugenie, ni Alice ne se connaissent-j' en suis
absolument certain-et pourtant i1 y a eu parfois de curieuses coinci-
dences dans leurs paroles.
Le 17 Novembre 1887,Alice me dit: "Un de vos enfants sera malade;
ce n' est ni demain ni apres demain, mais d'ici a. huit jours II. peu pres,
en tous cas avant 15 jours. Ce sera Ie plus petit de vos enfants; Je
vois une douleur al' lpaule droite et au cou."
La 20 Novembre, je vais voir a 5 heu~s du soir Eugenie, qui est
hien portante; mais Madame G., la mere d' Eugenie, est au lit. Elle
a un torticolis, et une douleur rhumatismale tres vive a. l' lpaule Moite
et GU cau, qui la force a garder Ie lit et qui lui a fait mettre un
vemcatoire.
A peme alors ai-je endormi Eugenie qu' elle me dit, "Vous aurez
un de vos enfants malade d' ici a. buit jours a. peu pres. Ce sera Ie plus
petit. n aura. comme Ie croup; mais pas Ie croup; une bronchite et
de la diarrhee."
J e dois dire que les previsions d' Alice et d' Eugenie ne se sont pas
verifiees, et que, pendant les trois mois qui ont suivi, aucun de mes
enfants n' a ete malade. Mais ce qu'i1 y a d'interessant, c'est moins
ce pressentiment errone que la coincidence de ces deux pressentiments
semblables.
Ce m@me jour Eugenie, pendant que je l' endors, tAte mon pouce
gauche ou il y a une toute petite cicatrice ; puis, des qu' elle est endormie,
160 .Relation de Diverse8 Experiences, &c.
elle me dit: "Vous avez mal au pouce. Vous vous ~tes fait ceIa avec
une aiguille, ou plutOt un couteau, en vouIant couper quelque chose."
Or cette cicatrice minime date de sept ans, et, depuis trois ans que
je connais Eugenie, elle ne m' en avait jamais parle. Je me suis en efl"et
coupe maladroitement avec un couteau, durant un voyage que j' avais
fait dans Ie Sahara Algerien, en coupant une tablette de chocolat. I1s' est
trouve que Ie matin m~me j' en avais parle, et que j' avais raconte cette
histoire insignifiante, dont je ne me soucie pas une fois par an, a un de
mes amis qui revenait de Syrie, et qui avait ete fortement mordu au
pouce par un cheval. 11 est evident qu' en endormant Eugenie je ne
pensais a rien moins qu'a cette conversation insignifiante. Pourquoi
m'a-t-elle dit que j' avais mal au pouce 1 Est.ce parae que j' en avaia
parle quelque heures auparavant 1
Bien souvent Eugenie m' a indique ainu des faits curieux se
rapportant a ce que j' avais dit ou entendu; mais je n' en ai pas tenu
compte, et je ne les rapporte pas ici; car elle a pu connaitre tel ou tel
de ces faits par des personnes qui les savaient. La. preuve formelle
qu' elle les a devines par lucidite et non appris de'telle ou telle personne,
. ne peut pas ~tre donnee; par consequent je n' en parle pas. Mais,
dans l' espece, il lui etait impossible de savoir que j' avais Ie matin
parle des blessures au pouce faites en Syrie ou dans Ie Sahara.
Une autre fois il y a au encore entre Alice et Eugenie une assez
notable co'incidence de sentiments. Par suite d' une sorte de suscepti-
bilite, Eugenie, froissee d' une parole que je lui avais dite, ne veut
plus faire avec moi d' experiences portant sur 1e diagnostic des
maladies. Elle consent a faire des experiences sur les cartes, sur les
dessins, et sur toute autre chose, mais sur lea maladies, jamais. De
fait, elle est assez perseverante dans son opinion, et elle m' a tenu
parole. Quelques jours apres je vois Alice, et, apres l' avoir endormie,
je lui exprime l' espoir qu' elle verra mieux que les autres sujets. A
ce propos je lui parle d' Eugenie. Alors Alice me dit: "Elle ne vous
dira plus rien sur les maladies." Je lui demande pourquoi. Elle dit
dolors, "CO est qu' elle ne veut plus. C' est une resolution qu' elle
a prise."
Je dois ajouter-car je ne veux pas dissimuler un seul de mes
doutes-que je ne suis pas absolument silr que dans une .reance
precedente je ne lui avais pas raconte cette resolution d' Eu~nie. Je
ne Ie crois pas; mais je n' en ai pas la certitude absolue.
Observations VI et VII.-Helena m' a donne a deux reprises quel-
ques faits de transmission mentale ou de lucidit6. On a vu plus haut
que je n' ai presque rien obtenu avec elle pour les cartes, les dessins, et
Ie sommeil a distance, tandis que, pour les maladies, deux ou trois fois
elle a ete vraiment tres remarquable.
Un soir je lui demande ce que j' a.i fait dans la journee. Elle me
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DivtJ'1'8es Experiences, Jcc. 161
dit: "Vous avez magnetise une vieille dame," ce qui &it vrai, et ce
qu' elle ne pouvait.pas savoir.
L' observation suivante est plus curieuse. Dans la journee j' avais
fait une experience qui n' est &S8urement pas habituelle. Je faisais des
e~riences de physiologie sur un individu dont j'etudiais la respira-
tion au point de vue de la composition chimique des gaz expires, et ce
jour l&-je l' avais mis dans un bain tres chaud, pour voir l' influence des
ba.ins chauda sur les khanges respiratoires. AlOl"B, Sans que rien dans
mes paroles puisse faire sou~nner ce que j' avais fait, Helena me dit:
"Vous avez ete dans votre laboratoire, et vous avez echaude un
membre !" Elle ne peut en dire plus, et je ne veux pas l'interroger
davantage, de peur de lui f&ire dire ce que je sais, par la forme de mes
demandes. n y a 1&&III!Iurement plus qu' une ooincidence: car 9' a eU
la seule fois que j' aie fait prendre un bain chaud & mon patient. Et
c'est la seule fois, comme bien on peut croire, qu' Helena m' ait parM de
membres khaudes.
Obl6'l"V<ltion VIII.-Faite par Alice Ie lundi 30ctobre 1886. Un
de mes amis, M.P., demande &Alice qui est chez lui dans sa maison d.
campagne. Elle pretend voir une jeune fille de 14 ans, qui n' est pas
dana la maison, mais dans Ie jardin, aupres d' une table: &~te d' elle
une autre personne un peu plus agee, qui est en visite. M.P. me dit
qu' Alice se trompe evidemment: car sa IDle, Agee en effet de 15 ans,
se tient &cette heure toujours dans la maison, non au jardin, et qu' elle
ne r890it jamais de visite en l' absence de sea parents. Cependant, en
rentrant chez lui, il apprend, non sans etonnement, qu' en effet, a.
l' heure ou nous interrogions Alice, sa fille avait r69U une visite, et
qu' elle avait ete dans Ie jardin pour recevoir cette personne.
Ob86rtHJtion IX., 18 Decemiwe 1887.-Faite par Eugenie. Je lui
demande ce que j' ai dans me. poche. Elle me dit alors-et je cite sea
paroles textuellement-" 0' est un objet rond, plutA')t ovale, metallique,
brillant, comme du metal argente. n y a quelque chose de pointu, un
petit bee comme une petite pince. Ce n' est cependant pas une pince,
avec deux comes qui ont l' air de serrer." Cette description est tres
exa.cte. J' avais dans ma poche, pour la premiere fois de ma vie, un
podometre, c' est-il.-dire, un objet rond, metallique, nickele, qui porte en
Mut une petite agrafe recourbee en forme de pince, de maniere &
pouvoir par ce bee ~re accrochee &la ceinture.
Ob8~ X., 10 Dic6mbre.-Faite par Alice. Elle me parle de
quelqu' un qui sera malade avant peu et gravement malade (et elle
ajoute que cala me donners. beaucoup d' ennuis). liCe n' est ni un de
mes enfants, ni un de mes proches ou de mes parents, ni un de mes
amis intimes. 0'est un homme, c' est-a-dire, une grande personn,e, ni
une femme, ni un enfant."-Elle ne peut pas preciser davantage.-" n
aura des frissons, une fievre assez forte avec des tremblements, des
If
Digitized by Coogle
162 Relation de Di'IJtrrS68 Experiences, tl:c.
etouffements, des fremissements de fievre, comme des coliques dans Ie
ventre. La. fievre se doolarera sans grandes souft'rances. 11 y aura un
aba.ttement, une l&SSitude extnlmes; la tilte sera prise."
Telles sont les paroles quem' a dites Alice Ie 10 Decemhre. Le 8Oir,
en rentrant chez moi, j' inscris cela sur mon cahier d' experiences, et je
n' en prends pas 8Ouci; car, outre que je ne crois gueres a. ces pres-
sentiments, s' il n' y a, me dis-je, ni dans ma famille, ni parmi mes
amis, quelqu' un de malade, cela m'inquiete moina. Cependant
j' inscris les paroles d' Alice dans mes notes, fideIe a. mon habitude de
tout noter, meme ce qui ne paratt pas d' abord avoir quelque interet, et
ce que je viens de rapporter est la copie textuelle-textuelk
(sauf Ie mot" beaucoup d' ennuis" qu' elle a dit, et queje n' avais pas
~rit dans mes notes, mAis que je me rappelle parfaitement).
Huit jours aprea, vers Ie 18 Decembre, mon collegue, M. Y.,
qu' Alice ne connait absolument pas, est pris de fievre assez forte, de
frissons, et de coliques nephretiques, dues a. un abces des reins. La.
maladie fait de rapides progreso Lea douleurs sont nulles; car tres
rapidement l' infection urineuse sument, et Ie coma, si bien que
Ie 26 Dooembre M. Y. meurt.
J e n' ai pas a. entrer ici dans Ie detail des evenements qui ont suivi
la mort de M. Y., mort tout-a...fait impossible a. prevoir pour n'importe
qui. 11 me suffira de dire que, pendant un mois, j' ai eu de trea graves
soucis, dus a. 1& mort prematuree de mon regrette collegue. Ma
position comme directeur de la RerJtUJ Scientifique a ete sur Ie point
d' etre compromise.
J' avail, je dois Ie dire, totalement oublie Ie pressentiment d' Alice,
quand celle-ci, apprenant par les joumaux la mort de M. Y., et sachant
meme par les joumaux les difficultes qui suivaient sa mort, me rappela
qu' elle avait prevu quelque chose d' analogue.
Assurement je ne pretends rien en conclure. Ce n' est pas sur un
fait, si bien observe qu' il soit--et celui Ia. me parait irreprochable au
point de vue de I' exactitude de l' observation-qu' on peut edifier quoi
que ce soit; car Ie hasard est fecond, lui aussi, en surprises: mais enfin
il est bon de Ie rapporter et de Ie constater.
Ob,ervatwns XII. et XIII.-Relativementaux reyes etaux pressen-
timents, je raconterai les deux faits suivants.
Au commencement du mois d' Aoilt 1878, mon grand-pere, M.
Charles Renouard, Age de 84 ans, est Iegerement souft'rant; mais, comme
sa sante etait excellente, cette petite indisposition ne l' empeche pas
de rester leve, d' aller, et de marcher comme d' habitude. n
demeurait alors a. la campagne, au chateau de S. Le dimanche, 11
Aoilt, desireux de Ie voir, je vais au chateau de S., et je trouve mon
grand-pere fort bien portant. 11 Mt convenu que ma femme et moi,
nous irons la semaine suivante, Ie samedi 17 Aoilt, a. S., pour passer
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation de Diverses Experiences, cl:c. 163
quelques jours avec lui. Nous etions alors a la campagne aux environs
de Paris.
Le samedi matin, 17 Aoflt, a 7 heures du matin, comme j' etais deja
leve, et que j' acbevais de m' habiller, ma femme se reveille en pleurant,
et me dit: "C' est aft'reux, je viens de voir ton grand-pere tres, tres
malade. II etait dans son lit, et ta mere etait debout a C(}te de lui."
J e ne tiens pas compte do ce ~ve j je rassure ma femme tres facile-
ment, et nous partons pour Paris en voiture. J e me rappelle tres bien
que nous avons ete ext~mement ps pendant Ie voyage. En arrivant i.
Paris, noUB trouvons un teIegramme nous annon~nt que, dans cette
nait du 16 au 17 Aoflt, mon grand-pere etait mort subitement, en
quelques minutes, d' une lesion du creur, vers 3 heures du matin.
Je dois ajouter que nous ne savions pas que ma mere etait alors au
chAteau de S. ; c' est presque par hasard qu' elle y avait ete ce jour 1&.
n ne me parait pas que 180 valeur de ce reve, si analogud a ceux qui
sont rapportes par MM. Podmore, Gurney et Myers, soit diminuee par
Ie fait de 180 maladie Iegere de mon grand-pere aux premiers jours d'Aoftt.
n est certain que je Ie considerais comme tout-a-fait bien portant, et
que ni moi ni ma femme nous n' etions tant. soit peu inquiets.
Entin, je dois dire que, malgre bien des malheurs, prevus ou imprevus,
qui nous ont frappe, jamais je n' ai eu de pressentiment analogue, et
jamais ma femme n' a eu quoi que co soit qui ressemblAt, meme de loin, a
ce pressentiment si formel du 17 Aoflt 1878.
Pour Ie second fait, il s' agit d' un de ces reyes que les auteurs des
PlwntaamB pourraient ranger dans leurs CoUeceive Cases. Ce serait
un exemple exceUent, si 180 telepathie eut ete plus nettement
formul&!.
Parmi mes &mis, je n' en ai pas qui soient plus etroitement lies avec
moi que Henri Ferrari et Jules Hericourt. lIs sont a peu pres dans
toutes mes joies et toutes mes peines. Or, dans 180 nuit du 14 au 15
Novembre, 1887, 11.3 beures du matin, mon laboratoire de physiologie,
situe rne Vauquelin, est detruit par un incendie, qui, partant d' une
etuve, consume deux salles avant que les secours aient eu Ie temps
d' arriver.
Dans cette meme nuit M. Hericourt, qui ne reve jamais d' habitude,
voit de grandesjlammes. n ne sait pas s'il etait a demi eveilIe ou
tout-&-fait endormi. Malgre 180 nettete de son rev{', il n' en parle
cependant a personne.
De son c6te, dans 180 meme nuit, et vers 180 meme heure, M. Ferrari,
qui ne reve presque jamais, reve qu' on l' appeUe dans 180 chambre voisine,
qu'il se leve, qu'il va voir, et qu'il aper~oit dans sa cheminee un grand
feu 6cmtant qui jetait une vive lueur dans touto 180 piece. L' impression
a eta assez netto pour qu' ill' ait attribuee au souvenir d' un feu de gaz j
car il avait, 180 veille, cause assez longuement avec moi devant une
II 2
Digitized by Coogle
164 Relation de Diver8es Experiences, &:c.
cheminee agaz. Quoique l' impression de ce ~ve ait ete assez forte, il
n' en a parle apersonne avant de savoir l' incendie.
Oe n' est d'ailleurs pas ames deux amis que se borne cette·telepathie.
L' incendie a eu lieu dans III. nuit qui precedait un banquet que m~
amis devaient m'offrir Ie 15 Novembre. Mon ami et confrere
M. Gibert, du Havre, devait, y assister. A ce moment, Leonie
etait au Havre. D' habitude elle etait endormie, tantOt par M. Janet,
tantOt, mais plus rarement, par M. Gibert. Le 15 Novembre, a.
5 heures du soir, elle est endormie par M. Janet. Elle fait alors ce
qu' elle appelle un voyage, c' e st-&-dire qu' elle va a Paris, en imagina.-
tion, pour me voir et voir M. Gibert. Puis elle tombe da.ns un de cea
etats de lethargie incomplete qui lui surviennent si frequemment. Tout
d' un coup elle se reveille, presque en criant, et dit tres emue: "Qa
bnile; <j8o brtile!" M. Janet essaye de III. rassurer en lui disant: "Ce
n' est rien." Alors elle se rendort de nouveau; mais de nouveau elle Be
~veille, en disant, "Mais, M. Janet, je vous assure que c;a. bnile."
M. Janet, malbeureusement, crovant a une illusion, dissipe sea craintes,
et III. calme.
Elle n' a pas alors precise autrement. Oe n' est que Ie lendemain,
quand elle a su par M. Janet que mon laboratoire avait bniIe, qu' elle
lui a dit, "Mais pourquoi m' avez-vous a~tee ~ J'avais bien vu que
c' etait Ie laboratoire de M. Richet qui bnilait." 1
Or il est certain que, Ie 15 Novembre, a5 heures du soir, au Havre,
personne ne pouvait savoir que mon laboratoire avait bnile. II n' y a
que les journaux du soir de Paris qui en aient parle a5 heures.
Je rapporte ces trois hallucinations collectives, malheureusement
tres vagues, sans conclure. II me parait pourtant que ni Ie hasard ni
d' autres causes qu' une singuliere lucidite, commune a trois personnes,
ne peuvent les avoir amenees.
Quant amoi, qui etais Ie plus directement interesse dans cet incendie,
je dois dire que je n~ ai eu absolument aucun avertissement, et que je
dormais d' un profond et paisible sommeil quand on est venu, Ie
matin a7 heures et demie, m' annoncer cette terrible nouvelle.
Observation XIV.-Le 28 FevrieT, ayant endormi Alice vers midi, je
III. laisse en:lormie tout III. journee 2 et je retourne chez elle vers 6
heures du soir avec mon ami, M. Hericourt. A peine sommes-nons
arrives qu' elle se met a I.Des genoux, pleurant, se debattant, me
suppliant de veiller sur moi-m~me, et m'assurant que 1'0n voulait Be
ven/{er de moi, que chez moi il y avait des personnes interessees
a me faire du mal et resolues a rna perte. Son agitation etait
vraiment effra.yante, et jamais je ne I'avais vu dans un pareil etat.
1 Noter que presque jamaia Leonie n' a en de semblables hallucinations.
I n m' est arrive 80uvent de Ia weBerainsi endormie pendant plusieurs heures de
suite. Elle restealOrB etendue sur son lit, at tenement immobile que, pendant cescinq
Digitized by Coogle
.Relation <k Dive1'8e8 Expbiencu, J;c. 165
Elle me prie de la reveiller pour faire cesser son inquietude et sea
souft'rances. De fait, eveilIee, elle ne se doute de rien et ella est gaie
et cal:ne comme d' habitude. Quoique n' attachant pas grande valeur
.&sea pressentimenta,je ne laissais pas,en rentrant chez moi, que d'6tre un
peu inquiet amon tour, ne devinant pas ce qui signiJiait cette hostilite
dont elle me menaqait. D'ahord je ne trouvai rien d'anorma~ mais Ie soir,
travaillant tout seul dans ma bibliotMque, j' avisai tout-a.coup un
papier que je n' avais pas vu d' ahord, et qui etait en vedette sur ma
table, place sous mon encrier, de maniere a. ce qu' il ne put
pas echapper a mes regards. C' etait un papier tres im-
portant, et qui ne devait titre absolument COnnu de
personna. Je ne sais comment il se trouvait 18.. C 'etait assure-
ment un de mes gens qui I 'a"ait derobe ou trouve, et place 18.
pour me montrer qu'il 1'avait lu. Je me lluis hAte de Ie faire
disparaitre, etant, d 'un cote fort ennuye de cette indiscretion assez
grave; d 'un autre cOte, IIoU point de vue de 1'observation, satisfait
d'avoir constate une fois de plus la lucidite d'Alice.
Ces diverses observations, dont quelques unes sont peu importantes,
quelques autres,au oontraire,assez remarquables, je ~rois, auraient pu 6tre
quatre acinq fois plus nombreuses, Hi j' avais mentionne lea observa-
tions incompletes, inexactes, me laissant un doute dans l' esprit par
suite d' un defaut experimental. On trou\'era sans doute celles-ci bien
insignifiantes, et je reconnais que c' est en efl'et peu de chose pour un
.aussi long effort. Mais, si d' autres observateurs faisaient comme moi,
c'est-&-dire, s' attachaient specialement a l' exactitude experimentale,
at a un dlterminisme Jigoureux, dans Ie &ens que Claude Bernard
attachait a. ce mot; je suis Bftr qu' ils finiraient par reunir des faita bien
curieux. Je ne tiells pas a ce qu' on trouve toutes mes observations
concluantes. Je reconnais que, pour nombre d' entre elles, Ie hasard
peut donner de pareila assemblages. Je tiens seulement a ce qu' on
reftechisse a ces questions et a. ce qu' on s' attache, non pas au
merveilleux, mais ala precision des experiences.
CBAPITRE XIV.
CONCLUSION.
Lea problemes que j' ai ahordes dans Ie cours de ce long
memoire ont ete &gites depuis longtemps. Je n' ai done pas la preten-
OU six OIl huit heures de IKl1I1meil, elle ne dllplace pas d'un millimlltre 8& figure de
I'oreiller 011 elle repose, si bien que Ie ti88U en piqull de draplaill\l6dee tracee sur la peau,
et cea traces ne diBparaissent qu' au bout de plusielUll jOlUll. Un jour l'av,.iB oublie
Ia clef de Ion appartement, si bien qu'apres avoir refennllla porte, il me fut impollllible
de me f&ire ouvrir. La. BOnnette ne la reveillait pas. n f&llut f&ire forcer la &errore par
un aerrurier spt\cialement mandll Acet elJet. Ce sont lit. dee preuvea que, a'il en lltait
beaoin, OIl pourrait invoquer contre la simulation.
Digitized by Coogle
166 Relation de Diverses Experiences, &c.
tion d'innover. n y a un point cependant sur lequel mes experiences
sont, je crois, nouvelles j c' est sur Ie fait de 180 lucidiU pour las dessins,
fait qui n' avait pM encore ete observe, aussi BOuvent, et avec autant
de rigueur.
M. Guthrie, dans ses belles experiences, semble bien avoir prouve J.a.
transmission mentale. 1rla.is mes experiences prouvent quelque
cbose de plus. Outre 180 transmission menta.le il semble y avoir une
sorte de connaissa.nce des choseB. Ainsi, il y a une vague notion d'un
dessin enferme dans une enveloppe opaque, meme quand ce dessin est
totalement ignore des personnes presentes. Est-ce 1& une vision a.
travers les corps opaquM1 J e ne Ie pense pa.s. J e crois que cette
vision & travers les corps ne ressemble en rien &. la. vision retinienne.
Ni la. retine, ni Ie nerf optique, n' y sOflt pour quoi que ce soit. C' est
une vision interieure, comme dans Ie Ca.B de suggestion mentale.
Comment donc expliquer cette vision interieure 1 Comment
expliquer l' action du sommeil &. distance 1 Comment comprendre cette
connaissance des maladies 1 Comment se rendre compte de cette per-
spica.cite extraordinaire qui porte sur des faits lointains et inconnus 1 Si
j' en donnais l' explication, il faudrait me dresser des autels. Ma.is
cette explication, je ne l' ai pas, Mias! et je ne puis donner qu' un mot,
qui revelera 180 profondeur de mon ignorance.
Je dirai que dans certains etats psychiques, chez un petitnombre de
sujets, il existe unefaculte d6 connai88tJ71Ce qui ditrere absolument de
nos facult6s de connaissa.nce ordinaires. Alors it n' y a pa.s d'espace, ni
de temps, ni d' objet materiel interpose. L' aimant attire Ie fer &.
travers une cloiBOn opaque. De meme Ie sujet lucide diBceme Ie
grossier contour d' un dessin &. travers une enveloppe opaque.
Cette faculte de connaissance suppose deux hypotheses qui ne BOnt
absurdes ni l' une ni l' autre.
La. premiere, c' est qu' il y a dans 180 matiere des forces que nos &ens.
et par consequent notre intelligence, ne connaiBsent pas. Nous con·
na.issons l' attraction, la. cha.leur, l' electricite, mm il y a sans doute
d' a.utres forces, qui nous echappent, parce que nous n' avons pa.s de sens
pour les percevoir.
Non seulement cette hypothese n' est pa.s absurde j mais c' est
l' hypothese inverse qui serait absurde. Pretendre que nous, hommes,
avec quelques sens grossiers, imparfaits, erronea, et homes de toutes
parts, nous connaissons tout ce qui exiBte dans la. matiere, ce serait,
&. mon gre, absolument absurde.
C' est donc 1& une hypothese n6cessaire. Ca.r il me parait n6cessa.ire
d' admettre que la. matiere a d' autres propriet6s que celles que nous
connaissons & l' aide de nos sens rudimentaires.
La. seconde hypothese, au contraire, n' est pM n6cessa.ire. Elle ne
s' impose pa.s. II faut la. demontrer, et c' est &. cette demonstration que
Digitized by Coogle
Relation de DiVB'1'Se8 Expbiences, &:c. 167
je me suis applique depuis Ie commencement jusqu' A 1a fin de ce
memoire. C' est que certaines proprietes de la matiere, vivante ou
inerta, pensante ou non pensante, inaccessibles a nos sens normaux,
deviennent accessib1es a certains moments, pour certaines personnes.
Ce1a revient en somme Adire que les sujets 1ucides ont un sens qui nous
echappe, dont nous ne connaissons rien, et que noUB devons noUB
borner acoostater. J' estime quant apresent que toute discussion sur
ce sens, sur cette faculte de connaissance, est oiseuse, ridicule et sterile.
Les faits qui prouvent sa realite ne sont pas encore assez bien etablis
pour que j' aie Ie courage de discuter sur la nature de ce qui est encore
8ujet acontestation.
Je crois que noUB devons d' ahord etablir Ie fait, puis l'interpreter.
Or noUB sommes encore ala periode empirique, qui consiste a etablir Ie
fait lui-m~me sur des bases solides, inattaquables. Un moment viendra
sans doute qu' on cherchera aIe determiner avec precision. On saura
quand un sujet devient lucide, pourquoi et comment il cesse de l' etre. On
saura la cause de ses innombrables et fatigantes erreurs. On donnera la
limite de sa lucidite. On fera d' autres determinations exactes. Mais
aujourd' hui notre tache doit etre plus modeste. Nous devons, je crou,
noUB contenter de la demonstration suivante:-
II exia~ chez certaines personnu, II certains f1lOf1l8'nt8, une faculte tU
conflaiutJnce qui n' a pas de rapport avec noB jaculte. de connaiu"""
normaleB.
A poser Ie probleme SOUB cette forme, on a Ie grand avantage de ne
rien prejuger, et de faire rentrer dans cette definition les belles
observations recueillies dans les PhantaBmB of the Living. Ainsi,
pour moi, 1es hallucinations veridiques et les phenomenes de thought-
tramjerence ne sont-ils qu' un cas special d' un phenomene plus general,
quej' appellerai du vieux mot de LucIDIn.
Je reconnais que mes demonstrations sont insu1lisa.ntes. O'est un
recueil de documents, de notes, plutOt qu'une aluvre d'ensemble; c'ast
une simple eba\1che qui me pamit, amoi peut-etre plus qu' atout autre,
informe et incomplete. Mais mon travail n' aura pas ete inutile si j' ai
eveille la curiosite de quelques investigateurs, et persuade les savants
qu' ils ne doivent pas s' endormirsur 1es resuItats acquis par la science
positive. Certes la physique, 1a chimie,la biologie ont fait de grandea
decouvertes; mais c' est bien peu de chose, acote de tout ce que noUB
ignorons encore.
II y a, sans doute, autour de nous, cachees par notre profonde igno-
rance, des sciences nouvelles qui sont acreer. Pour ma part, je suis con-
vaincu que dans trois siecles on se moquera de notre science
d' aujourd' hui. Nous trouvons grotesques les affirmations na.i:ves des
savants d'il y a trois siecles. Pense-t-on que noUB serons a l' abri des
memes jugements de 1a part de nos arriere-petits-neveux' II faut
168 .Relation de DiveTSe8 Experiences, &c.
nous degager de l' illusion qU(\ 180 science s' ~te 1& ou nous l' aroritona,
et que lea hornea du savoir humain BOnt lea hornea qu' ont pla.ceea lea
savants de 1888.
II faut donc chercher dana Ie domaine de ces facultes mysterieusea,
obscures, maia possibles, et mAme, dana une certaine mesure, probablea.
Malheureusement je n' ai pas pu demontrer avec certitude cette faculte
de lucidite : je n'ai mAme pas pu m'en convaincre moi-mAme de maniere
& me donner une de ees croyances d'apOtrea, qui BOulevent dea
montagnea. Mais il viendra. dea observateurs plus saga.cea, plus heureux,
qui feront ce que je n' ai pas pu faire.
Qu' ila aachent seulement que 180 premiere regIe, ee n'eat pas
l' accumulation d' experiences etourdissantea, mais 180 precision dans
lea details. C' est ainsi que 180 chimie s' eat degagee de l' alchimie; 180
physique de l' astrologie. C'eat seulement par une rigueur experi-
mentale irreprochable que lea scienCes ditea occultea se degageront
enfin de cette douloureuse periode d' obscurite et d' incertitude ou
etlas BOnt plongeea aujourd' hui
Digitized by Coogle
Ea;p6'I"inMntB in Thought-Tramference. 169
III.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By A. BoBKOLL AND J. E. MABIRB.
(Translated from eM Original French.)
In publishing our first experiments in the transference of thoughts
or pictures, without the intervention of the recognised organs of
sensation and without phyaicaJ contact (Proceeding" XI., May, 1887),
we remarked how desirable it was that other amateurs of psychological
science should devote themselves to trials of the same sort. For, if
amongst these experiments there are some which are not absolutely
_tisfactory, it is nevertheless certain that the bulk of the results
attained tend to demonstrate the reality of the phenomenon,-which
was the aim in view. That this phenomenon should usually be denied
or declared illusory is not to be wondered at. In all times new dis-
coveries, apparently at variance with the known data of science, have
been received with distrust; before they have been looked inio, a
theory has been demanded, which should explain them and from which
they should logically follow.
This error of method cannot be sucoo88fully combated otherwise
than by the accumulation of facts. It would be well if all those who
interested themselves sincerely in the progre88 of science would
endeavour to convince themselves by means of a series of experiments,
methodicaJly conducted and undertaken without prejudice, and that
they should profit by the examples furnished by those who have pre-
ceded them in this branch of research: they would then not be long
in perceiving that the field· of investigation in which they were
engaged was rich in surprises, and worthy of their interest from all
points of view.
One cannot, however, proclaim the reality of thought-transference
without at the same time making some reservation as to its modality.
The fact exists; but it does not necessarily force itself upon one on the
first trial. To verify it, we are often obliged to grope about, and
always to take into consideration certain conditions, necessary to
its discovery. One must not expect that all the experiments will
succeed; and again, one must not imagine that mental perception has
the spontaneity and clearness of normal vision. The pictures, on
the contrary, are sometimes slow of production, vague, incomplete,
often modified in form, and nearly always difficult to grasp. In some
eases one must have recourse to a calculation of probabilities to dis-
entangle the true character of the occurrence, and to get a proof that it
Digitized by Coogle
170 E(CfJeriments in ThO'Uflht-T'I'OI1/,8ference.
is not due to chance. We dwell on these difficulties because they are
ora nature to discourage fresh, impatient investigators; but not at all
of a nature to destroy the evidence of the fact. One must never forget
that if thought-transference were altogether an ordinary phenomenon,
the proof of its existence would be RUperftUOus, and there woultl be
no merit in bringing forward the facts which tend to support it.
The experiments (of which we add a description) took place in the
dining-room of the flat, occupied by one of the undersigned, M. A.
Schmoll, 111, Avenue de Villiers in Paris.
The fallowing is a plan of the rooms used :-
AJ.A • 'Ii• .1$-,,1·,
l'.P', pt. lie 1M".'I',...l"
o • cia. .ltju.r to"• •-1-........"
.
Tit. ,.,. eli ,.ut'
.11..
:..
tit
>~~O a..~
~ >. 0
t'" >-
" >".
0 >
~
"'< Dt...,...S ~....
.
J
.1
,..
il
.~
I
•
•
7l.pti... : eC'
...--.....-'
.a.eI........
The following are a few remarks on. the persons who formed our
little circle :-
Madame D., aged 45; was present at the majority of the
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 171
experiments, bu~ was not generally successful in the reproduction of
drawings; she is said to have been hypnotised once in her youth.
Mlle. Marthe D., aged 22; was present at only a limited
number of experiments; in these, moreover, she showed little interest;
she has never been hypnotised.
Mlle. Jane D., aged 20; very regular at the meetings; of
delicate constitution, but healthy; has shown very decided faculty for
the mental perception of objects, in guessing and reproducing them;
has never been hypnotised, but appears as though she might be
8U8Ceptible to the inlluence.
Mlle. Eugenie P.; an artist, aged 30, fairly strong; subject to
headache; has provided a good number of satisfactory results. M.
Schmoll has hypnotised her several times in le88 than two minutes; so
far he has not observed that she is more lucid in the hypnotic state than
when awake.
Mlle. Louise M., aged 26 (vide Proceeding., XL, p. 325), has given
very good results (vide Nos. 51, 66), but on aceount of ill-healtli has
not been able to attend our meetings since May, 1887. She is said
to have been hypnotised several times. M. Schmoll has twice
attempted to put her to sleep, but without SuCCeBS.
M. E. S., aged 30; a political writer, strong, vigorous; has
only joined us on the 26th of November, 1887; has never been
employed as percipient.
M. Eugene Hugo, M. Pierre Levis, and M. Isidore Bonvier have
only been present incidentally; they came more out of curiosity than
in the capacity of colleagues.
As to Madame Schmoll and the two present writers, it is only
necessary to refer to our former notices. (Proceeding" XL, p. 325.)
Our mode of procedure has not always been the same; that is to say,
since the first experiments (1-26), published in the Proceeding., it has
been modified, as we recognised the advantages offered by certain condi·
tions, with respect to experimental certitude and the probabilities of
SUCceBS. Thus, instead of the percipient remaining in a comer of the
room during the drawing of the object, latterly he has waited in the
drawing-room or the bedroom till the design was completed; the match
which was formerly used to draw the pictures was replaced by a soft
brush; instead of a single picture being placed in the middle of the table,
several copies were taken and distributed among the agents, in order
that they might obtain a more direct view; instead of placing the
percipient in the comer P, he was placed at pI, in order to be as
much as possible in our line of vision, &c. We shall take care to
mention these modifications as they occur; for the present we contine
ourselves to calling attention to the general character of our arrange-
ments.
Digitized by Coogle
172 Experiment8 in Thought-Transference.
Our meetings always took place in the evening.. The exPeriments
were not generally commenced until all those who were expected had
arrived-that is to say, about nine or half-past. All the investigatora
were aware of the scientific scope of the attempts, and vied with each
other in their zeal in excluding all source of error and in obtaining
conclusive results.l
EXPERIMENTS WITH DRAWINGS.
The following is what took place when (as in the great majority of
cases) it was required to produce a mental vision of a drawing.
The objects to be guessed were thought of and drawn at once by
one of the two present writers; during this time, those present (with
the exception of the percipient, who was apart from the con:pany,
with eyes blindfolded) talked together or watched the drawer. It was
expressly forbidden to make the least allusion, by word or by action,
to the object which was being drawn.
When all preparations were concluded, and note had been taken of
the time, everyone went to his post: the percipient, seated in the
arm-chair P (or pl or 1>2), which had its back turned towards us,
waited, and the agents took their places at A, in such a manner that
their backs were turned to the wiadow and their looks directed towards
the drawing (0), placed in the middle of the table. The agents then
gazed at this drawing with the earnest wish, the firm desire, that an
image of it should reproduce itself in the brain of the percipient.
1tloreover, if the drawing represented a well-defined object, or one of
familiar form (such as a mark of interrogation, an M, a cross, a nose,
a glass, a leaf, &c.), they repeated to themselves the name of this
object. Thus, to gaze, to desire, to determine is the department of the
agents. As to the percipient. he must as far as possible prevent his
ideas and his imagination from taking any definite direction; his duty
consists in thinking of nothing, in searching for nothing, in dl.'"siring
nothing, but in waiting patiently for a more or less well-defined picturE'
to present itself to his mental vision.
Since the commencement of our work, it has been the rule that no
talking should take place during the experiments, and that everything
should be avoided which could furnish the slightest hint to the percipient.
This rule has been observed with increased stringency since Mr. Myers'
urgent requests on the subject. It was decided that no notice
should be taken of any observations that the percipient might make,
that his questions should receive no reply, in short, that the agents
1 Of the 121 experiments made, 91 are reported in this paper. The remaining 30
were all failures: 27 w.ere experiments with drawings, one with a real object (_
bracelet), one with loto, and one with dominoes.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 173
should refrain from all words, gestures, or movements which might in
any way be interpreted as signs of approbation or disapprobation. Thus
ihere has been absolute silence during the course of the experiments.
The mass of our trials may be divided into several series, similar
in general arrangement, but each characterised by certain modifi-
cations.
Nos. 27 to 50 (inclusive),
(with the exception of Nos. 31-36, 48 and 49, which wer3 not experi-
ments with drawings).
The percipi~nt remained in the dining-room while the original
design was drawn. He, therefore, kept himself apart from the others,
seating himself, blindfolded, in the armchair P, which had its back
towards us; as far as lie was concerned, the experiment commenced
at that moment. He was informed as soon IJ.8 the drawing was
completed, and the agents had taken their places at A, in front
of it.
The percipient drew nothing while seated in the armchair. If at
the end of 10 or 16 minutes he announced' that he saw a figure, the
original was hidden and he was requested to come to. the table and
draw what he had seen. He then did so under our eyes, but in the
midst of perfect silence. If the reproduction thus obtained bore more
or less resemblance to the original, the percipient was replaced in the
annchair and the experiment was continued; only in the most
successful cases did this repetition not take plAoce. If, on the contrary,
the figure produced by the percipient was without any resemblance to
the original, it was passed by, and the trial regarded as a failure.
The percipient first made his drawing in pencil, and then went
.over it in ink, using a match specially prepared for the purpose. The
drawing thus obtained was very exactly copied (generally on the
following day) by M. Schmoll, on the same sheet of paper as the
original, and marked round with blue, to distinguish it.1
The original was never shown to the percipient until his drawing
was completely finished. It often happened that then, after having
looked at it, he declared that his did not represent so faithfully what
he had seen, and that he regretted having unconsciously omitted
or altered such and such detail. But no attention was paid to his
observations j in no case was he permitted to retouch his drawing after
the original had been seen.
1 In \hua doing, :M. Schmoll bad wisbed to avoid an lIOCIlJI1ulation of atray ahaeta.
Forthe whole of this .eriea, (21-50) he haa, UDfortnnately, not preserved thedrawin
made by the hand of the percipient.
Digitized by Coogle
174 Expel'intents 'l-n Thought-Transference.
NO.OFi
TRIAL. PERCIPIENT.
27 : M. Mabire
28 Mlle. Jane.
29 Mme. D.
March 4, 1887.
AGENTS.
Mme. D.
Mlle. Marthe.
Mlle. Jane.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Schmoll.
5.
M. Mabire in
place of
Mlle. Jane.
5.
Mlle. Jane in
place of
Mme.D.
ORIGIIIAL DRA.WING.
p
RESULT.
"I see a Y" Mid M.
Mabire at' first. To·
wards the end of the
experiment the image
had changed & little,
and M. Mabire drew
the following figure:-
1f
Duration.of experiment,
10 minutes.
II I see a triangle, with
its base below. The
triangle appears to me
to be tilled up; hut the
darkness, very pro·
nouncetl at the angle,
disappears at the b&se
-whIch is itself not
represented at all."
Then Mlle. Jane drew
this figure :-
Duration, 12 minutes.
II I see something like
a flower with four ex-
tended leaves."
II Now, there are two
ellipses placed together
honzontally, like an 8
lying down; 8. descend-
ing stroke separates
them."
Durat,i(ln, 12 minutes..
Ezperi.'m6'IIts in Thought-T'I'OI1Ulference. 175
Marcil 4, 1887 (continrucl).
Jlo. 01'
PBBCD'IBIIT. ...0_ ORJOIllAL DRAWlNO. aEStrLT.
nu.t.L.
30 MIle. Marthe. 5. 1. .. An extended curve,
Mme. D. in convex upwards."
~:.ce of 2. "Three curves, hori·
zontally united, and a
Marthe. white B{:,t above."
The fol owing are the
two drawinf! made one
after the ot er;-
G) ~.~
14 minutes.
lfarcA 11, 1887.
1'I0.0P
PBBCJPIBlIT. .t.OB!ITS. ORIOINAL DRAWING• RESULT.
38 MIle. Jane. 6.
,t
Mme. D.
M
Mlle. Marthe.
Mlle.~~nie.
Nf'
Mme. moll
M. Mabire.
The angles were fiNt
M. Schmoll.
seen fitted into each
other, afterwards side
by side. There were
four of them.
15 minutes.
39 Mlle.E~nie. 6.
Mile. Jane
in EI1ac e
M ~~~
of lie.
Eug~nie.
In the third attempt,
MIle. Eug~nie saw
"two circles open on
one side, and joined
laterally by a. stroke."
10 minutes.
It should be well undel"lltood tha.t it is always the percipient who draws the
objects seen.
Digitized by Coogle
176 Expe?'iment8 in Thought-Transference.
March 11, 1887 (continued).
NO. OF
PERCIPIENT. AGENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING. RESULT.
TRIAL.
--
411 Mme.D. 6.
~ \lOCP
Mile.Eugenie
in place of
Mme. D.
1 By exception, a material object was ohosen this time, a glau salt-cellar (of
which we give a representation) being placed on the table.
March 16, 1887.
NO. OF
PEllCIPIENT. AGENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
TRIAL.
--
42 M. Mabire. 2.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Schmoll.
•
• • •
•
March 25, 1887
NO. OF
PERCIPIENT. AGENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWlNG.
TllIAL.
43 Mlle. Jane. S.
Mme.D.
Mlle.Enfenie.
Mme.Sc moll
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
CJ
llESULT.
"A capital letter F,
lean~ towards the
right.'
"An X; at the6eint of
tunction of t e two
rancheR, I see irregu.
larities."
"Verylittledistinctness."
FXX
RESl'LT.
" I see a large black spot
on a white space; it is
l!1llTOunded by a circle,
or rather by an elli
placed horizontally.
0
Mlle. Jane, the whole
1
time, bad above at
insisted on the larg
black spot on white. •
15 minutes.
igitized by Goog
E;hperinumts in Thought-Transference. 177
Marcil. 25, 1887 (continued).
NO. OF
P&RCIPIBl'IT. AOBIITS. ORIOIIUL DIL4WIIIO. BJl8ULT.
YRLU..
44 Mlle. Eugenie. 5.
~
Mlle. Jane
~L
in )lace
of 11 e.
Eugenie.
I7 minutes.
-IS Mme. D. 5•. A number of objects
Mlle.Eugenie without any connection
in plsce of with the original: &
Mme. D. table, ~incers, a pick.
axe, a ,a square, &e.
t 1711TD
(The T presents BOrne
analogy.)
15 minutes.
March 28, 1887.
.-
l'IO.OI' PERCIPIENT. AOEIIY8. ORIGlII"L DIU.Wll'IO. JLESULT.
TRI.U..
46 1\1. Mabire. 4.
ry 'T'
Mme. D.
Mlle. Jane.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Schmoll. And a number of other
I
objects without any
connection.
• (A certain resemblance,
though rather vague.)
I
I
15 minutes.
47 M. Mabire. 4. During 20 minutes no
Snme lUI No. result; M. Mabire saw
46. very badly defined
things. At the eni of
, 25 minutes he took off
I
the bandage and drew-
*
!
I
(IJ
I I
After having sun the IJriginal, he said that he had certainly seen a centre
throwing off rays, like a sun or a star; but lUI that was nn image which often
N
178 Experiments in Tkought-Transference.
presenteditself on its own account, he had not believed it to bavebeen occasioned
by UB, and had made no mention of it. Altogether the result is doubtful
April 2, 1887.
1'10.0' PERCIPIENT. ,tOENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING. RESULT.
TRIAL.
.
50 Mlle. Jane. S.
~ II\~
Mme. D.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Schmoll.
fA
NOB. 51 to 84 (inclusive),
(with the exception of Nos. 65 and 70, which were not experiments
with drawings).
The percipient now no longer remained in the dining-room, but
WII.B taken into the drawing-room, before the original drawing was pre-
pared; when it WII.B finished, he WII.B recalled and placed in the arm-
chair P, after which the expl'lriment began.
From the commencement of this series onwards, instead of a single
drawing, several copies were made and distributed among the agents,
80 that each copy served for only one or two persons. This plan was
adopted in order that each agent might be able to see the drawing in
an upright position, and that he might be able to place it at the most
favourable point of view. We ought to add that in the 58th and
70th trials exception WII.B made to this rule, and that later on (on
and after the 87th) it was not regularly adhered to.
The percipients having remarked that in many cases they did not
see one single form, but two, three, or more in succession, the arrange-
ments of the preceding series were modified, in so far that the percipient,
on taking his place in the armchair, received a pencil and a sheet of
paper, on which he sketched (raising the covering of his eyes) all
the figures which successively presented themselves to his mental vision.
When one or more figures had been drawn under these conditions, one
of the agents took a glance at them, in order to see whether the experi-
ment should be continued or terminated at this point. In the first
case, whatever might be his opinion, he remained silent on his return
to his place, at the most making known, by the play of his features,
whether he was satisfied with his examination or not. In the second
case, the percipient was asked to come to the table and show his
drawing or drawings. He was absolutely forbidden to retouch what
he had already drawn; but at his request he was sometimes permitted
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 179
to add, from memory, other figures which he said he had seen. It is
unnecessary to repeat that the original remained hidden while he drew
these figures, and that a rigorous silence was observed.
Finally, the figures obtained were no longer copied, but those
drawn by the percipient were kept along with the originals. This plan
has since been followed, except in the 77th experiment, when a copy
of the dra.wing made by the percipient has been placed by the side
of the original.
April 5, 1887.
110.01
TRIAL.
PEBCIPIE1'IT. .I.0KIITS. OIUOIlUL DIUWllfO• IU!8ULT.
51 Mlle. Louise 4.
~
M. Mme.D.
!
MIle. .Jane.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Schmoll.
Each agent had Before drawin~ the above
a copy of the fi~re, Ml e. Louise
origineJ. 88ld, II 8. terrestrial
globe on a support."
10 minutes.
52 Mlle. Jane. 4. Four copies of
!
Mlle. Louise the 0:;rnal
in place of were u by
MIle. Jane. the agents.
10 minutes.
~
5.'J Mme.Schmoll 3. Three copies
A
need.
~
During the experimen
Mme. Schmoll said tha
t
t
she saw II a little roof.'.
10 minutes.
54 Mlle. Jane. 3. Three copies
t.
Mme.Schmoll used.
iu place of
;g
Mlle. Jane.
\i 15 minutes.
?tflle. Jane, after having sun the original, said that her first idea had been
that of a glass.
N 2
igitized by Goog
180 Experimenta in Thought-Transference.
April 5, 1887 (continued).
::i~ PERCIPIENT. AGEII18. ORIGINAL DRAWING. RESULT.
-
65 Mme.D. 4. Four copies
used.
1t
G\.. ~
10 minutes.
56 M. Schmoll. 4. Four copies
Mme. D. in used.
~ace of M.
I I~
hU1Oll.
10 minutes.
58 Mlle. Jane. 6.
~
After five minutes Mile.
Jane said, "I see a.
cat's bead."
On beinl Mked to draw
what s e 8&W, she pro-
This WM the duced the following
first time that· figure:-
an animal had
been drawn.
~
59 Mlle. Jane. 6.
~
At the endof fiveruinutes.
Mlle. Jane baving sa.id.
"itis a headin pro~le."
a c~ of joy un ortu-
nate y esca.ped one of
those present. This cry
This the
havin~ betrayed to
WM Mlle. ane that sbe had
first time tbat ~essed rightly, no
a bead had rawing WM made. In
been drawn. order to re~r the
wrong M ruuc M pos-
sible, Mlle. Jane ,vas
Mked which way the
head WM turned. .. To
the left," she replied.
Digitized by Coogle
Experirn-ents in Thought-Tramference. 181
April 8, 1887.
c. PERCl.
...., I
0== PIEIIT. .lOOTS.
II
ORIOIICAL DIlAWIICO. llEIII1LT.
66 Mlle. 5. At the end of a few minuteH,
Loui.ee
(~~
Mlle. Louise said, .. I 866
I: three fish on a skewer."
Myers) Not bein~ well understood,
she explamed, "Three fish
I This :rv:: W88 drawn by
held by a skewer, that is 88
they are BOld in the fish
I
Mr. yel1l. markets; but everybody
knows that I .. Then IIhe
I
took off her bandage and
drew-
W ~
~
69 Mlle. 5.
7f r
Louise (~UII
fr.
Myers)
April 22, 1887.
:-;0. OF
PEllCIPIENT.
TlUA!..
.lOE!lT8. ORlOllUL DIlAWING• RBSI1LT.
72 Mlle. Eugenie. 6. Afteraquarter ofan hour.
Mme.D. Mlle. Eugenie succes·
Mlle. Marthe. sively made several
Mile. Jane. drawin~ in the order
Mme.Schmoll in whic she saw them.
M. Mahire.
M. Schmoll.
~? c1~t
I ~'??~
igitized by Goog
182
O.OF
1'1
TRIA.L.
74
NO. OF
TRIA.L.
'i5
76
Experilments in Th01.l{Jht-Transference.
April 22, 1887 (continued).
PERCIPIENT. AOENTS. ORIOINAL DRAWINO. RESI:LT.
Mme.Schmoll 3. Three copies 1. .. A star with a \'ery
Mlle. Jane. used. large spot in the
M. Mabire. centre."
M. Schmoll. 2. "A corkscrew-shaped
= fi~re, with threespirals
-
- well marked, and a
• fourth vague" (v. draw-
in, No.2).
3. he same fi~ure in
the position of o.!i.
~~
:sS
15 minutes.
As in No. 72, these figures were seen Iluccessively.
PERCIPIENT. AOENTS. ORIOINAL DRAWINO. RESVLT.
Mlle. Jane. 3. "A zigzag, like a stair-
Mme.Schmoll case, descending to the
in place of right."
Mlle. Jane.
~ ~
~O
M. Schmoll. 3. Three eopies
Mlle. Jane in used.
q9t
~lace of M.
ehmoD.
0 ~ ¥
20 minutes.
At the end of the experiment M. Schmoll made the following remark:-
.. I saw the four figures separately. A strange thing: at one moment when I
was trying to seize the exact shape of a figure that I perceived, M. Mabire
coughed loudly; at once the figure, of which I had caught a glimpse, shook,
became clouded over, and disappeared-only to reappear when M. Mabire has
eeased coughing."
Digitized by GoogIe
E~riments in Tlwught-Transference. 183
1I0.o.F
TRIAL.
PERCIPIE!O'.
77 M. Mabire.
:1'0. o.F PEBCIPIE.'U.
TRIAL.
78 Mlle. Jane.
79 Mlle.Eugenie.
April 22, 1887 (continued).
AOEIITS. OIUOIIIAL DRAWING.
3. Three copies
M. Schmoll in used.
~ace of M.
abire.
R
April 29, 1887.
AGEIIT8.
4.
Mlle.Eugenie.
Mme.8chmoll
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
4.
Mlle. Jane
in p'l ace
of Mlle.
Eugenie.
\ORIGINAL DRAWING,
Three copies
used.
RESULT.
II Something like a leaf
or an oar; the lower
tfa! is solid and very
lack."
,
Also vaguely seen :-
)
(
20 minutes.
RESULT.
Seen separately.
20 minutes.
Seen very vaguely.
2Ominutea.
Mlle. Eugenie saw the figures 1---41 successively; some bear a certain
resemblance to the original.
Digitized by Coogle
NO.O'
TRIAL.
80
NO.~'
TauL.
PIIBCIPIDT.
Mme.SchmoU
PIIBCIPIBIIT.
81 Mlle. Jane.
AGBII"III. ORIGINAL D....WlNG.
3. Three copies
UBed.
~
MGY 4, 1887.
ORIGINAL D....WING.I
8. Two copies
Mme.SchmoU used.
M. Mabire.
M.SchmolL
BBSULT.
"Bright, like glass."
r1l~
1t(?
• "Bright-whitish."
t"Bright-whitish.It
Nos. 4 and 5 were seen
slanting, as drawn, Dot
upright.
15 minutes.
BBSl1LT.
"'Several crosses: various
figures like the above."
Although this experiment is considered a failure, a eert.ain resemblance to
the back of a chair may be granted to drawing No.4.
NO.~'
TRUL.
PEBCIPIENT. AGENTS. ORIGINAL DIU.WING. BBSULT.
82 Hme.Schmoll 3. Three copies
Mlle. Jane in used.
~
ti:0fMme.
~
oU.
Digitized by GoogIe
E:rperi11l6'1lt8 in Thou,gkt-Transjf/1'ence. 18i
May 5, 1887.
110. ~I
T&lAL.
PBBClPIBI'IT. AOENTS. ORJOI1'I.t.L D....WII'O. BIIIULT.
84 MIle. Jane. 7. Four copies
Four. of the uaed.
=i1J~S)
ladies.
Dr. Bericourt.
:t:t
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
I
]8 minutes.
NOB. 88 to 119 (inclusive),
(with the exception of Nos. 89, 90, 93, 94, 99-108, 120-125, which
were not experiments with drawings).
The percipient was now sent into the bedroom before the drawing
was commenced, and remained there with Madame Schmoll. When
the drawings were finished both the ladies were recalled. Of course,
Madame Schmoll knew no more of what was being drawn than the
percipient herself. All the time that the ladies were in the bedroom
they talked on indifferent subjects; the doors separating the dining·
room from the bedroom and the drawing-room were always carefully
shut.
The ma.tch used up to this point for sketching the original designs
had made no appreciable noise; and it was precisely for this reason that
it had been chosen in preference to a pen, the scratching of which
might, to a certain extent, have betrayed to the percipient the
character, number, direction, or form of the strokes. But on and after
the 92nd experiment, although the percipient was sent into an
adjoining room before the drawing was commenced, the match was
replaced by a sable-hair brush, the empjoyment of which cut off' all
possibility of any noise being made during drawing.
After the commencement of this serif'.8 (counting from No. 87), the
percipient's armchair was no ionger invariably placed at P; it was
sometimes at pI, at other times at pi, a detail to which no importance
was attached.
Digitized by Coogle
186 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
November 19, 1887.
NO.OP PEUCIPIKNT. AGElITS.
TRIAL. ORIGINAL DRAWING. RESULT.
88 Mlle.Eugenie. 3. Only one copy
*~~J(
Mme. Schmoll of the original
M. Mabire. made.
M. Schmoll.
*!
3 12 minutes.
-
The following experiment took pla.ce at the house of Mlle. Eugenie.
November 22, 1887.
.
:'<O.Ot' PERCIPIENT.
TRIAL. A.GENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING. RESULT.
91 Mlle. Eugenie. 5.
Mme. M.l
-$- ,~~&
Mme. Schmoll
M.M.I
'~~
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
It
15 minutes.
1 Mme. M. only appl'.ars as agent on this one occasion, M. M. once again wben
an experiment was made at Mlle. Eugenie's residence.
November 26, 1887.
:'<O.OP PERCIPIENT. AGE:<TS. ORIGINAL DRAWING. RP.st:LT.
TRIAL.
92 Mlle. Jane. 6.
..fA-~ 1
Mme. D.
~
Mlle. Marthe. IA~ ~r
Mme. Schmoll .sA.;::::r :I
M. S.
)1. Mabire.
10 minutes.
M. Schmoll.
Mlle. Jane exressly de·
clared that t e hull of
the boat was black. But
I did not wish the pencil
drawings to be touched.
-A.S.
While the original was being drawn, Mlle. Jane was (as was the perclplent
during the whole of this series of experiments) in an adjoining room. All the
time of the experiment, while she was drawing the reproduction, the silence
was complete. It was as though she had been altogether alone.
Digitized by Ie
Experimenta in Thought-Transference. 187
The nlllt row, I-I, was drawn by Mlle. Jane while seated in the annchair j
five minutes later, after we had carefully hidden the original, she came nearer
to the light in order to see better, and drew the second row, 2-2, and then the
third, 3-3, adding, II I have always seen the bottom of the fignre black."
During all this time, complete silence j no sign of encouragement, nor of
joy. It was not until the drawing (reprodnction) was altogether finished, as I
now give it, that the original was brought out. Then we all cried out, .. What
a pity that Mr. 1tJyelli was not present at this experiment I "
One has but; to blacken the drawing (with ink). enl&l'bre it to the dimensions
of the original, and blacken the hull of the boat, and one will have very nearly
a faithful reproduction of the original.
Some minutes after being seated Mlle.Jane had said," I see a large triangle,"
then lIuce_ively:-
.. There are triangles .
"Several straight lines
.. A dark object."
Thereupo-n she began to draw the row 1-1. She does not seem to have once
had the ideo of a boat, although O'lr thoughts were strongly concentrated on
this idea.
I have given more tletails of this experiment than of any of the preceding,
because it is the beat and the most conclusive that we have ever made.
December 3, 1887.
so. OF
PEKCIPIE.\'IT. A.GE.vrII. ORIGINAL DRA.WllIG. RESULT.
TIlJA.L.
95 Mlle. Jane. 7.
r
Mme.D.
YJD
Mlle. Marthe.
Mlle. Eu~c!nie.
Mme.Sc moll
M.S.
M. Schmoll. After a few minutes, "I
see a stran~e object,"
and Mlle. ane drew
sUCC8asively the four
fignres giveu above.
Returning to the lilllt,
I
which had impreased
her imagination mos~
strongly, she said,
"There is a tail which
trembles."
The experiment lasted a
quarter of an hour
. without ~ving any fur·
ther reau t.
96 Mlle. Eugc!nie. 7.
'Y 81*fr
l\llle. Jan e
in ~ace
of 11 e.
Eugc!nie.
~
:s
I
Digitized by Coogle
188 Experiments in Tkought-Tramference.
NO.~'
TRIAL.
97
NO. 0.'
TRIAL.
PERCIPIENT.
Mlle. Jane.
PERCIPIENT.
Dumtber 9, 1887.
AGENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
4•
Mme.D.
..
Mme.Schmoll
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
December 10, 1887.
AGENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
RESULT.
e~
At the eud of 10 miDut(!8
Mlle. Jane drew 88
above.. She said that
she had aeen an object
resembling a flower·pot.
While drawing, ahe
added, "I see some·
thing like a stalk bent
over cominlaout of it."
She also aintly 1M'
ceived a trian:,le. ( his
triangle is a undantly
represented in the CI'OI8'
bars of the original.)
RESULT.
----'-----------1-----------11-------------1------------------
1091 Mlle. Jane.
I
6
Mme.D.
Mlle. Marthe.
Mlle.Eugenie.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
After two minutes Mlle.
Jane said : .. Itis some·
thing that has a handle
-I see two handlea."
After 12 minutes ahe
drew-
Digitized by Coogle
ExperirnentB in Thought-Transference. 189
December 10, 1887 (collti1l1led).
NO. O~
TRIAL. PERCIPIENT. AOENTS. ORIOIl'IAL DRAWINO. RESULT.
no Mlle. Eugenie. 6. After 12 minutes, Mill'.
Mlle. Jane Eu~enie drew the fol·
in Eiace 10wlDg:-
of 11 e.
Eugenie.
(~.~ 25
<;
I
~~
I
i
I
I Figures 3, 4, 7 present
I
certain resemblances.
I
Deumber 13, 1887.
The following experiment took place at the residence of Mlle. Engenie.
!'<O.OF PERCIPIENT. AGENTS. ORIUINAL DRAWl!'<G. RE8ULT.
TRI.oL.
HI Mlle. Eugenie. 4. At. the end of 15 minutes
Mme. Schmoll Mlle. Eugenie drew the
M.M.l following :-
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
60!0®
~
~14~
•••
}Ime. Schmoll (one of the
agentll) had gazed at the
lam) for a cl'rtain time
dnnng the experiment.
Her eyes were tired
from looking fixedly at
the black spots of the
die.
1 M. M. has only taken part in the experiments made at the residence of Mlle.
Eugenie.
Digitized by Ie
190 Experiments in Thought-Tramference.
December '17, 1887.
NO OF.
TRIAL. PERCIPIENT. AGENTS.
113 MIle. Jane. 6.
115 Mlle. Jane.
Mme.D.
Mlle.Eugenie.
Mme.Schmoll
Mlle. Marthe.
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
6.
Same as in
No. 113.
ORIGINAL DRAWING.I RESULT.
After two minu~ Mile.
Jane said: .. I havegot
the notion of a flute-
or of some musica.l in·
strument or other." (A
little later), ..Iseemanv
lines. It resembles i.
vase, but it ill DOt 8,
vaBe."
Mlle. Jane then dre""
and said: "Now it is
like a h~; there are
several stnngs-like 8,
little gridiron."
At the end of the experi·
ment, which lasted 15
minutes, Mile. Jane
gave us the above five
drawings, which bear
great resemblanco to
the original. While
she was drawin~ theee
figures (seated lD the
armchair), no one ",as
looking at her, and all
WaB done in the greatest
silence.
Failure, but partial reo
semblance.
(
Mlle. Jane had had the
idea of .. M. Schmoll's
pipe," .. A cat." After·
wards shesaw .. a black
m8B8, longer than it is
broad, on a white
{,'l'Ound" . • ..alway.
black." Mlle. Jane said
that she was quite un·
able to seize the out-
lines. "This is not a
regular fonn." .. I give
up the drawing of
what this may be" I
I The above angle had been drawn at the commencement of the experiment
by MUe Jane, after two or three minutes. The experiment lasted 15 minutes.
Digitized by GoogIe
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 191
De«mber 24, 1887.
JlO.OP
PERCII'IB!IT. .l.OBNTS. ioRIOIJlAL DRAWINO.
TRIAL. RESULT.
1I6 MIle.EugtSnie. 7.
~!t
Mme.D.
X
Mile. Jane.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Mabire.
M. Pierre
Levis.
M. hid ore
After three
Bonvier. or four
M. Schmoll. minutes Mlle. Eu~nie
(seated in the armc air)
drew 8uccessivelv the
three figures. Having
at once Showed them to
UII, and being asked
what it was that she
had first wished to
draw, she replied, .. A
tair of SCi880rs."
T e experiment lasted
seven minutes.
119 Mlle.EugtSnie. 8.
T
Same as in
Q~~
No. n6, plus
M.S.
Seven minutes.
"Figures 1 and 3 present
certain faint similarity
to the original.
Nos. 127 to 132 (inclusive).
A final modification was introduced into the arrangements: the
original desip was made by M. Mabire in the bedroom, while the
percipient remained with tpe agents in the dining room.
This series produced only failures, partly perhaps owing to
the retirement of the drawer, and to the survival of the varied
impressions that the percipient had received during his conversation
with the agents. We believe, on the one hand, that the image is more
strongly impressed on the memory of the agents, when they see the
way in which it; is formed and developed under the hand ot the drawer;
and on the other hand, that the percipient should in some measure
prepare himself for the experiment by banishing from his mind all
distracting subjects.
Digitized by GoogIe
192
NO. OF
TRI&L.
127
NO.OFI
TRUL.
129
130
E:xperi;mentB in Thought-Transference.
December 30, 1887.
PERCIPIEIIT. &GEIITS. ORIGllI.u. DR&WI!I"G.
Mlle. Jane. 9.
Mme.D.
.,
Mlle. Marthe.
Mme.Schmoll
M. Charles
H.I
M. Eugene
Hugo.
M. Pierre
Levis.
M.S.
M. Mabire.
M.·Schmoll.
RESULT.
~~~~~
.. I have the idea of a
carafe, now of a sugar
basin; I seem to see
an object of this de.
scription, but I cannot
define it exactly.,,_
J. D. (This was no
spoken by MIle. Jane,
t
h
but written underneat
the reproductions).
I Tbe only mention of )1. Charles H. in this report.
PERCIPn:NT.
Mlle. Jane.
Mlle. Jane.
January 6, 1888.
&GEl'o'TS.
I~"".uw"•.
RESULT.
5.
'1'tt~
Mme.D. ~
Mme.Schmoll
M.S. .
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
.
5.
l
Same as in
No. 129.
10 minutes.
I
~A~
IMlle. Jane had c
I stantly seen "arrow
on
s,"
"the poin~ ofan arro
I 12 mmules.
".."
Digitized by GoogIe
Experiments in Thought-TrOlnllference. 193
January 31, 1888.
1I0.0P
PERCIPIENT. .lGEIITS. OBIGIIIAL DBAWIIIO. RESULT•
TRIAL.
--
132 MUe. Jane. 5.
f ?5~
Mme.D.
Mml'!.Schmoll
M. S.
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
Nos. 133 to 148,
(with. the exception of Nos. 139 to 142, which were not experiments
with drawings).
In this series we re-adopted the conditions of the series 87 to 126.
February 4, 1888.
1I0.0P
PBRCIPIBI'IT. .lOBIITII. OBlOIII.lL DBAWIIIG• RESULT.
TBUL.
--
133 Mlle. 4.
I ~
Jane. Mme. D.
MUe.Eurnnie. ~
Mme.Sc moll ~
M. Schmoll.
After five minutes, .. 1
only see 8trokes." After
10 minutes, Mlle. Jane
asked if we were men-
. tally telling her the
name of the 7' I
replied, "We callit
out for you (mentalg;)
all together at e
moment when 1 strike
the third 8troke." (I
struck one, two, three.)
Here we all called out
mentally.
.. Ladder I" (EcAelle)
.. Scarf I" (Ecl&a )
said Mlle. Jane. 'fio
whisper had
ourmouth8.
escaped
(At a second trial of this
sort Mlle. Jane heard
nothing.)
135 Mlle. 4.
,
Jane. Same as in
~Pf
No. 133.
o
Digitized by Coogle
194 Experiments in Tlwught-Tramference.
Fellruary 4, 1888 (continmd).
NO. OF
PERCIPIENT.I AGENTS. ORIOINAL DRAWING. I RESULT.
TRIA'L.
137 Mlle. 5.
j:~,fu
Jane. Mme.D.
~
Mlle.Euenie.
Mme.Sc moll
~-~
M. Mabire.
M. Schmoll.
13 minutes.
138 MIle. 5.
Eugenie. Mlle. Jane
lit
-in ~ace
•• ~
of lIe.
Eugenie.
Drawing No. I was made
at the end of four
minutes.
The whole experiment
lasted eight minutes;
the three objects were
seen successively, and
were drawn without the
perctie.nt's leaving the
armc aIr.
After having seen tbe original, she declared tbat sbe had thought of an
_arrow.
February 15; 1888.
NO. 0.· PERCIPIENT. AGENTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING. RESULT.
TRIAL
143 Mlle. Eugenie. 4.
~~
Mme. D.
Mlle. Jane.
-r
Mme.Schmoll
~t
M. Schmoll.
12 minutes.
144 Mlle. Jane. 4. 7 e
Mlle. Eugenie
A
@/'..
in fel&Ce of
mumlA
MI e. Jane.
..~
12 minutes.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 195
FeJmuJry IS, 1888.
1'0.0' PEllCIPIDT.
TBUL AGE1'lTS. ORIGINAL DRAWING. Rl!llnT.
--
146 M. Schmoll. 3.
MIle. EUf6nie.
~ *~J
Mme.Se moll
M. bchmoll.
I~ minutes.
148 Mlle.Eug6nie. 3.
n ltl~
M. Schmoll
in l'lace
of Mlle.
Eug6nie.
••••
if.
12 minutes.
It will be granted that, with such minute precautions, we were not
likely to be deluded. It is true that all our trials have not been
successful; but at least we are entitled to state that all our successes
are real successes, and that the conclusions to be drawn from th~m
rest on a solid basis.
Mr. Myers was present at experiments Nos. 50, 61, 62, 64, 66, 6i,
68, and 69, of which only three (those in italics) are reported here, the
others having failed.
Out of four trials (83, 84, 85, and 86) made in the presence of
M. Ie Dr. Haricourt, only one presented any similarity to the original.
We are thus inclined to believe that the presence of fresh elements
is apt to preoccupy the minds of the agents and percipients in a
manner prejudicial to success.
EXPERIMENTS WITH CARDS.
We have made only a few experiments of this kind (25 in all), and,
on the whole, they have not produced the results that we had hoped
from them.
Our manner of proceeding was as follows :-
The percipient was first taken into the bedroom ; then one of the
agents (who were assembled in the dining-room) took a pack of 32
cards, chose one of them, and, without speaking, showed it to the other
agents. When they had all seen it well, the pack was hidden, after
the chosen card had been restored to it. Then the percipient was
called, placed himself in the armchair (with its back towards the
agents), and covered his eyes. The chosen card was then ag3.in taken
o 2
Digitized by Coogle
196 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
from the pack, and placed under the eyes of the agents. They were
expressly ordered to remain absolutely silent and unmoved, whatever
might be the guesses of the percipient; and this rule has been
always rigorously observed.
The following are the results obtained in this series :-
IIO.OP
TRU.L.
31
32
33
34
PERCIPIENT.
Mlle. Jane.
Mlle. Jane. 1
M. Pierre Levis.
M. Mabire.
.
March 9, 1887.
AGENTS.
••
Mme. D.
M. Mabire.
Mme. Schmoll.
M. Schmoll.
I CAllD CHOSEN.
The king of
hearts had first
bee n chosen,
but hardly was
Mlle. Jane
seated when it
was changed to
the a ce of
apadu.
5. Eight of Marti.
Same as No.
31, plus M.
Pierre Levis.
5.
Mlle. Jane in
the place of
M. Pierre
Levis; others
as before.
5.
Mme.D.
Mlle. Jane.
Mme. Schmoll.
M. Schmoll.
M. Pierre Levis.
Queen of hearls.
At first Mlle.
Jane had pro·
posed that he
shouldgnessthe
ace of clubs,
but by com-
mon accord
the a.ce of
diamonds was
chosen.
JlESULT.
Afterfour minutes,
Mlle. Jane said,
.. I see something
like a heart, the
point down-
wards; just bv
the side of it "I
see a crown."
Five min u tea
later, she sudden-
ly cried: "Now
I know; is it
not the ace of
qxulu' " (T h e
oDject had been
seen black on a
white grouDlI.)
After eifht
minutes: " Bee
a number of
hearls."
After 10 minutes.
M. Pierre had
seen nothing ;
but he had had
the idea of the
q1le1ln of spades,
and the ace of
clubs.
(After20minutes.) t
"I see club&."
Four minutes
later: "It is
dianlOnds." Aft~r
four more
minutes: .. I see
something I ike
the crown of the
ki ug of dia-
fnOfl.cU."
1 In an:>ther record of these experiments, the percipient in No. 32 is said to have
been Mme. D., and the time that elapeed before the rellponae was made, a q\larter of
an hour.
I Five minutes is the time given in the second !"!COrd.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-T'ransference. 197
MarrA 9, 1887 (COIIlillueti).
1I0.0FI
TRJAL. PEBClPIUT. .lOEllTS. CAllD CBOSKII•
35 Mme. Schmoll. 6. Nine of Marti.
M. Mabire in
~ofMme.
moll.
36 M. Schmoll 5. Kg. ofdia1l101llll.
Mme. Schmoll
intaceof M.
Sc moll.
April 2, 1887.
1I0.0P
PERCIPIENT. AOENTS. CAllD CBOSBl'l.
TRIAL.
48 Mlle. Jane. 6. Tell of Marti.
Mr. Mfiera.
Mme..
Mlle. Marthe.
Mme. Schmoll.
M. Schmoll.
49 Mlle. Jane. Same &8 No. 48 Nine of Marti.
Thus, out of the preceding eight trials,
One succeeded (No. 31);
Four gave partial eoineideneea; &lid
Three failed.
aDULT.
(After 10 minutes.)
"Clubs"; "King
of spades."
(After 10 minutes.)
"3:een of
clu "; " Still
clubs."
aaULT.
(After 12 minutes.)
" I see AearII."
Nothing seen.
The &uooess of No. 31 hu undoubtedly been BOmewhat weakened by the
incorrect expreasions which preceded the exact reply; but it is only just toadd
that this Jut W&8 given out in a perfectly spontaneous manner, and that the
silence bad been complete during the whole of the trial.
December 3, 1887.
We wished this time to attempt the transference of a ment.al .uggee~on,
and this is bow we carried it out.
M. Mabira wrote the ftame of a card on a scrap of paper, took M. Syffert
aside and let him read the name. Then M. S. placed h\maelf opposite MIle.
E~nie (both were standing), and &8ked her to gu881 the card in question.
During the trial, MIle. Eugenie turned away her eyea and closed them.
110. OP PERCIPIENT. .lOBl'lT. CARD CB08K11. RESULT.
TIUAL.
(Almost
immediately.)
a Hlle. Eugenie. M. S. Ten of club•. .. It is clubs."
.. It is the ei~ht."
.. No, it is t e Un
of club,."
Digitized by Coogle
198 Experirrumts in Tkotl1Jht-Tramjerence.
December 3, 1887 (cOItlinuul).
lIo,opl
TRIAL.
PBRCIPIBI'IT. AOBIITI. UIlD CBOSBII. RE8l:LT.
b do. do. ACIl oj dia,nonda. " It is diafllOftda. "
" The seven...
" The knave."
c do. do. King of spada. " It is ~u...
" It is t e ace...
"There is a figure
in it."
" Is it the queen?"
The following experiments were carried out under different conditions to
~oae which we had previously adopted.
The percipient, without having 1!eforehand quitted the dining.room, sat
down in the armchair P (or PI), and covered hia eyes. Then, in the midst of
the greatest silence, one of the agents took a pack of (32) eard.a, ahulHed it, cut
it, and turned up one portion so as to expose the bottom card; this card was
~en placed well in view of the agents, and the experiment commenced.
It was decided that at each trial three cards were to be gueaaed succeaaively ;
and that the percipient, walesa he gueaaed correctly at once (in wbich case we
passed on), might have three gueasea for each card (only occasionally did he
have two or four).
The following is the Table of Results obtained under these conditioJll.l.
December 9, 1887.
~:i~~ PBRCIPIBNT. AGBNTS. CARD CHOSEII. IUIIIULT.
{ (Hoply a1moo.
Kna.ofd'mnd8
immediate. )
" It is diamond8."
" The ~'lIave. "
99 Mlle. Jane. 4.
{" Hearts."
Mme.D. Eight oj clubs " Spades."
Mme. Schmoll.
M. Mabire. " Ace of rlubs."
M. Schmoll.
{" Clubs."
Kna. ofapadu .. Knaw of hearts."
Ten of club,
{ " Diamonds. "
" Ten of slbades."
" King of earts."
{"K~.'of"""'."
100 Mme.D. 4. King ojhear"
" It is always red. ,.
Mlle. Jane in .. King of diamonds."
KIl ace of " The eight."
me.D.
{" Queen of cluba."
Quunofspad~ "Picture card,cluba."
" King of spada." .
Digitized by Coogle
E"'perilf1lents in TlUYught-T'I'O/1I,8fertmee.' 199
PBBClPImft.
101 Mlle. Jane.
102 MIle. Eugenie.
103 Mlle. Marthe.
~10.1887.
5.
CAIlD caGeD. aaULT.
{
(After threeminutes.)
n.._ 01' cltlbs "Akingohomeaort."
V-'" :I " King of spades."
" Knave of cltlbs."
" Uearts."
Mlle. Eugenie. Sevm 01'
Mile. M&rthe. :I
Mme. Schmoll.
{
" Diamonds."
" King of diamonds."
"It is 1pIldu."
"It is the ten of
8JKMlu.
M. Mabire.
M. SchmolL
5.
Mlle. Jane in
placeof Mile.
Eugenie.
KM·of {
"UeartL"
" Knaw of he&rt8."
" The eight."
{
" Diamonds."
Kiflg 0/ cltlbs " The nine."
" Spades."
Sewn of fl'
EigAto/ tl'
{
" Knave of hearts."
" Eight of he&rt8."
" Sewn of he&rt8."
{
" King of spades."
" ClubB."
" Nine of clubB."
"Of diamonds."
I
seven 0/cltlbs {:: 1~a:t~earta."
Qruen oj " Eight of apadtlll."
{
"ClubB."
5. " King of 8jxultlll."
~le. Eugenie l {"I have the idea of
In place of s des"
Mile.Marthe.. ,,1J!ot" spades or of
ElgAt 0/Aeart hearls."
"It is Aearls-I stick
to it."
Digitized by Coogle
200 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
December 10, 1887 (c:ontinmti).
NO. 01
TRIAl
PERCIPIElfT. AOEIITS. CdD CHOSEN. RESULT.
6. 1 {" King of apades."
Mme. D. in Ace oj hear" " Nine of IU!ar","
addition to " Ten of club&."
above, and
1M M. Schmoll. afterward a Nine ofheam " Nine of luam."
M. Pierre
Uvia. { "Seven of hearts."
Seven ofIIJHldeII "Club.."
" Ace of clubs."
{"ClUbs...
Eight of d'mdtJ " Knave of clubs."
" Clnbs."
105 M. Pierre. 6. Nine of clubtJ " Ten of s es...
{ " 1\'ine of heart&."
" Seven of7ubtJ."
Queen of cluh.
{ " King of spadea."
" Eiglit of clUN."
" Ace of heart&."
rDiamonda."
Sewn of hearfj "The ten."
" Beam."
" It is the tJeWft."
106 M. Mabire. 6. f'ClUh....
Nine of clubtJ "The ten."
" Ace of apadea."
Sewn of d'md., {" Diaff/.01Uh."
" It is the tJeWn. ..
/
{ "Knave of heara."
Nine ofclubtJ " Hearts."
"The queen."
10'1 Mme. D. 6. f"Ten of ar;:!es."
Sewn of clubtJ "Queen 0 apades."
"Spadea."
King of d'mdtJ {" Ace of diarnorttV."
"King ofdiamonds.II
Queen ofhear~ " Queen of hw.rllJ."
Set16R of clubtJ
{" Knave of spades."
6. " Queen of spades."
108 Mlle. Jane. "Spades."
{" Hearts."
Ten of d'md8 " Some ten."
.. Ten of spadea...
1 The fact that the arrival 01 M. Pierre should have raiaed the number of agent. to
Hven li88liiii to have _pad attention. Neitlaer record mentio... anyone AI leaviDg.
-ED.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 201
December 24, 1887.
NOTE.-All the experiments with card8 (see Nos. 120-125) failed this
evening; the preceding aeries, on the contrary (94 and 9J-IOS), was fairly
good.
JIO.O~
raUL PII1lCIPJEIIT. ~OL'ITS. c.uuJ CHOSEN. RESULT.
Ace of Marl8
J"Ace of spades."
S. " Clubs."
M. Schmoll. lItClubs."
Mme. D.
Mlle. Jane. {" Knave of spadu."
120 Mme. Schmoll. Mlle. Eugenie. Niru of spades " Ace of hearts."
M. Mabire. "Hearts."
M. Isidore
Bonvier. rDiamonds."
M. Pierre King of d'mtl " Hearts."
Levis. " Always red."
M.S.
{"Hearts."
Ace of d'ma. " The seven."
" The nine."
121 MIle. Jane. 8. Kna.of~
{"CIUL8."
Mme. Schmoll
" It is apadu."
in place of
"Is it not the queen?"
Mlle. Jane. {" Hearts."
Eight of clubl "Spades."
.
Ace of clubl " Queen of hearts."
{" Hearts."
"Red."
{" Red."
122 M. Isidore Bon· S. .Niru of d'mds "Knaveofdiamonda."
vier. Mlle. Jane in "Queenofdiamonds."
tlace of M.
sidore. {"Black."
Eight of Mare, " Spades."
" Queen of spades."
{''Queenofdiamonds."
Ten of spade, " Diamonds."
" The ten." .
King of d'mds
{ " Knave of hearts."
S. " Ten of clubs."
123 Mme.D. M. Isidore in "Always clubs."
~Iace of
me. D.
CClU"'."
Ace of Maru
"AI way 8 b Ia ck,
~es, or clubs."
" ine of spades."
Digitized by Coogle
202 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
December 24, 1887 (continued).
NO.OP
PERCIPIENT. AGBImI. C.LIlD CHOSSN. RDULT.
TRIAL
{COKnave of spades."
King of clvb8 " It is clvb8.'
"The ace."
r Quem of clubs."
124 M. Schmoll. S. Queenojapadu " Nme of hearts."
Mme. D. in " Ten of diamonds."
~of M.
moll. {"..,..of_-
King of club8 " Knave of clvb8."
"It is the knave of
clvb8."
r King of hearts."
Quem ojclvb8 "Knaveofdiamonds."
ee Sevenofdiamonds...
r~es."
125 Mlle. Eug6nie. S. .seven oj d'mda " even of spades."
M. Schmoll "Queen of spades."
in place of
rCIUbs."
Mlle.Eug6nie
AC4l of apadu " Eight of apadu."
" Nine of hearts."
Thus it is seen that there were 48 experiments in this series. But &8 each
one allowed of several responses, independent of one another, each of th_
responses is regarded &8 having been made to a separate order or appeal, and it
is evident that to render an exact acc01lnt of the results, one muat presuppoee
an equal number of orders or appeals and responses, and compare to this
number that of the coincidences obtained. Looked upon in this manner, the
following is the result :-
139 Order8. 139 Ruponau.
2 Success811 complete in one f'U1JOJI8tJ, not preceded
by mistakea (Nos. 1042 and lOSI)
Success complete in one response, preceded by a
mistake (No. lOiS)...
2 Successes complete in two reaponae8, not preceded
by mistakea (Nos. 991 and 1063) ••.
Success complete in two reBpOOlu, preceded by
two mistakes (No. 1061) •••
Total 6 SUCC8BBeR complete in ...
Partial Coincidel1cea
Failures ...
MENTAL COMMANDS.
2 Respon-.
..
4 ..
2 ..
9 ..
40 ..
90
= 139
We have made several trials of this description, but only five of them have
been recorded.
The experiment consisted in causing the percipient to execute an order.
Digitized by Coogle
E~nts in Thought-Tramference. 203
given to him mentally by the agent&. For this pU~OI8, the agents (while the
percipient was in the bedroom) had a previous consultation as to the order to
be given. When this was concluded the percipient was recalled and sat down
in a chair. The agents ranged themselves, standing, behind the chair, and
IDillMl with all their might that this order, mentally given to the percipient,
ehouJ.d be executed.
N~19,1887•
• 0. OJ
PEBClPIBNT. AGENTS. COMMAND. llDULT.
ftlU
89 Mlle. Eug~nie. 3. To raise both (After 10 minutes.)
M. Mabire. arms, and to Movement of the
M. Schmoll. join her band!! right arm; ten·
Mme. Schmoll. abo"e herhead dency to clench the
in the attitude fist; rifht arm
of prayer. severa times
slightly raised.
90 Mlle. Euftnie 3. To throwaway (After 10 minutes.)
(blindfo dedI. Same as No. 89. her handker· Movement of the
chief. arms, without any
resemblance to the
given order.
MIle. Eug~nie, when she knew what the order had been, said that for an
instant she bad had an idea of throwing away her handkerchief, but as she had
covered her eyes ,with it, she had not followed up the impulse, for fear of
making a mistake.
N~26,1887.
110.0' PJUlCIPIEl'IT. AOEN1!l. COMKIIAND. RESULT.
TBUJ.
(After seven or eight
minutes.)
93 Mlle. Jane. 6. To give her .. I know that I have
Mme.D. hand to all to do 80mething
Mlle. Marthe. present. with my hands-"
Mme. Schmoll. .. What have I got
M.S. to do with my
M. Mabire. hands?"
M. Schmoll. .. I feel inclined to
clap my hands."
"Ou~ht I to join
my lands!"
MIle. Jane had not perceived that she was to gi'lJe us her hand.
(At the beginning of the experiment, she asked if she were not to lift the
candles oft" the piano; this was doubtless the reminiscence of a former experi-
ment, which had just been spoken of.)
Digitized by Coogle
2040 E.cperim~nt8 in Thought-Transference.
February 15, 1888.
NO. OF; PERCIPIENT. AGENTS. COMMAND. RESULT.
~I-------------I-------------II-------------I-----------------
139 Mlle. Eugenie. 4.
Mme.D.
Mlle. Jane.
Mme. Schmoll.
M. Schmoll.
(M. Mabire abo
!tent.)
To go and open
the door of the
dining·room.
At the end of six
minutes, Mlle.
Eugenie rose and
asked, .. Am I to
go and play the
piano!"
During this experiment, M. ~chmoll made the miRtake of thinking
abollt.the m;et one, and deciding that he would command ~e percipient to go
and play the piano; but this thought at the most only occupied him a minute.
NO. OF
PERCIPIENT. AGENTS. COlillANO.
I
RESULT.
TRIAL
(After be minutee.)
140 Mlle. Jane. 4. To take a match Indecision; Mile.
Mlle. Eugenie and light it. Jane did not Imow
in place of what she W&8 in·
Mile. Jane. tended to do, and
made several move·
ments without anr
connection with the
given order. One
moment, she
tamed on her chair
to look at the fire,
then she looked at
the chimney.piece
(on which W&8 a
box of matches),
but sbe did Dot
decide upon any
definite a clio D;
at last she said,
.. No, decidedly- I
do not know what
r am to do."
Afterwards, when she knew the order, she said, .. What a pity! I had the
idea of that, but did not think that it W&8 it."
NO.OF
PERCIPIENT. AGENTS. COMII~ND. RESULT.
TRIAL
-
(Six minutes.)
141 Mlle. Jane. 4. To ,0 and Failed.
Same as No. Lui Mme.
140. hmoll's ear.
(Six minutes.)
142 Mlle. Eugenie. 4. To wind up the Failed.
Mlle. Jane in lamp.
~ace of Mlle.
ugenie.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-TranRferen{'e. 205
Several attempts that we made with loto and dominoes did not
succeed at all; the results were not above what might ha,"e been
obtained by chance. We failed equally in some attempts at transmitting
sematiom (touch! taste, smell); but it is only fair to add that this cla.~s
of experiment was a little outside our programme, and we did not
persevere much; still we propose to return to it later on, and to devote
special attention to it, and see whether, by modifying our method, we
may not obtain more satisfactory results.
We would name three conditions as essential to satisfactory
experiments :-
l. Absolute silence.
2. On the part of the agents: concentration of thoughts and looks
on the object to be guessed, and firm determination that it shall impress
itself upon the percipient's mental vision.
3. On the part of the percipient: complete covering of the eyes,
but on no account pressure upon them; perfect calm and an easy
position.
Thus the agents have to aim, with all the persistence of which
they are capable, at the accomplishment of their task, and to guard
against extraneous thoughts which would distract them from their
mental labour; while the percipient, on his side, cannot sufficiently
guard against all cerebral activity; he must carefully· deny all free
range to his ideas and imagination, and concentrate his endeavours
on seizing the impressions or completing the rudiments of those which
present themselves to his mental vision.
These conditions are essential-fundamental, and should never be
lost sight of; but they are not of thElmselves sufficient,. and alone will
not guarantee success. It is also indispensable that those who take
part in the experiments should not be predisposed towards any plan or
theory (no secret hope of failure, for example); that they should
interpret the results without bias, but also without exaggerated
scepticism; that they should be animated by 1\ sincere desire to
discover the truth, whatever it may be, and resolved to throw into the
work the energy that do~s not recoil in the face of difficulty, the
perspicacity that apPl"eciates the force of the smallest incident, and the
patience that is not discouraged by a failure, or a whole series of
fsilures. If these conditions be united with those already mentioned,
success will be approximately certain. 1
We think we to have shown that certain natures are endowed
with a. very marked predisposition to thought-transference, while
1 Our experience in England is very far indeed from bearing out thia statement,
and tends rather to show that the poese8,ionin any high degree of the gift of .. agency"
and of .. percipience" is decidw.ily rare.-Eo.
206 Ea;perilrnents in Tho'Ught-Tramjert:nce.
in others the accomplishment of it is only attained with difficulty.
Nevertheless,it appears possiblethat in the latter case it is rather thewant
of sympathy with this class of foots than the absence of natural
disposition that prevents success. It would be interesting to know
whether the percipient's faculty for receiving images and ideas emitted
by the agents is capable of progressive development; but our
experiments so far do not justify us in pronouncing on that point.
A. SCHMOLL.
Paris, February 18th. J. E. MABIRE.
NOTB.-I did not take part in the experiments numbered 133, 134, 135, 139.
140, 141, 142, 143, and 144.-J. B. M.
STATEMENT FROM MLLE. EUGENIE P.
The following are my impressions, when I take the part of
percipient in thought-transference:-
r do my best to banish any thought that might distract me, anti I
watch for the appearance. It is not always possible for me quite to
renounce thought and volition. The least ray of light being sufficient
to interfere with my perception, I cover my eyes with a handkerchief,
over which I put my hands; in this position I perceive better if I keep
my eyes open under the cover.
After about a minute there appears a circle, lit up as though by
magnesium, in which are to be seen figures of more or less distinctness;
sometimes there are so many of them that I do not know which to
sketch. It has happened in unsuccessful cases (I cannot explain how),
that having once seen the right figure, I have been deceived by others
which have followed, and appeared with greater distinctness.
These experiments render me very nervous; my arms are agitatod
by a trembling like that produced by electricity or magnetic passes.
My hearing becomes extremely sensitive, and the least sound is in-
supportable. In order to be certain that my imagination and my eyes
played no part in the perception of the images, I made an experiment
alone, in the same way as though the agents had heen present. I then
saw absolutely nothing.
EUGENIE P.
Paris, February 18th, 1888.
STATEMENT FROM MLLE. JANE D.
Whenever I have taken part in the experiments as percipient, I
have endeavoured to expel from my mind all thoughts and images, and
Digitized by Coogle
have remained inactive, with my hands over my eyes, waiting for the
production of an impression; sometimes I have tied up my eyes, but this
plan has not always been successful. At other times the idea of an
object has presented itself to me before I have seized its form, but
most frequently I seemed to see the picture either black OR a white
ground, or white on a black ground. In general. the objects present
themselves in an undecided manner, and pass away very rapidly;
lI8Ually I only grasp a portion of them. •
Whenever I ha.ve been most successful, I have remarked that the
picture has presented itself to my imagina.tion almost instantaneously.
Sometimes also I have been led to draw an object of which the name
was forced on me, as if by some external influence.
JANB D.
Paris, February 17th, 1888.
Digitized by Coogle
208 Experirnenta in Thought-Tmnsfe1·ence.
Appended are a few facsimiles of the most successful of the above
results, reproduced in the original size.
No. 51.-ORIGINAL. No. 5L-RBl'RODucnON.
No. 53.-0RIGJJlAL. No. 53.-RuRODUarIOIf
Digitized by Coogle
Ea:periments in TluYught-Transference. 209
No. 1i6.-0BlonrAL.
No, Ii6.-RKPBOD170T10N.
p
Digitized by Coogle
210 Experi'1lunts in TlUYught-Transference.
No. fi8.-QBIGUIAL. No. !i8.-RKPBODUlmOIl'.
( s
No. 66.-QBIGUIAL.
No. 66.-RKl'BODUOTIOlf.
Digitized by Coogle
Experilrnent8 in ThQught-Transference. 211
L
6
No. 92.-0BlOI1lAL.
'\: ;;::J~
~ :7
\ :7
No. 92.-&nBODtlarJOII.
p 2
Digitized by Coogle
212 EflPeriments in Thou,ght-Trans/erttnee.
No. 96.-0BIOINAL.
No. 96.-REP'BODUO'l'lON.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 213
No. 113.-0RlGINAL.
No. 113.-RKpRoDocrIoN.
Digitized by Google
214 Eaperiments in Th01J1Jht-Transference.
No. 116.-0RIGINAL.
No. 116.-REPROOUCTION.
Digitized by Google
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 215
No. 138.-OBIQINAL.
, \
~
No. 138.-Ral'JIoDt1OTJON.
Digitized by Ie
216 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
IV.
HYPNOTISM AND TELEPATHY.
By EDMUND GURNEY.
DEFINITION OF HYPNOTIC TRANCE.
§ 1. It is difficult to get a satisfactory definition of what constitutes
"hypnotic trance." If we begin at the bottom of the scale-with
animals that have been subjected to certain processes of fixation and
manipulation-the only phenomena open to observation are immobility
and aDll!sthesia; animals present nothing corresponding to what I have
called the "alert stage" 1 -less accurately, I think, described as the
somnambulic stage-of hypnotism. It would be pedantic, perhaps, to
refuse to call. their state one of hypnotisation, when it has been
produced by means similar to those employed to hypnotise human
beings, and when their condition appears analogous to the deeper or
comatose stage of human trance; still it would obviously be impossible
to accept immobility and anresthesia as affording a sufficient definition
of a hypnotic condition, for at that rate a deeply chloroformed patient
would be "hypnotised." And when we turn to human beings, there
seem to be strong reasons against taking the ground of definition from
any physical symptoms. Analgesia, diminished sensibility of the 0011-
junctiva., &c., are not distinctive, and are not constant. Increased
muscular irritability and catalepsy are frequently absent in "subjects "
who manifest the most interesting psychical phenomena; moreover,
these muscular peculiarities are common to certain affections generally
called hypnotic and to certain affections generally called hysterical, and
for no purpose is a definition of hypnotism more needed than to dis-
tinguish it from morbid affections-to preserve a state whose most
interesting features may be observed at a minute's notice in strong and
healthy young men, from any necessary association with the idea of
lesion or chronic instability. "Inhibition of inhibitory functions" is
the sufficient, though clumsy, description of the immediate ground of
many hypnotic phenomena., including mechanical imitations of gesture,
mechanical continuance of particular muscular movements, and
diminished reaction-time; but this ground is clearly too general to
found a definition upon-the same sort of inhil>ition being involved in a
1 See Proc«aing. of the S.P.R., Vol. II., p. 62.
igitized by Goog
Hypnotism and Telepathy. 217
minor degree in all manner of circumstances of absorbed attention or
sudden shock. It appears to me that the only serviceable definition
must depend on the idea of what I have ventured in a fonner paper
(Procudings, Vol. II., p. 268) to call "psychical reflex action." That
is to say, I should confine the term "hypnotic trance" to a state in
which (or in some stage of which) inhibition reaches the higher inhibi-
tory and co-ordinating faculties; and particular ideas, or groups! of
ideas, readily dissociating themselves from their normal relation to
other groups /!ond to general controlling conceptions, and throwing off
the restraint proper to elements in a sane scheme, respond with
abnormal ,igour and certainty to any excitations that may be a~dressed
to them. Such response may be shown (1) in the inhibition, by
command, of ordinary muscular movements or control of movements;
(2) in the ease with which the "subject's" mind can be steered, so to
speak, in the course of conversation or narration; but chiefly (3) in the
ready imposition, by external suggestion, of sensory hallucinations, or (4)
of abnormal lines of conduct. This psychical characteristic (educible, if
not actually educed, in the "subject"-see Proceedings, Vol. JI.,pp. 62-3)
has belonged to nearly all the cases which have been described as
hypnotic, and, in a marked degree, scarcely to any others; for only by
the rarest exception does it occur spontaneously in morbid cases. As
thus defined, moreover, hypnotism is conveniently marked off from the
natural condition-somnambulism-to which it is most akin. And the
dE'finition has the further advantage of emphasising what are not only
the most constant but also decidedly the most important and instructive
of the hypnotic phenomena.l For in every branch of mental and
moral science-psychology, ethics, jurisprudence and, we may add, the
extraordinary therapeutical applications of .. suggestion "-the interest
of hypnotism, of which every year witnesses a marked advance, has
centred in the various forms of mono-ideism embraced under the con-
ception of "psychical reflex action."
THE MODES OF' GENESIS OF' HYPNOTIC TRANCE-
USUALLY PHYSICAL.
§ 2. Now all this interest has to do, of course, with the state itself,
not with its genesis. The facts studied are peculiarities of mental
condition which appear after the induction, by whatever means, of a
certain stage of hypnotic trance. Questions connected with the means
by which the trance may be induced have held for the psychologist a
subordinate position: he has at most attempted to supplement the
1 Such a definition of the trance proper need not, of course, prevent us from
applying hypnotic terma to local affections-such as the rigidity or amllsthesia of a
Binglelimb-which are brought about by means similar to thOlle ulled in the production
of truce.
igitized by Goog
218 HYP"wtism and Telepathy.
ordinary physiological doctrines IIJ! to the effect of "fixation" and
"monotonous stimulation" by the conception of " attention "-an
attempt which has been misleading, in so far as it has implied that
attention on the part of the "subject" (who lDay be an infant or a
cray-fish) is a general condition of hypnotisation. Certain recent
events, however, have given special importance to this topic of trance-
induction or "hypnogeny," 1 and have raised in a startling form the
question of the efficacy of psychical influence as a hypnogenetic agent.
And this question naturally connects itself with a more general inquiry
respecting "specific influence" and "mesmeric rapport" - topics
which in a. former paper I noticed only to avoid, as not at that time
coming within the most extended linlits of scientific recognition, but
which analysis may perhaps rob of some of their mystery, and which
I am now at least justi6ed in having described as lying" in the direct
path of orthodox hypnotic experiment."
In the paper just referred to I dwelt on the fact that the various
.processes by which hypnotic trance may be induced-whether regarded
in their p/,ysical aspects, as fixation of the eyes or gentle peripheral
stimulation, or in their psychical aspects, as expectation or attention-
d!) little or nothing to explain the condition which ensues, inasmuch as
nothing that we know, outside hypnotism, would have led us to predict
that the results would follow the processes; so that the "profound
nervous change," which Braid proclaimed as the immediate cause of
the results, has still to be accepted as an ultimate fact. And I further
drew attention to the peculiarity thlJ.t the production of this profound
nervous change seems, in the first instance, always to require some
distinct p/,ysical stimulation;2 though, after it has once been induced
the mere idea of it, associated with that of the original hypnotiser-e.g.,
if he gives the command" Dorfl'&ez I"_may be enough to cause its re-
currence. So far as I am aware, no distinctly hypnotic condition has
ever been originally induced by a mere idea or a merely emotional
stimulus. No doubt a favourable attitude of mind on the part of an
exceptionally sensitive "subject" may so prepare the organism, and
the physical stimulus that supervenes may be of so simple and ordinary
a kind, that its essential part in the result is liable to be overlooked.
Thus it is said of certain French "subjects" that a moment's fixation
of attention, followed by a command to sleep, has proved effecth·e
1 Thill term is not a happy one, &8 it C8ntains no indication of the fuadamental
difference between hypnotic trance and ordinary sleep; but it is difficult to think of
a tolerable subetitute.
2 An example recorded by Eadaile, who professes to have hypnotised a bliDd IlIAD
for the first time by steadily gazing at him from a distance of 20 yard.. would appear
to be an exception. I admit tbe force of Eadaile's testimony; but tbe acco11Jlt was
not written till after hI> had frequently hypnotised tbe man, and it Beems poaible that
his memory betrayed him &8 to tbe circumatancee of the first experiment.
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnoti..H1n (mel Telepntlty. 219
even on a first occasion; and it may then seem reasonable to refer
the change of state to the mere idea of sleep, or to the expectancy
of a sudden change as soon as the command was given. But the idea
of Bleep had been present for BOme time, without the e1fect being p~
duced; I, at any rate, know of no instance where precautions were
taken to keep the " subject" entirely ignorant of the intended trial up
to the moment that it was made. And if it were enough to be
expectant of a sudden change when the command came, the change
ought equally to supervene if the operator gave his command
silently, e.g., by means of the" dumb alphabet." Till BOme such case
is recorded, we seem justified in attributing this sudden change to the
tJUd~y presented new element-i.e., the arresting sound of the
opemtor's voice. When the "subject" is of " specially unstable
constitution, the condition of expectancy may be wholly dispensed
with, and a rather stronger stimulus-a distinct shock-will then be
necessary; but always of a physical sort. The mental shock of
surprise or terror may, as we all know, produce temporary paralysis
of motor power and other physical effects; but the only shocks which
have been followed by the characteristic phenomena of hypnotic
trance have been those due to a sudden loud BOund or sudden bright
light. Jt is worth remarking, by the way, that the state produced
in this way is always that of catalepfI]J, not that of letllargy, which is the
more common first stage of hypnotism. The difference between
these two states has. I believe, been considerably exaggerated by the
school of the Salpatriere; but BO far as they really differ, it is of
interest that the direct production of either should equally lead on
to that unbam.nced but potentially active mtontal condition in which
the characteristic BOmnambulic phenomena present themselves. For
this suggests that the unbalancing depends not so mU\lh on the
special nature as on the suddenness of the change; and that the
BOmnambulic phenomena may be liable to appear after any very rapid
shifting of the level of consciousness, which does not, like ordinary
Bleep, sink the reason below the point where attention can be
attracted to imposed hallucinations and commands, and which is not,
like the passage into ordinary sleep, checked and transformed at
once to normal wakefulnesa by eXternal' solicitations. It would, at
any rate, be worth inquiry whether there is any stage in the path
to unconsciousness, as produced by ordinary anlllSthetic agents, during
which the well·known phenomena of hypnotic suggestion could be in
some degree produced.
ANOTHEE MODE OP GBNESIS-THB PSYCHICAL; ILLUSTRATBD BY
"SOMMBIL ..\ DISTANCB."
§ 3. But however that may be,the hypnotism which we know-where
Digitized by Coogle
220 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
the change is independent of toxic substances and is comparatively
stable when once induced-will always retain its peculiar character.
And the tendency of recent inquiry has been, on the whole, to give
further emphasis and precision to the view which would confine original
hypnogenetic efficacy to special peripheral excitations, either of the
organs. of sp!,cial sense or applied in the way of pressure to special
points or tracts on the body. The reason of the specific cerebral
change. the course of the nervous discharges which issue in the inhibi-
tion of central control, or in the various muscular peculiarities which
hypnotised persons present,-these are as unknown as ever j but the
known points of attack by which the central citadel can be reached
have multiplied j and where sensitiveness reaches a certain point, the
opemtor can bring about a series of well·marked modifications of the
trance-condition by physical manipulation, with almost as much
certainty as the organist can manipulate his stops.! Tho very latest
advance, however, would seem, at first sight, to have been in exactly
the opposite direction, and to suggest a mode of affection in which no
part is played either by peripheral stimulus, or by suggestion and
expectancy tending, through association, to re-induce a state induced
in the first instance by reripheral stimulus. I refer to the recently
recorded French succ~sses in the production of 80mmeil adistance-
hypnotic trance due to the concentration of the hypnotiser's will with-
out the "subject's" knowledge, and altogether beyond the range of
the "subject's" senses. Not that this form of experiment is by any
means new: the history of hypnotism~r mesmerism. as in this con-
nection it has been more often called-has presented a good many
sporadic instances of such distant effectB.2 But even had the earlier
reports been given with complete detail and with ample corroboration
(which has rarely been the case), it is inevitable that facts so startling,
and so alien to scientific preconceptions, should depend for their accept-
ance almost entirely on contemporary evidence; and this being so, the
recent well-attested cases are of extreme importance. They have in-
deed an importance over and above that which attaches to them in
their hypnotic character. For they form a species in a general class of
affections extending far beyond the limits of hypnotism, and embracing
every sort of impression made by one person on another otherwise than
through the recognised channels of sense. To such impressions the
convenient term telepathy has been appropriated. And inasmuch as
hypnotism, being a physiological and in some respects a medical
curiosity, has a specially good chance of attracting the notice of trained
1 Seeespecia\lyDr. A. Pitre's De. ZOflU H1I8tirogh&e. uHlIPMfIUie. (Bordeaux,l885).
2 Phanta""" of tke Lj"ing, Vol. I., p. 88; Vol. II., pp. xxvi. and 619-87. For
another di8CU8sion of the 8ubject see Mr. F. W. H. Myera'. paper on "Telepathic
Hypnotism," in the Procuding. of the S.P.R., Vol. IV.
Digitized by Coogle
HY'fYMtimn and Telepathy. 221
observera to its various phases, it would not be surprising if the
phenomena of distant trance-induction were the first branch of tele-
pathy to win the confident and general adhesion of scientific men; as
indeed they might have done many years ago, but for their associa.tion
with tha wild theories and grotesque pretensions of II mesmerists." It
is probable also that France will continue to be the principal sc;,lne of
these interesting observations; partly owing to a spirit of disengaged-
ness and openness to new ideas, which seems specially to characterise
the medical faculty of that country, but chiefly because the .French
temperament appears to be on the whole decidedly more susceptible
than the English to hypnotic affections, just as Esdaile found the
Hindoo to be; and there being a larger percentage of good II subjects "
to work with, it may naturally be expected that among them will be
found the rarm aws on whom the demonstration of the ~ore delicate
hypnotic phenomena must depend.
The first three cases, originally published in the RIJV'U6 Philosophique,
for February and April, 1886, have been already desc~bed in these
ProcudingB (Vol. IV., pp. 28-38); but it may be convenient to
supply here a short abstract of them.
(1) The first cue is from Prof8lllOr Pierre Janet, of Havre, who obeerved
it in conjunction with Dr. Gibert. the leading physician of that town. The
"subject," Madame B., was an honest and simple pe'\ll&nt-woman, enjoying
good health, though liable, from childhood, to fita of IOmnambulism. Dur-
ing a stay at Havre, in the autumn of 1885, she proved easy to hypnotile,
and at once showed in various ways a marked rapport with the person who
had hypnotised her. For inBtaBce, while she was in the .. deep state," in-
aeuble to all ordinary stimuli, the contact or proximity of the hypnotiaer'1
hand would induce in her partial or general contractures, which a light touch
from him could again remove-no one elee being able to produce either
efFect in the ellghtest degree. Alter about ten minutes of deep trance Ihe
would pall into the" alert" or IOmnambulic state, from which ahe could
be wakened into the normal state by the operator, and by him alone. It
was further noted that the hypnotiaation was difficult or impol8ible unl818
the operator concentrated his thoughte on the deeireC result. VariOUI ex·
perimenta in thougbt-tranBference were completely sUcceBBful: they took
the form of Itrongly willing, during Madame B.'I trance, that she Mould do
IIOme quite unlikely thing at a particular hour, the mental command bein,
&I punctually obeyed as if it had been expresaed in words.
The attempta at producing IOmmeU a diatance were sUggelted by the
discovery already mentioned of the need that the operator'l will Ihould
oo-operate in the hypnotic proc8l8. It was then found that the will alone
was lufficient. ~'Prel8Ure of Madame B.'Ihand, without the idea of entranc-
ing her, was inefFectual ; but the idea without the prel8ure IUCCeeded per-
fectly." The next ltep was for Dr. Gibert to make the attempt when in
another part of the town, and at a moment lelected not by himself but by
M. Janet or another friend. On two of theae occasions M. Janet found
Digitized by Coogle
222 Hyznwtis7n and Telepathy.
Madame B. in a deep trance, from which only Dr. Gibert could wake her;
on a third occasion she had felt the strong impulse to sleep, but had opposed
it by putting her hands into cold water.
A series of succe88es of the same kind were obtained in the spring of
1886 ; three of which, witnessed by Mr. F. W. H. Myers and Dr. A. T.
Myers, are described in the paper of the former referred to in
last footnote. On one of these occasions Dr. Gibert, on the other
two M. Janet, was the hypnotiser; and on each of the three the
.. subject" seemed clearly to recognise to which influence she had been
exposed. Of this second series M. Janet writes that. putting aside mental
suggestions of trance made in the presence of the .. subject" in an adjoin·
ing room, •• the triala made at a distance of at least 500 metres from Madame
B. 's abode amount to 21. I do not count a trial made in the middle of the
night, under unfortunate conditions; and I count as failures aU experi-
ments where the •subject' WaB not found entranced on our entering her
abode, or where the trance did not follow the mental sUgiestion within a
(lUarteI of an hour. These failures (each of ..hich may admit of a complete
explanation) were six in number. There remain. then. 15 precise and
complete succC88t>s-extraordinary coincidences, whatever interpretation of
them we choose to adopt." During this period, Madame B. did not fall into
a trance on any other occasion than those mentioned.
(2) The next account is from Dr. J. Hericourt, one of M. Richet's ablest
&88istants in the editing of the Revue &ienti.fi~"e. The observations were
made and recorded in 1878. though not published till last year, pour lUa
rai8<nl.3facilell a compre1idre. The" subject "-Madame D.-was a young
widow, in whom no trace of hysteria could be discovered. M. Hericourt
found her exceedingly easy to hypnotise. and after about a fortnight could
entrance.her by his will alone, exercised without any word or gesture, and
sometimes while Madame D. was in the midst of an animated convel'Mtion
with other persons. On the other hand, he found that aU the ordinary
physical proce88es remained completely ineffectual if his will 11'88 not that
the trance sh:lUld ensue. He soon began t-o extend the distance between
himself and his" sUbjact." and instead of producing the effect frolJ'l one
comer of a room to another, he could produce it from one houle or one
street to another. The first trial from a distant street was specially in-
teresting. While concentrating his thoughts on the desired effect. at three
p. m., Dr. Hericourt was summoned to see some patients, and for a time
forgot all about Madame D. He then remembeI-ed that he was engaged
to meet her on the promenade at 4.30, but not finding ber, he be-
thought him tha~ possibly his experiment had succeeded, and towards
five o'clock he vigorously willed that ·she should wake. In thp
evening Madame D., spontaneously. and without his having made the
slightest allusion to har absence from the promenade, informed him
that about three o'clock she had been suddenly seized by an irreaisti-
ble inclination to go to sleep, though she never slept in the day-
time. It was all she could do to walk into another room, where she fell 011
a sofa, and was afterwards found by a servant cold and motionlC88, eomme
nwrle. The servant shook Madame D. vigorously, but could not make her do
more than open her eyes. All that Madame n. remembered experiencing at
Hypnotism and Telepathy. 223
this time was a violent headache, which disappeared towardB five o'clock, the
hour when M. Hericourt willed the undoing of his work.
ThiB experiment was the first of a Beries, during which a number of per-
IIOnll had the opportunity of arranging the conditions and testing the re-
aults. The hypothesis of expectant attontion W&8 doubly excluded ; for if
M. Hericourt gave Madame D. notice of his intention to entrance her, but
actually willed that she should remain awake, Bhe retained her normal con-
dition, and imagined that he had failed.
(3) The next C&Be, contributed by Dr. E. Gley, of:fl, Rue Claude BernArd,
Paris, is a record of some obsenations of his friend, Dr. Dusart. publillhed
in the Trilnme Medicak, in May, 1875. The" subject It W&8 a hysterical
girl of 14, whom Dr. Dusart found very susceptible to hypnotlllm.
He early remarked that hia passeB were ineffective if his attention was
not Btrongly directed to the desired result; and this suggested to him to try
the effect of purely mental suggestion. One day, before the usual hour for
. waking the patient had arrived, he gave her the mental command to awake.
The effect was instantaneous; the patient woke, and again, in I\ccordance
with his will, began her hysterical screaming. He took a seat with hill bl\ck
tJ her, and conversed with other persons, without appearing to pay I\ny
attention to her; but on hiB silently giving her the mental suggeMtioll to fall
again into the traT.ce, his will W&8 again obeyed. More than lOO ex-
periments of the 80rt were made under various conditions, and with uniform
success. On one occasion Dr. Dusart left without giving his usual order to
tl:e patient to sleep till a particular hour next morning. Remembering the
omission, he gave the order mentally, when at a distance of 700 metres from
the hOWle. On arriving next morning at 7.30, he found the patient asleep,
&Ild &8ked her the reason. She replied that ahe Wa.& obeying hill order. He
said; "Youarewrong; I left without giving you any order." "True,"
she said, " but fiveminutos afterwards I clearly heard you tell me to sleep
till eight o'clock." Dr. Dusart then told the patient to sloop till ahe re-
ceived the command to wake, and directed her parents to mark the exact
hour of her waking. At 2 p.m. he gave the order mentally, at a distance
of I!e\'en kilometres, and found that it had been punctually obeyed. This.
experiment was lIucce88fully repeated sevoral times, at different hours.
After a time Dr Dusart discontinued his visits, altd the girl's father used
to hyPDotise her instead. Nearly a f.'rtnight after this change, it occurred
to Dr. Dusart. when at & distance of 10 kilometres, to try whether he still re-
tained his power, and he willed that the patient should not allow herself to
be entranced; then after half-an-hour, thinking that the effect might be bad
for her, he removed the prohibition. Early next morning he was surpris4>d
to receive & letter from the father, IItating that on the previoull day he had
only succeeded in hypnoti8ing his daughtor after & probnged and painful
struggle; and that, when entranced, she had declared that her resistance
had been due to Dr. Dusart's command, and that she had only succumbed
when he permitted her.
(4) The fourth case consists of the experiments described by Professor
Richet in the paper printed above (pp. 32-(3).
224 HY'P'Mtillm and Telepathy.
THE PSYCHICAL GENESIS A FORM OF "SUGGESTION."
§ 4. In regarding such distant effects as these, it was of course in-
evitable, from the first, that an effort should be made to connect them
with the similar effects produ.:ed by the hypnotiser in the presence of
his" subject" ; and in the pre-scientific days of hypnotism this was
easy enough. The prevalent view of hypnotic effects, among those
who believed them to be genuine, was that they were produced by a
specific " magnetic" or " mesmeric" force or effiuence, which radiated
from the person of the operator in obedience to his will; and as it is
easy to credit unknown agencies with incomprehensible attributes, the
idea of this one as able to act at a distance without any loss of in-
tensity was accepted as needing no particular justification. If such a
peculiarity prevented the mesmeric force from being correlated in any
way with the forces known to physicists, that would appear to its
champions as 80 much to its credit. Not that I regard the idea of a
specific hypnogenetic influence of a physical sort as absurd-I shall
recur later to the question of such an influence acting within narrow
limits of space; and even as regards its operation at any distance
and across any obstacles, something might be said for a hypothesis
which at least had the merit of recognising the telepathic facts, as long
as no alternative was possible. This, however, is no longer the case.
A conception which, in its simple and comprehensive form, is of very
recent date, and which could never have been educed, free of all con-
fusing elements, from the facts of hypnotism alone-the conception of
thought-transference-has opened the way for another theory. Not one,
indeed-I should most fully admit-for which any certainty or finality
can be claimed; it requires assumptions, and depends largely on
ana.logies; but one which, as an attempt at generalisation, reaches, I
think, a considerable degree of probability in a region of facts 80 new
and balDing that no generalisation can as yet well aspire to more.
To state my view in the shortest way, I believe that hypnotisation
at a distance is truly analogous to hypnotisation in the presence
of the" subject," but to one particular form only of such hypno-
tisation-to wit, that exercised on a "subject" who has been
entranced on previous occasions, by the auggesti<m. (either verbal
or conveyed by the mere physical proximity of the operator)
of the idea of trance. On this view, what happens is that
the idea of the intended effect is transferred from the operator
to the "subject," just as any other idea is transferred when the
mind of A affects the mind of B otherwise than through the recog-
nised sensory channels; and that it then works on the "'iUbject,"
whom previous entrancements have rendered hyper-susceptible to its
influence, precisely in the same way as the word ])ormez works on
Digitized by Ie
HyprwtiBm and Telepathy. 225
him when addressed by the operator to his ears. That is to say, the
trance supervenes owing to the peculiar liability of the "subject"
to react on a particular idea., in fDhauver tIN1.1J that idea may have
gained an entrance to his mind, and not owing to any particular
magnetic force or compulsion exercised by the operator. I hold,
therefore, that the French experimenters have hit on the right word,
tIUfIgaf.i.cm, to doacribe the mode of infiuence-wggaf.ion D~ in
contrast to tIUfIgetltion verbale; the two sorta of suggestion being in
their hypnogenetic power identical, but differing radically in the
earlier atage--in the mode in which the suggestion obtains acceaa to
Ule "subject." The difference is not then (as formerly conceived)
between two modes of propagating "mesmeric" force, by passes
near at hand or "will" at a distance. It lies quite outside hypno-
tism and the particular effect of hypnotic trance. It is a difference
more radical than those who have believed in mesmeric action at a
distance have hitherto imagined, but also leBB mysterious; inasmuch as
this distant infiuence can now be referred to a large general class of
phenomena, fundamentally alike through all varieties of circum-
stance, and in this way confirmatory of one another.l In a word the
di1rerence between verbal suggestion and mental suggestion in
hypnotic C&8eB is simply the difference between the two broad classes
of communication which exhaust all possibilities ofthought-conveyance
between JDII,D and man, and which may be conveniently distinguished
&8 ~he physical and the pB1Jchical.
BEANING OJ' "PSYOHICAL" OOMMUNIOATION.
§ 6. I hasten to explain what I mean by this diatinction, which is
very liable to be misunderstood, though it would be difficult to express
it shortly in any other terms. It is by no means to be taken to imply
the absence of a physical basis for the "psychical" transferences.
The word " psychical" does not involve any hypothesis as to the
manner of transference, whether as connected or as unconnected with
physical events; it implies simply the fact that particular ideas in two
minds have corresponded in such a manner as to lead to the conclu-
sion that they were connected as cause and effect, though the recog-
1 There is at present this difficulty in discuuing any apecial topio where tohe id.,..
«telepathy and thought-transferenoe have to be introduced-that to many readers
the terms may convey no meaning, or may appear simply as symbols of what 111
ridiculous ani impoaaible; while yet it would be hopeleaa to attempt to demGnatrate
$he realities whioh they represent in the ooune of a paper like the preaant. The
laqeat oo1leotion of evidence on the 8ubject which has 80 far been publiahed will
be found in Ph4fItMrM of th.e Livi"l1, and I am here treatmg the central poaitious
of that book as if they were 80lidly established. Feeling, as I do, such conftdenC8
to be j11lltifiable, I refrain from encumbering these pages with apologies for it;
but I am very far indeed from assuming that every candid mind is boad ie share it.
Q
Digitized by Coogle
226 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
niaed channels of sense have not been employed, and there haa been
no peripheral stimulation pa.aaing from one organism to the other.
Now the condition from which we should most readily conclude that
there waa such a cauaa.l connection between the two ideas is clearly that
they should resemble one another. When one organism acta petipher-
ally on another-when A hits B for instance-we connect A's anger
with B's pain without requiring to perceive any resemblance between
the two affections; but apart from a.acertainable physical communica-
tion, it would not occur to us to regard a particular idea. of B's aa due
to a particular idea. of A's, unless they presented at least some point
of identity. And the facts in PAanta8ms of eM Living afford, I
think, strong grounds for supposing such resemblance to be the general
law of telepathic action. In caaea of experimental thought-transfer-
ence the resemblance is obvious and often complete; and the same is
true of those cc transitional" ca.aes where the agent sets himself to
impress some idea. or percept on some one at a distance; while in the
cc spontaneous" cases it is rarely that there is a difficulty in tracing
the effect on the percipient's senses or emotions to an idea. reproduced
(though it may be below the level of consciousness) from the agent's
mind. This at once suggests the particular character which, IItIfJPO'-
ing the psychical tranllference to be dependent on a physical effect of
one organism on the other, that physical effect would naturally be hf'ld
to poaaeaa; it must apparently be of the nature of vibratory energy
transmitted through a medium-that being the only mea.ns by
which changes in one piece of matter are found to reproduee
themselves in a distant piece of matter; and its place of
origination in one organism and place of operation in the
other must be the brain. Whether such a mode of physical
affection exists or not is an open question. The negative answer in-
volves the difficulty that, whenever the psychical transferences occur, a
certain nervous proceaa, correlated with the impressed idea. in the
brain of the recipient, presents a close similarity to II. certain nervoll&
process correlated with the impressing idea. in the b~in of the trans-
mitter, and would not have presented that similarity but for the
transmission, while yet the twin proceaaea are united by no physical
~. The affirmative answer involves the difficulty that distance is
not known to have any effect on the transmission, which is contrary to
what obtains in all known exhibitions of vibratory energy. (Both
homs of the dilemma can of COllrBe be avoided on the supposition that
the accepted view as to the necessary correlation of psychical with
nervous events is only 1\ rough approximation to a more complete
truth, which the limitH.tions of our view of matter and physical forces
keep out of our sight.) But if it exists, this mode of physical affection
is at any rate something per tI6; it is remote from any of the recog-
Digitized by Coogle
HYP'fWtism and Telepathy. 227
niaed modes, to which eyes and ears and nervtl-8ndings are indis-
pensable instruments, and in which the effect on the impru'sG
organism (to wit, certain chemical explosions of nerve and brain-
matter) bears no resemblance whatever, but only a COf"1'BBponclenc6, to
the physical facta-visible or audible, or tactile or olfactory-in the im-
preuing organism. And this difference is so radical that, for purposes
of terminology, the neglect of the hypothetical physical basis, and the
appropriation of the word cc psychical" to transferences where the
psychical facts are patent, while no physical fact of any sort is
cognisable by our senses or our instruments, seems &8 defensible as
it is convenient.
TUB RIVAL HYPOTHESIS OJ' .. PSYOHIO POROB" OR WILIi-POWBR.
§ 6. The above theory has been stated in general outline only, and
needs guarding and amplifying in several ways. But I must first
pause to consider an objection that may be made to it in limine. It,
may be said that, in opposing the conception of thought-transference,
pure and simple, to that of a physical effluence or current of force,
operating across indefinite spaces, and neither nullified nor confused by
other physical effluences or currents proceeding from other human
beings on its route, I have simplified the issue overmuch, and that
there is a third possible hypothesis :-namely, that a force is set in
operation which is truly psychical, in the sense that it originates in the
operator's mind, while its medium of transmission, if it has one,
remains unknown and unguessed, but which is different from and
independent of any known psychical or physical agency; the ultimate
facts being simply that the distant operator willi that the cc subject ..
shall be entranced, and that in consequence he iB entranced, without
any middle term of mental suggestion or anything else. This hypo-
thesis underlies much that has been written about the relation of will-
power to mesmerism; and has been strongly suggested in our own
day in much of the language used about cc psychic force." It is what
Schopenhauer advocated in his description of ,tthe magnetic or
generally magical influence proceeding from intentional willing" ; 1 for
he speaks of this will-influence &8 cc toto g6ntW6 different from every
other"; and ~his although he seems to have encountered and fully
admitted certain facts of mental suggestion proper, having in the
preceding sentence spoken of communicated (telepathic) dreams, and
of community of thought between mesmeriser and cc subject." The
view clearly involves nothing less than a complete breach in the
physical order. The psychical cause and the physical effect on the
organism of another person are &8 completely disparate &8 my resolve to
1 J7w World til Will 11M ltUG (Haldane and Kemp'. tranBlation), Vol. TIl., p. 76.
Q 2
Digitized by Coogle
228 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
kick a chair over and the fallen chair, while no physical flatU,
parallel to the kick, exists between them. Or rather, since the
changes in B's organism, being matters of intimate physiology, are
changes which A, who is supposed to cause them, knows and thinks
nothing about, what he is supposed to do is precisely analogous to
building a stone wall at a distance from where one is standing by an
exercise of the will which involves no idea of moving the stones.
Schopenhauer, indeed, might be able to conceive this as "an actio ita
diatam which the will, certainly proceeding from the individual, yet
performs in its metaphysical quality as the omnipresent substratum of
the whole of nature." But we are not all Schopenbauers; and those
who are unable to reach the substratum of nature with his clue, and to
whom even his "will of the world " appears something of a will-o'-the-
wisp, may feel the difficulty here propounded in rela.tion to the
individual will to be a serious one. At any rate the hypothesis of
a transferred idea which I have advanced, accords, &8 completely aa
Schopenhauer's theory conflicts, with the modem psychological doctrine
of will; according to which, will holds no separate or exceptional ~
lation to those physical events which it habitually initiates and
controls-the movements of one's own body-but is in essence nothing
else than ideation, and has its physical seat wholly in ideational
centres. "When we exert our will" (to quote Professor W. James)
" we simply fill our mind with an idea which but for our efforts would
slip away." And telepathic "suggestion" is simply the transference
of such an idea.
§ 7. I do not pretend, however, that the theory of "psychic force,"
as opposed to that of mental suggestion, need be held in this extreme
metaphysical form. The distant effect might be referred to A'.
volition in virtue, not of its "magical inftuence," but of the cerebration
which accompanies it; and either (1) the cerebral events involved
in B's trance might be held to be directly due, though dissimilar,
to the cerebral events in A, or (2) some prior and equally dissimilar
cerebral event in B, accompanied by some unknown psychosis dissimilar
to A's (e.g., some mood or mode of feeling presenting nothing of the
nature of idea), might be assumed as an intervening link.l As regard.
this notion of an unknown psychosis, if a priori likelihoods had any
application to modes of psychical interaction, one might at any rate
feel it unlikely that terminal events so closely related as B's trance
1 A tmrd alternative is poaaible-that lOme cerebral condition in A (e.g., a certain
iDitia$ary teDdenoy $awards trance in himself) is reproduced in B, without psychoU.
This would .tillleave clear my fundamen*a1 distinction (depending on similarity of
primary effect in recipient to cauae in agent) between telepathic oommunicationa and
all othen. But the re&IOns for regarding paychoais in B &B probable are giV811
a little later.
Digitized by Coogle
H yynotism. and Telepathy. 229
and A's desire for B's tra~ce should be causally connected by an
unknown psychical state resembling neither; but I should be content
to urge that the hypothesis is gratuitous, when we remember that
there is one known psychical state which is known also to lead on
naturally to trance-namely, that idea of trance, the unique effect of
which can be so completely tested by wrbal suggestion. But a graver
objection-aDd one whil'h applies to both the above hypotheses alike-
lies in the nature of the physical assumption. No doubt, it may be
said that anyone who can entertain for a moment the idea of brain
aeting on brain at a distance haa no business with speculative scruples
-that, finding himself upon such unknown ground, he need not
hesitate to go further, and imagine a complete difference between the
physical cause and the physical effect. But even if a needless step
were justified merely by being taken in the dark, we should at least
observe that this particular step breaks away, not only from the analogy
of verbal suggestion, but from the only conception of a physical t'&6:I:U8
which bas in any degree commended the hypothesis of physical com-
munication between brain and brain to scientific minda--the conception
BUggeBted by the analogies of tuning-forks, communicated light-vibra-
tions, induced magnetism, and induced electric currents.1 If that
conception have any validity, to conceive that the brain-cbanges
correlated with the desire of A, who remains normally awake, to
entrance B at a distance, could directly cause the quite different
changes which B's brain undergoes during entrancement, would be
like conceiving a struck tuning-fork aa able to set into vibration a
fork of a different pitch, or the proximity of magnetised iron aa able
to convert a piece of wood into a magnet. And indeed it is hard to
conceive how, if sympathetic action be excluded, one brain should ever
get touch or prile of the other: it is just the sympathetic response
which is the condition of response at all. Why, again, should A's
cerebration have more virtue than anyone elae's, no idea of him
ez AypoIhui being conveyed t His peculiar influence haa been
established entirely by a particular association of ideas in the
"subject's" mind; that is the only part of the hypnogenetic process with
which his personality is identified; and if such a thing existed aa a
specific physical power which would enable that part of the process to
be skipped, and the "subject's" brain to be attaeked in a new way at
1 There are, of C011I'IIII, caBell where vibratory energy does not reproduce, at the
place where it takes effect, the exact form of ita IIOIU'CII: aa where light produces
chemical changea. But when it is remembered that the place of origin and place of
action of the nervous force now in qUfllltion are similar pieoea of matter-the same in
their composition, in their form, and in the energies normally connected with them-
the other analogiflll seem paramonnt; especially when we remember the electrical
character now generally attributed to nerve-currenta.
Digitized by Coogle
230 Hyp1Wtism and Telepathy.
some new or lower point, no ground appears why A and A alone should
po8S8BS it.
It must be clear, I think, how different in kind these objections
a.re from those which were admitted as applying, on the physical
side, to the conception of mental suggestion or thought-transference.
For there, even if we rejected (on account of the distance
between the two brains) the notion of a direct physical ~
~ven if we felt driven to regard the changes in B's brain as
immediately conditioned, not by the change'll in A's brain, but by the
psychical appearance of the idea transferred to B's mind-such con-
ditioning in B would involve only the world-old correlation of
psychical with nervous changes in the individual; a correlation which,
however variously interpreted, is recognised as universal, or at any rate
as the rough expression of some deeper reality which is universal.
THB HYPOTHBSIS 01' "SUGGBSTION" FURTHBR SUPPORTED.
§ 8. So far, then, there appears no very plausible alternative to the
view which finds the key of telepathic hypnotism in actual sugges-
tion, conveyed as a transferred idea from A's mind to B's. But this
view can be reinforced by a further consideration. As a matter of
fact, there is no instance on record (except Eadaile's mentioned before)
of a person's being hypnotised from a distance whom the operator bas
not previously hypnotised by some ordinary process. On the
theory of mental suggestion, this is of course just what we might
expect. Since a person new to hypnotism has never been hyp-
notised for the first time by the mere idea of the trance ver-
bally suggested or read of in a book, it would be remarkable if the
idea when telepathically suggested were able to take effect on him.
But on any theory which excludes mental suggestion, it is difficult to
see how the fact of the" subject's" previous hypnotiaation could
make a difference; for apart from mental suggestion, he would not be
attacked at any special vulnerable point. Such a point consists
simply in the idea of entrancement by A (localised in particular brain-
c~a.nges), which hRoS been specialised and sensitised by association with
the actual fact of such entrancement on previous occasions; and in
the supposed case, 6:J: nypothe8i, no idea of entrancement makes its
appearance. Now, except when attacked at the vulnerable point,
there is no reason why previously-hypnotised persons should be more
liable to be entranced than anyone elae--the existence of the vulner-
able point being simply an explanation of the fact that they are so
liable. Thus, to take another case, if a strong man has felt giddy
and has tottered when standing over the brink of precipices, the idea
of standing over a precipice may afterwards make him feel giddy and
totter; but he is not more given than other people to tottering when
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnotism and Telepathy. 231
wa.lking across the room, and would oppose as much resistance as other
people to an external push. Just 80, apparently, should previously-
hypnotised persons oppose as muqh resistance as their neighbours to the
supposed push or compulsion of an external will,or to other telepathic in-
fluences which differed in cha.ra.cter from anyto which theyhad previously
yielded; 80 that the confinement of the hypnotising effect of such
influences to that particular class of persons would need fresh assump-
tions to explain it.
THB TRANSFBRRBD "SUGGBSTION" INCLUDBS THB IDBA
OF TIlB OPERATOR.
§ Q. We may now proceed to examine the hypothesis of mental sug-
gestion at a distance a little ·more in detail. First, waat are we to
suppose the contents of ~he transferred idea to be 1 The answer will
natura.lly be found by examining the contents of the idea which is
found to be hypnogenetica.lly effective when suggested through the
recognised channels of sense, in the presence of the "subject." And
it at once becomes evident that 80mething more than the mere idea of
trance is included. That idea might be suggested by reading a de-
scription of a hypnotic experiment in a book; it has often been sug-
gested when hypnotic phenomena have been described and discussed by
persons in the sa.me room with the "subject"; but in such circum-
stances it has not been found to produce any effect. Is the additional
condition, then, that the idea sha.ll be suggested with some show of
authority or insistance, as in the tone of the word Dormez 1 But let
someone who has not previously hypnotised the "subject," and
who is in no way connected in the "subject's" mind with the
previous hypnotiser, pronounce such a command as authoritatively
as he likes, and no hypnotic result will follow. I would not
indeed venture to assert that it is impossible that trance should
be thus induced in an extremely sensitive "subject "; but I
cannot discover that it ever ka8 been 80 induced. The necessa.ry
c:ondition then seems to be that the suggestion or command shall come
from the original operator; that is to say, rapport is involved-at
any rate to the extent of memory of a past relation between the two
parties. But here there seems at first. sight, a certain difficulty in
connecting the near (or physical) with the distant (or psychical) sug-
gestion. In the former case the idea of the operator in the "sub-
ject's" mind, and a sense of the past relation with him, is practically
ensured by his actual presence and voice; the "subject" cannot help
associating the command, when it comes, with the person who gives it.
But when the two parties are separated, and the command is tele-
pathically conveyed, there is nothing to connect it in the "subject's"
mind with the person who transmits it, unless an idea suggestive of that
Digitized by Coogle
232 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
person is simultaneously transmitted. Now among the recorded
examples of hypnotisation at a distance we do undoubtedly find a cer-
tain number. where such an idea seems clearly to have been trans-
mitted, since it unmistakably appears in the II subject;s" consciousness.
This was the case with Madame B., who was able to distinguish
whether it was Dr. Gibert or Professor Janet who was affecting her;
and the occasion when Dr. Dusart's "subject" was conscious of his
inhibitory influence may fairly be referred to the same class. But in
other cases the trance-condition supervenes without any conscious
occupation of the" subject's" mind with the person who is influen-
cing him. We might even go further and say that it supervenes
without even the idea of itseifbeing presented as an obviously separate
and prior condition. We cannot, as in cases of verbal suggestion,
point to the moment when the idea obtains lodgment in the mind, and
trace its effects from that moment. The consciousness of the idea, 10
far as it exists, is indistinguishable from the general mental condition
of on-coming trance.
THE lDBA HAY AFFECT AN "UNCONSCIOUS" PART OF THE RBCIPIENT's
MIND, AND NEED· NOT EVEN OCCUPY A PROMINBNT POSITION IN"
THE TRANSMITl'ER'S CONSCIOUSNESS.
§10. Now as regards themere fact that the mental suggestion is tndy
tranaferred, even in the cases where the recipient is not conscious of
it, a proof of the strongest kind is afforded by the cases where he is COD-
scious of it. Itseems almostinconceivablethat experiments intelepathic
hypnotisation, which agree in every point eXt.'Cpt this of the" subject's ,.
conscioWlness, should involve radically different processes. But if we
look a little deeper, this special point-the effectiveness of an idea.
which does not make any separate and distinct impression in con-
sciousness-will probably not be felt as an objection to the theory of
telepathic suggestion by anyone familiar with the phenomena of tele-
pathy in branches unconnected with hypnotism; I might almost say,
by anyone familiar with the phenomena of mere automatism--&inoe
the production by automatic writing of words and intelligentsentences.
which the writer himself has afterwards to read in order to leam what
they are, is a sufficiently well-recognised phenomenon. But in such
cases it can scarcely ever be proved that what is written is originated,
at the moment, by any specially directed mental activity; the ideas
belong, perhaps, to the vast crowd which have had II. previous exist-
ence in the mind, and have left their impression on the brain, and it is
merely owing to some accident of cerebral circulation or chemistry
that the impressions belonging to the partiCUlar ideas which appear in
the writing were revivified at that particular minute; a minute later,
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnotism and Telepathy. 233
and it might be the tum of others to be similarly revivified. We
must have recourse, therefore, to telepathic experimeBts-where the
idea is then and there transferred from another mind-for the requisite
proof that a new idea, conditioned by something other than the spon-
taneous workings of the brain, may produce marlted effects without
making any appearance in its receiver's consciousness. Experiments
yielding this proof ha.ve not, so far, been numerous-it must be remem-
bered that deJiberate telepathic experimentation is in its veriest
infancy; but I am content to rely on those recorded in PI&a'fl.ta8mll of
1M Living; 1 and especial1y on the remarkable series carried out by the
Rev. P. H. Newnham and his wi,fe, where a very large number of
questions mentally put by him were relevantly answered in writing,
produced by a planchette on which Mrs. Newnham's hand was laid,
without her having herself any idea what the question or the answer
was. The production of hypnotic trance by an unconscious idea 2 can
acarcely be held to be a more extreme instance of "underground"
mental activity than this.
§ 11. This ar!Ptment naturally applies equally to both the ideas which
we have supposed to obtain a lodgment in the "s\lbject's" mind-the idea
of trance, and the idea of the distant hypnotiser. But as regards this
Jatter idea, there is a further difficulty. For it may be said, aad pro-
bably with justice in most cases, that the mind of the hypnotiser him-
seJf is not consciously occupied with the idea of himself; he is
concentrating his thoughts on the" subject" and on the effect which
he desires to produce, not on his own personality, or his own unique
reJation to the "subject" as the source of the effect. And we cannot
at once answer this objection by the assumption that ideas may be
telepathically propagated from an unconscious part of the transmittera
mind, just as they may take effect in an unconscious part of the
recipient's mind. For supposing the transmitter's mind to include an
"unconscious part" which is more than a mere general name for the
legion of past ideas that are now all alike latent and revivable-an
"unconscious part" where positive activities are possible, and one idea.
1 See Vol. L, pp. 63-79, 84, and VoL n., pp. 67()'1.
I It is difficult to avoid this exprMBion, but I of course do not mean hy it mere
.. unCOllBCiOUB cerebration." My whole view of telepathic tranlference is that it is •
pqel&Kal6vent-with • phyeicallide poIBibly, bat peychical certainly; consequently
the idea tranaferred, in this .. in every other cue, must have complete psychical
re.lity. In calling it UDcoDBCiOUl, therefore, I am, for convenience, confining t~e
meaning of "conBCioal" to the mode or plane of ordinary haman experience-in which
we may surmise the true coDBCioUBne811 of the individual to be only partially mani·
fated. The facti of telepathy drive UII, I think, to conceive a eegregation of conecious
ltetee more pronounced than that which examples of double or alternating "coDBCioua· .
DellI" had previously 8Uggested ; and before long philOlOphy may probably find OBe of
ita chief battle-groandl in questioDl .. to the existence and nature their underlying
unity.
Digitized by Coogle
234 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
can take precedence of others, just as in the conscious part,-we still
need some reason for the activity and prominence assumed, seemingly.
by this particular idea of himself, just at the moment when it suits our
theory that it should come to the front. Readers of Plw.n1.atnn8 of 1M
Living may recall that the same problem presented itself in respect of
a large number of the cases of "spontaneous telepathy" there recorded,
where an idea of the "agent" was most vividly presented to the
"percipient" (often even externalising itself as a hallucination of the
senses), while yet the "agent's" mind at the time was presumably
not dwelling on himself or his appearance, and indeed was some-
times not ostensibly dwelling on anything at all, being in a state
of lethargy or coma.
This fact may seem clearly to separate such spontaneous casea
from the other class, including the majority of cases of ex-
perimental thought-transference, where the definite idea on which
one mind is concentrated is reproduced in the other; and in a
criticism of the telepathic theory which appeared in Mind, Vol. IX.,
p. 607, it was not unreasonably suggested that the difference was
so radical as to make the inclusion of the two sets of facts under
a common conception decidedly difficult. I fully admit this, if the
conception is to be a phyncal one: I admit, that is, the difficulty
(which better knowledge might overcome) of formulating 110 theory of
" brain-waves" which should make it seem as natural that B should
receive a telepathic impression of A, who is thinking of other thiDgs or
not thinking at all, as that B should receive a telepathic impression of
a card on which A is painfully concentrating his attention, or of a
scene which engages A's eyes at the moment when he is passing
through a crisis of emotional excitement. But until physics and
physiology can oifer some explanation of the former fact on its own
account, I do not think that their failure to supply an obvious ground
of connection between the former fact and the latter is a reason for
doubting the reality of a connection which on psychical grounds is
strongly suggested. And keeping to the psychical aspect, we mlloy say
that the idea of self is an altogether exceptional one, occupying, even
when it is not prominent, a permanent place in the background or
middle distance of consciousness; and that the idea of its corporal
embodiment----i.e., of that expression of it which is almost inevitably
rapresented in other people's ideas of it-is associated more or less
closely with a vast number of the items of thought and f,,*,ling which
make up e~ryone's daily experience. Nor does the hypothesis of a
wider self, embracing planes or stages of consciousness beyond the
consciousness of normal experience, involve anything which would
affect this exceptional position of the idea of self; for the segregation
of conscious states which that hypothesis supposes, in no way involves
Digitized by Coogle
HY'JYMtiBm and Telepathy. 235
a disruption of individuality; and the pervading sense of association
with an objective organism may perfectly well be common to all the
states. It cannot then, I think, seem very surprising if those special
mental activities which at special seasons condition a telepathic transfer
-whether at the approach of death, or in the shock of sudden danger
or excitement, or in the concentration of attention and will necessary
for an experiment in distant hypnotising-are accompanied by a special
self-realisation, a true quickening of the idea of self, even though that
idea does not detach itself on the plane of consciousness which limits
our ordinary conception of personality.
§ 12. I am aware of the risk of paying one's self with words in luch
speculations; and I specially recognise the danger of physical analogies,
8uch as I have just used in the word plane. Modes of expression
derived from a known order of facta can never really seem explanatory
of a novel order till their connotation has grown-that is, till the novel
order has ceased to be novel; and meanwhile pseudo-explanation is
only too easy. But the phenomena of telepathy are there, and, how·
ever much hidden from our sight, the process of causation must be
there also; and some indulgence may be claimed for a hypothetical
picture of that process which is confessedly crude, as long as its crude-
ness is the result of an attempt to make its elements distinct. Now,
the notion of segregated departments of mental life, of which a more
complete intelligence can perceive the unity, is not an indistinct notion,
though probably it very imperfectly represents the facts; and if it has
any truth at all, then .. plane of consciousness" has a true psychical
meaning, and is more than a. slippery metaphorical phrase. And if
the plea of necessity will excuse the use of phyrical terms, so, I think,
will it excuse the use of maaphyrical, in spite of a certain awkward-
ness in the actuality suddenly given to somewhat recondite notions.
For in truth the problems which telepathy presents lie on the border-
land of psychology and metaphysics; and in attacking them psychology
bas to trespass, or rather to make distinct claims, on the metaphysical
territory. It finds itself driven, by the facts under observation, to tie
down to actual individual cases ideas-like those of unconscious mind
and of a transcendental self-which have dwelt so continuously in the
misty heights of purely abstract reasonings that they present an odd,
incongruous appearance when brought to earth. The" philosophy of
the unconscious" is shy of adapting itself to the unconscious part of
Mr. A. ; it seems hardly worth while for the" self" to be transcendent,
if all that it is to transcend is the ordinary phenomenal consciousness
of Madame B. Yet, Mr. A. and Madame B. are types of humanity ;
and in examining the bond which unites them, we are really on the
traces of an idealism which is metaphysical enough in all conscience,
as pointing to a potential unity of all similarly constructed minds, but
Digitized by Coogle
236 HypnotiBm and Telepathy.
which is nothing if not concrete, and a key to nothing except imme-
diate facts of individual experience.
SUMMARY OF THE PRECEDING ARGUMENT.
§ 13. To sum up the argument, 808 so far developed, we have been
considering the subject of hypnotisation at a distance, 808 one which
certain recent cases had made it 808 impossible for students of Hypnotism
808 it must in any case have been for students of Telepathy to over-
look. I have advanced the view that these telepathic entrancements
necessitated no hypothesis of will-power or" psychic force" capable
of producing effects in external matter-viz., the organism of B, the
U subject "-which differed from their cause in A, the hypnotiser; thAt
the phenomenon might be perfectly well regarded as a genuine instance
of thought-transference or mental suggestion-certain mental mo\"e-
menta of A's, and certain brain·movements correlated therewith, being
sympatheticallyreproduc/ld in the mind and brainof B,WhOW808 entranced
by the idea of trance in association with the idea of A, just 808 he might be
entranced bythose ideaswhensuggested byA 's voiceandpresence. I have
further pointed out thatit is quite in accordance with what we know of
telepathy in other directions that these ideas, when transferred, should
take effect in some secondary plane of the " subject's" mind-a plane
segregated off from the conscious self as ordinarily understood.1 And
I must now pursue the discussion by recurring for a brief space to the
connection between telepathic hypnotism and other forms of telepathy,
which occupy the greater portion of Phantaams 0/ the Living. I may
begin by showing how, on the view which I have advanced 808 to the
former, a certain difficulty, or rather a certain lacuna, which the latter
present, seems to be removed.
THR CASES OF TELEPATHIC HYPNOTISM FORM A LINK BETWEEN THE
ORDINARY BXPERIMENTAL AND THE ORDINAKY SPONTANEOUS CASU
OF TELEPATHY.
§14. To state the positionbriefly-the principal telepathic phenomena
dealt with in that book are (1) experinllmts in thought-transference,
where "agent" and "percipient" are near one another, and where
BOme prominent idea in the" agent's" mind is reproduced in the
" percipient's" mind 808 an idea simply; and (2) cases of spontaneous
occurrence (i.6., not, as in experiments, deliberately sought) where the
" agent" and "percipient" 808 a rule are far apart, and where an
impression representative of the "agent" is made on one or more of
1 For further proofs of the reality of mental proce8IIe8 carried on apart from the
normal stream of the individual's consciousneaa, and in that sense without his Irnow-
ledge, see Mr. Myers's paperon .. Automatic Writing," and my own on "Peculiarities
of certain Post·hypnotic States," in the P~udiflU' of the S.P.R., Vol. IV.
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnotism and Telepathy. 237
the II percipient's" senses. These two sorta of occurrence seem, on the
face of them, very different; if they are fundamentally akin, they
seem to need a connecting link; and we can imagine various inter-
mediate phenomena which would serve the purpose. The link might
consist in experiments similar to the ordinary experiments in thought-
transference, except in the point that the two persona concerned are
1M apMt instead of near together. I have to admit the absence, and
also the urgent need, of such experiments. They would, however, be
difficult and tedious to carry out; and a long series of results, such
18 would be required, could hardly be obtained except by the aid of
telegraph or telephone) Another sort of link would be if the
"agent's" conscious idea spontaneotulll reproduced itself (without the
coincidence being fairly attributable to chance) in the mind of adistant
percipient. Now of this Pha1&taBmB ofthe Living contains a good many
well-atteated specimens. It is true that the idea reproduced haa not been
exactly of the same order aa those reproduced in thought-trana-
ferenee experiments; that is, it haa not been of anything quite
80 simple and unemotional aa a card, number or diagram; but
18 a rule baa represented sights or BOunds which have been occu-
pying the "agent's" senses at BOme moment of crisis or excitement.
This difference, however, can hardly surprise us. For in the first place
we should expect some exceptional affection of the c. agent" to be a
necessary condition of the spontaneous transference, just aa an excep-
tional and often painful concentration of attention is necessary in the
card and diagram experiments. And in the second place, spontaneoU8
I An excellent form of experiment for the purpoee would be the gueuiug of
1I1IIDbers, in the way exemplified in PlwltItaIIIu of ,iae LiwfI(1, Vol. II., pp. 6Ii3-4. If
die two perIIODS concerned in that eeriea would try a aimilareerieaat a diatauce, the
D-.ary information as to when each gueaa had been made and a freah nnmber
lllight be taken being conveyed by telephone, and if 8UCC888ful 1'88ultll were obtained,
the fact would be of the very higheat intereat and importance. .. Why then," I may
he uked, .. do you not get the trial made?" The reason i. typical of diflicultiea
which only those actively engaged in .. psychical research" can appreciate. The
III&terial for study colllliBtII in human beings with occupatiOIlII a.ud wille of 'heir own,
IIld u a rule with no independent interellt in the subject. Even supposing two quiet
rooms connected by the n8C88ll&1')' apparatus to be aecured at the necellll&l'f hours, the
plan proposed would demand a considerable amount of trouble, and perhaps in all
(counting time for gom, and coming back) an hour a.ud a-half of time, on each of
about 15days. Now to any bon4 fide psychical researcher, this expenditure of time
and trouble would of course seem the mereat trifle. But I would ask
IlICb of my readera whether he feels able confidently to make .uoh a demand
of any couple, taken at random, among hiB female acquaintauce, in the intereat
of an inquiry of which they do not understand the bearing&, and of which
their only idea is that it is bothersome and scientific. At present the perIIOlIB who
1IWldbe willing to take the trouble are probably nearly as rare as the perIIOIlII sufIi·
ciBDtly endowed with the' DeceIIII&l'Y faculty to give the experiment a chance ; a.ud
Mlistanta in whom both conditions arerealiaed are clearly Dot likely to be found every
day, or even every year. But of course the desirability of finding them will be
Iteadily kept in view.
Digitized by Coogle
238 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
transferences of ideas unconnected with any specially-marked moment
might occur between the same person. every day, without ever having
a chance of exciting attention or being recorded. In the mind of a
"percipient" who was not (as in the experiments) deliberately putting
himself into a passive and receptive attitude, a transferred idea would
probably at most reach the bare threshold of consciousness, where it
would meet and jostle with a hundred others, while bearing in itself no
sign of its origin : what, then, is the likelihood that the "percipient OJ
would pick it out, note it, and ask all his absent acquaintance whether
their minds were fixed on a similar one at that particular time' And
even if some sporadic correspondences of the sort were noted, they
could scarcely be presented as "ostensive instances" of telepathy, con-
sidering the immense range for accidental coincidence that the world
of ideas common to all of us contains. I think therefore that the
ostensive instances which I have mentioned present in their content aa
much affinity to the experimental transference as could reasonably be
expected.
But yet a third link of connection between the experiment&l and
the spontaneous cases would be of this sort-if an impression represen-
tative of the" agent" were made on the " percipient's" mind, without
any affection of his senses. Such a case woulc:J resemble the majority
of the spontaneous transferences in the nature of the idea transferred
and the majority of the experimental transferences in the absence of
sensory affection on the "percipient's" side; and the type would indireCtly
afford a strong indication that the sensory affections-phantasms offorma
and voices-which characterise so many of the impressions that have
coincided with the death or danger of friends at a distance, are really
mental creations of the " percipient's" own (or, as I laave never hesitated
to call them, hallucinations), in which he invests the idea of the" agent"
that has telepathically reached him. Now the cases of distant hypno-
tisation, explained as I have here endeavoured to explain them, supply
exactly this transitional type. They are truly experimental, inasmuch
as the attempt to exercise the distant influence is deliberately and
consciously made by the "agent"; and the idea of him which reaches
the "subject's" mind, sometimes aboTe and sometimes below the
threshold of consciousness as we understand it, does not in either case
emerge into sensory form. I may add that cases are on record where
yet further hnks or gradations appear; for instance, a person noted for
his mesmeric powers succeeded in producing a strong impression of his
presence, which nevertheless contained no sensory element, on two
friends at a distance, who were not in any desree hypnotised by the
impreBBion.1
1 P1&afttMml o/CiuLitliftg,VoLl., p.99. It 8hould benoted that it iaby nomeau iD.
variable, in the Ilpontaneo118 c-, for the idea of the" agent" to be externaliIed inthe
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnotilrm and Telepathy. 239
THB IMPUL8IVB QUALITY 0.. THB TELBPATHIC IMPBB88ION.
§ 15. One further point remains, in which a comparison of the phe-
nomena of hypnotisation at a distance with those of non-hypnotic tele-
pathy seems to throw light on both. In PhantannB 0/eM Living I have
drawn attention to the impulBive quality which seems often to charac-
terise a telepathic impression; and which seems to be shown equally in
the forms of experiment where a motor-impulse is produced, as, 6.g., in
the palmary instance of Mr. and Mrs. Newnham referred to above; in
one or two spontaneous cases where the impulse similarly was to write,
and the transferred idea appea~d in the writing; and in other spon-
taneous cases where a definite and peculiar impulse to movement or
action was conveyed; but also more generally, I venture to think, in
that very fact of the frequent externalisation of the impression as a
Bensory percept, which has been mentioned in the preceding paragraph.1
Ordinarily, of course, our ideas of our friends, when they occur to us,
do not project themselves outwards as hallucinations representing the
friends' forms or voices; how is it that telepathic ideas so eonstantly
do sof The fact cannot, I think, be disputed by anyone who accepts
the telepathic evidence, unless on the hypothesis-not likely to
be entertained by many of my readers-that what is perceived is a
material body, capable of emitting or reflecting light and of setting
lOund-waves in motion. I at any rate see no escape from
the alternative that it affects the percipient's senses either by
stimulation from without or by projection from within. Now if we
accept this forceful quality, this tendency to push on into an extreme
form, in one class of telepathic effects, we shall naturaJIy look out
for it in another class; and the recognition of it as a tolerably general
characteristic is perhaps the only sort of explanation that it at present
admits of. What sign then do we find of it in the hypnotic cases'
No conclusive sign, at first sight, it must be admitted. For the mere
idea, the mental suggestion, of the trance-condition, in association with
that of the hypnotiser's personality, has been already represented as an
adequate ground for the supervention of the trance, IIolike whether the
idea be suggested by the hypnotiser's words and presence or by telepathic
transference-the exceptional effect being accounted for by the excep-
tional sensitiveness of the previously-hypnotised" subject," who is in a
state, so to speak, of highly unstable equilibrium. It would clearly
then be illegitimate to supplement this view by attributing an
__ Sometimes the simple idea of hiB death iB conveyed (e.g., in the _ numbered
46, 87, 401) ; but inasmuch as that idea may reasonably be supposed to have been
praent in hIs mind during the approach ofdeath, lIuch _ may as fitly be referred
to theclaaa where the" agent'll " idea is literally reproduced as to the cIau where the
idaa of MIn. ratberthan 1&.. idea, iB the subject of transfer.
1 See p~ ofCl&e Liftfl/1, Vol. I., 537-8.
Digitized by Coogle
240 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
exceptional impulsive quality, or vigour of impact, to the telepathically-
transferred idea, wnle8s we were able to suppose some similar condition
in the cases where the hy}Jnotiser's words and presence are ostensibly
the only cause that works on the "subject." Well, the point is now
reached at which this very supposition can not only be intelligibly
made, but shown to be in some instances at any rate indispensable.
It will be remembered that in speaking of verbal or physical
suggestion of the idea of trance, I pointed out that this alone was not
enough to induce the state even in a sensitised "subject," who might
meet with the idea in a book without undergoing any effect whatever;
and that the idea of the original hypnotiser's personality was at any
rate an indispensable element. But it may be urged with equal reason
that something more still is needed; for this other idea might also be
met with in a book-e.g., the" subject" might read a printed account
of his previous entrancements by his special hypnotiser without a fresh
entrancement ensuing. What, then, makes the difference 1 Is it the
sense of the operator's authority, which the "subject" is made to feel
either by his tone and manner or by a general belief in his power 1
Very often, probably, this is enough; but the French cases epitomised
above clearly show that it is not always enough, and no single point
in them is more instructive than this. Professor Pierre Janet;
Dr. Hericourt, and Dr. Dusart all observed that the" subject's" belieJ
that the entrancement was being then and there attempted and
willed by the special hypnotiser was ineffective, if the hypnotiser was
not really concentrating his mind in the manner supposed. This fact
seems explicable only on the hypothesis that, when the effect is
produced, some cause is at work beyond the ostensible cause of verbal
and physical suggestion; and the cause which, on the grounds of
analogy and of parsimony of assumptions, at once presents itself is
surely no other than mental suggestion-telepathic, even though the
two persons are in the same room, as being transferred otherwise than
through the recognised channels of sense, and carrying with it the
impulsive quality, which now involves the further development into
trance, as in other casell it involves the further development into
hallucination. In this way that inscrutable something which has been
described as specific "mesmeric" power would reduce itself (for the
cases in question) to identity with the more comprehensible and general
Bort of telepathic" agency"; and its peculiar effect on the "subject"
is simply a pushing on into an extreme form in the direction of lM6I
resistance, which is here determined as that of hypnotic trance by the
pre-established sensitiveness to this particular idea. Such an agency is
no longer specific in the sense of being an occult mode of influence
which a few specially endowed persons have always at command, and
can bring to bear at a moment's notice on any favourable "subject";
Hypnotism and Telepathy. 241
it receives its specia1isa.tion at the receiving. not at the trammiUing
terminua.
THB NATURB OJ' HYPNOTIC "RAPPORT."
§ 16. "But," the "mesmerists" might object, "does not this view
of the hypnotic cases ignore the palpable fact of the rapponl Is it
not mere jUQlingwith words to deny any specific quality to 'mesmeric'
agency, if the rapport which puts the 'agent' in connection with the
I snbject,' and which has been mesmerically established, remains specific t
And how can that description be denied to it if, as usually happens,
each of the two persons concerned is indispensable to the other-if A
can at that particular time be entranced by the suggestion of no one
in the world except B, and B's suggestion can at that particular time
entrance no one in the world except A 1"
Now, in the first place, a certain ambiguity lies in the word rappon.
When A's thought or sensation has been transferred to B, we may say,
if we like, that A and B were in rapport,' but this is merely to coin a
aseleas definition, and to throw'away a useful word, WeBB we mean
hy fa,ppqrt something which is different from the transference, and
which has COfIditioned the transference. Taking this latter sense,
I have no doubt that such a thing as hypnotio rapport exists,
and I have no objection to the word Bpecifo: as applied .to
it; but I believe the true application to be quite remote from
any theory of occult or "mesmeric" induence. For why need we
Illume the parties to be connected by any more mysterious bond than
the one above defined (p. 225) in connection with hypnotiBation
at a distance-the permanent impreB8ion of their past rel8.tioDB to
one another 1 On the liew of psychical transference (as opposed to
physical effluence) which I have founded on the distant cases, it is hard
to see that any further condition is either possible or required. That
this permanent impreBBion in the hypnotic cases is peculiar, I should
fully admit; but only,1 conceive, in so far as the relations themBeltJU are
peculiar. Now, their peculiarity is sufficiently patent: the" subject's"
mental abandonment to the idea of his hypnotiser, with all the oddities
of conduct to which this one-sided engrossment lea.ds,are phenomena
quite specia.1 to the hypnotic state) And inasmuch as rare causes may
1 ThiB eugroumeut is implied, of C01lI'Be, in that abnormal rtlIIpOII8iven_ to the
bypaotiser's IJll8PlltioDl which I regard as the moet distinctive mark of the hypnotio
state. But it is .hown aI80 in other ways. The" subject" will often _ blind and
deaf to the Pl'OllOllce and voice of everyone elae, and can only be DUlde to _ and hear
IIOIDe other perIOn by the hypnotiser'. pointedly bringing auch paI'IIOIl to hie notice,
10 "-' the two become aseociated in his mind. A BeIlBitive ..subject" will frequently
follow the hypnotiaer about the room or the hoUle, will ahow DDeaaiDeu when he
diappean, and will even feel a strong impulse to rejoin him after an interval ofa daJ'
or of averal days. The IllUDe peculiarity _ to be .hOWD in a fact which bu no$, I
R
Digitized by Coogle
242 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
naturally have rare consequences, tliere is no difficulty in supposing
that a consequence of this special relation is 8 special subsequent
penetrability (so to speak) of one mind by the other-a partial weaken-
ing, in a single direction, of the barrier which normally isolates
individuals, and confines the experience of each to sensations received
through the recognised channels or ideas originated by his own
activities. Not, of course, that we should have had any right to pre-
dice such a consequence: telepathy could never be deduced (I pnori
from anything e~. But when, as a matter of fact, we find psychical
transferences taking place between certain persons after, and not before,
their minds have been in a certain peculiar relation to one another,it is
impossible not to suspect that this relation is a vital condition of the
transference; and if this relation has ceased to show itself in any re-
oognisable form at the time when the transferences are observed. we
can but seek the immediate condition in the permanent impression
which it has left. This permanent impression, then, and nothing else,
ia the rappurt " and it will be seen how everything exceptional and
mysterious has now disappeared out of it. In the line of conditions
the only exceptional part was found to lie elsewhere-in the well-re-
cognised psychological peculiarities of the hypnotic state; and the
rapport itself, as the abiding latent sense of past relations, proves to be
thiDk, been enough noticed, but .. to the reality of which I would ap.-.I wid! COII-
fidence to anyone who baa ...isted at hypnotic experiments oonducted by a good muy
different operators at a good many different placee. I mean the readineee with which
·what may be called Ilrpnotic faallWm are eetablished. A group of .. subject." in one
place, who have been a good deal under the influence of the BalDeoperator,will develop
a quite different I18t of habit. from another group in another place. A rough instance
of this is where one group prove more or Ieee unamenable to methods of entrancement
or of awakening wblcb are specially succeuful with the other; as, e.g., I have found
the" subjects" of one operator wake with CArtainty at a smart blow or sudden com-
mand, while thOll8 of another seemed recalcitrant to everything except the flicks of a
towel or large handkerchief to which they were aocuatomed. But thtlir behaviour
during the trance often shows a far more subtle oonformity to what the operator
upecta; BO that there come to be veritable ICItoolI of hypnotism-the phenomena
taking the oounemarked out for them by the operator'8generalview ofthe ''subject''-
a view which may really have originated to a conaiderable extent in aocidental
peculiaritiee of individual ..subjectll." I shouldbe inclined, for example, to acooant in
this way for much of the dllference between the obaervatiODll of Nancy and of the
Salp&tri~ and, in oonaequence, for much of the difference in the 'heories uaociated
reepectively with the two localitiee. But I cannot pursue this subject in a footnote.
What I wish to point out is Binlply that theee facta seem to inIply a far more COII-
tinuous and minute attention,on the part of the II subjects," to thE' substance and tone
of remarks made by the operator in their preBenoe,and a far strongerinIpulae toutisf)'
liinl, than would be exhibited by persona of the same degree <>f intelligence and
education in ordinary life, or than would be gueeeed from the appearance of duln_
and apathy which is usual to a hypnotised person when no direct appeal is made w
him from outside. I am glad of this opportuuity of modifying BOme expreeaiODl in •
former paper(ProceedlJlg" Vol. II•• pp. 215-6) where a too large oonceaaion wasmadew
the idea that psychical funmona are aboliahed, or nearly aboliahed, in the lethargic
stap of hypnotism.
Digitized by Coogle
H1JP1Wtiam and Telepathy.
fundamentally the same in kinll aa that which baa pre-existed in a large
majority of the apontaneo1l8 telepathio caaea-where the" agent" and
II percipient" have been conuected by ties of affection or acquaintance,
wtrich we may equally oa1l specifio, in the sense of being personal to
.each pair, but not with any more occult reference.
DOMPARISON 01' HYPNOTIC RAPPORT WITH THB RAPPORT BBTWBEN AGBNT
AND PBBCIPIBNT IN OTHBR TELBPATHIC CASU.
§ 17. And if mpporl, as a hypnogenetio condition, is not excep-
tional in kind, neither does it seem necessary to suppose it.
exceptional in 'wmgeh-to suppose, that is, that it facilitates
the telepathic transference in a higher degree than is p0s-
sible or common in caaea unconnected with hypnotism. For
we must distinguish the transference aa such from its further
eft"ect on the "subject." It may very likely be the case that the
hypnotiaers and "subjects" who, if the necessary trial were made,
would yield us examples of telepathic hypnotisation, are more numero1l8
in proportion to the total number of hypnotisers and" subjects," than
are the persons who at death produce a marked telepathic impression
on some friend or relative, in proportion to the total number of persons
po8II8BBing friends and relatives. But this seems quite sufficiently
accounted for by the fact, already noticed, that the hypnotic "subjects"
are hit (so to speak) at a specially explosive spot. The idea that
reaches them baa been aasociated on former occasions with precisely
the marked consequence that now again ensues; whereas the idea of a
friend, or even of a friend's death, haa not on former occasions been
usociated with any marked consequence, such aa a hallucination
suggestive of his presence. The hypnotic "subjects," in short, have
been adapted by artificial means to respond strongly to the telepathio
stimulus; while of people at large it is only a small minority in whom
the natural condition for such strong response exists. And here let it
be specially observed that it is by absence of r6Bp0f&86, not absence of
Itimulm, that we shall most readily and ~nably account for the
rarity, in comparison with the numbers who die, of telepathic affections
of the friends and relatives of dying persons. That rarity has been
felt as an initial obstacle to the whole telepathic theory; and there is
no doubt that telepathic action becomes more comprehensible the more
univeraal we can consider it. Now if, aa analogy would indicate, the
marked caaea of telepathic phantasms are only the "ostensive instances"
of a class of events whioh may occur with all degrees of diminishing
intensity, we may fairly suppose some of the degrees to be BUb-liminal;
and if 80, numbers of spontaneo1l8 transferences might naturally take
place, conditioned by.the normal bonds of affection or acquaintance,
which fail to produce any recognisable effect-fail, that is, to make
R 2
Digitized by Coogle
244 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
their way into normal consciousness as clear ideas or sensory hallucina-
tions-through a lack of some necessary condition in the recipient
mind.l
This may, perhaps, be made clearer by an illustration drawn from
certain further facts of hypnotism, which are also worth noting on
their own account in connection with the subject of 'l"apport. A
hypnotised perwn will sometimes be able to detect the faint whisper of
his hypnotiser, amid a babel of sound which makes it absolutely in-
distinguishable to anyone else)1 How is this fact to be accounted for'
Certainly not by hyperathesia of the sense of hearing; for no such
condition is observed in relation to any other sound. We must again
fall back on 'l"appot"t-but again on mppO'l't of a quite comprehensible
kind. It will consist, not noW" (as in the case of hypnotisation by
suggestion) of the "subject's" memory of his past relations to his
hypnotiser, but in his sense of the p'1'686nt relation-the pervading
dominance of the idea of that one particular person in a mind whose
reflective and discursive powers are in abeyance, and whose passive
absorption is undisturbed by competing images. This dominant Idea
is now the vulnerable spot; and consequently a stimulus which strikes
that spot-in other words which impresses the sensorium in a manner
previously associated with impressions of the hypnotiser-wakes a ~
verberation which detaches itself in consciousness. But for the purpose
of my illustration the point to observe is that the ,timultuJ acts equally
on the other persons present; for in the midst of perfect stillness they
would hear the whisper, and, as an element in the total of sound. that is
being produced around them, it must undoubtedly affect their sensorium;
only, not falling on any vulnerable spot, it is totally unobserveli. Just
80, I conceive, the psychical stimulus in the cases of telepathic trans-
ference: the transference may take place, and produce a certain
psychical result; but, without the appropriate condition, that result
will not reach any appreciable strength. The condition of response
might be compared to a sounding-board: a number of strings may be
faintly stirred by the telepathic wave; but only those which are backed
by a sounding-board will reverberate audibly. That only a small
minority .of minds should naturally present this condition is not a point
of a.ny difJiculty-or at any rate is one admitting of just as much and
just as little explanation as that a small minority of persons should be
hyper-sensitive in any other direction. But where the condition exists,
the 'l"appt'OCMnl6nt of the rare natural hyper-sensitiveness of the
IOn this view, it will be Been, telepathic phantasms (and poaaibly telepathic dec>
tiona of every BOrt) can be represented-no 1_ than the llpecial cIaas. a~
mentioned-as emergencea or developments of ideas which have in the firat inatance
affected an UDCODIICioUB part of the percipient's mind.
I~I of the S.P..R., Vol I., 251)·6.
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnotism and Telepathy. 245
ordinary telepathic percipient to the rare artificial hyper-sensitiveness
of the hypnotic "subject" appears to be both legitimate and instruc-
tive j while the rejection which it involves of the idea of "mesmeric"
f'tJP1KWt, as anything pM" 116 and exceptional, tends still further to the
simplification of the telepathic theory.
§ 18. Beforeleaving the subject of hypnotic 'rappOlf't and its effect on
the telepathic transference of ideas, I must point out that I have been
speaking exclusively of hypnogmeti.c ideas. In respect of other
phenomena of .thoughtrtransference, exhibited during the actual
duration of the trance, it would be rash, I think, to assert that the
fYJptHW' with the operator is not a condition of transference more
favourable than any that spontaneously presents itself. I at any rate
do not know of any results of experiments conducted with persons in
a normal state which can be compared, for scope and complexity, with
some of the hypnotic caae8--8.g., with the important set of observa-
tions recorded in P1w.ntasm8 cif the Living, Vol: II., 336-43 j where an
exceptional facility of communication seems to be shown in two ways, -
(1) by the great frequency and certainty of the effects j and (2) by the
idea communicated being often one which passed through the hypno-
tiaer's head when she was not in the least thinking of her patient or
of attsmpting a transference, and upon which therefore she was not
concentrating any special energy of attention. The very fact, more-
over, that the phenomena of "community of sensation" were observed
with hypnotised persons many years before they were obtained with
others may seem to point in the same direction j and in most of theSe
cases it looks as if the results were directly dependent on the establish-
ment of the hypnotic relation. At the same time it must be remem-
bered that "community ofsensation" is a very rare phenomenon even
with hypnotised "subjects"j while, on the other band, we are not yet
at all in a position to decide what proportion of unbypnotised persons
might show high susceptibility to this and other forms of thoughtr
transference, if only the necessary experiments were widely made.
It should be noted, moreover, that quite as striking results have been
obtained in the particular line of "community of sensation" with non-
hypnotised as with hypnotised" subjects" (P1w.ntasm8, Vol. I., pp. 52-8);
and that several forms of transference have been obtained exclusively
with persons in a normal state. On the whole, the conclusion seems
to be that the effect of the hypnotic state in facilitating and
~hening telepathic impulses, though occasionally very decisive, is
very far from constant. We should probably gain a clearer view on
the subject if persons who have shown themselves to be susceptible
wher.. in one state were subjected to experiments when in the other;
and if hypnotisers who have obtained community of sensation with
their "subjects" would experiment with other persons who have
Digitized by Coogle
246 HypnotiBm and Telepathy.
proved to be sensitive "percipients." But such suggestions would be
totally unpractical unless we might hope that, as psychical research
gradually becomes legitimised, the human material available for study
will become less rare.
IN ORDINARY CASIIS 01' HYPNOTISATION IS THERE A TRANSI'ERBNCB OR
IIfFLUBNCB 01' ANY SORT BBYOND THB OSTBNSIBLB MBCHANICAL
PROCBSS 1
§ 19. To return now to the special hypnogenetic problems: I have
Bhowngrounds for believingthat in some C&B6B of hypnogenetic suggestion
-where the parties are together and the suggestion is conveyed by phy-
sical means, no less than where they are separated and the suggestion
is psychical-a true psychical or telepathic agency is exercised, of a sort
foreign indeed to the hitherto.accepted theories of hypnotism, but
equally remote from "odic" or "mesmeric" emuences. But if in
these C&B6B the first indispensable conditions of the effect present
themselves as mental phenomena, the question naturally arises what
relation, if any, do mental phenomena hold to the other hypnogenetic
methods, where the entrancement takes place (as with fresh "sub-
jects" it almost always does take place) after the application of dis-
tinct physical proceBB6B 7 I have purposely deferred these cases of
primary hypnotisation till those of the secondary (or suggestional) cIa.ss
had been discussed, as being at the very outset harder to discriminate
-for this obvious reason: that while we can be sure that there is no
effective exercise of bodily energy, when the "subject" is sitting
apart or alone and the mode of influence is ostensibly mental, we
cannot similarly be sure that there is no effective exercise of maaIGl
energy. when the operator takes him in hand and the mode of influence
is ostensibly bodily. In the latter case, therefore, the actual or possible
complication of causes makes analysis very difficult. The question is
really a triple one; for we may ask (1) whether the hypnotiaer'B
mind has some direct share in the flfiect, originating a psychical
transference in the sense of " psychical" above explained,
(pp. 219-21); or, supposing his body alone to act directly, by touch,
passes, &c., whether (2) the effect is purely mechanical and due simply
to the pressure or the gentle stimulation which his muscles bring to
bear, or (3) is of a more inscrutable and nervous sort; in which last
case, we must observe, his mind may condition it, as in the first case,
though less directly-since from whatever part of the body the nerve-
force be supposed to act, the total of energy evolved may include
certain cerebral changes of which certain mental facts, Buch as con-
centration. may be th" necessary correla.tes. The,ectmd of these
hypotheses is, of course, the one in favour of which physiologists
have unhesitatingly pronounced. This haa been almost inevitable; for
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnotism a;n,d Telepathy. . 247
the first of the three was not likely to occur to them, until the reality
of "psychical" or telepathic trauaferences was proved irrespectively of
hypnotism, and by examples where the possibility of bodily in1luence
1rBB excluded, either by the form of the experiment, or by distance ;
while the last of the three, though not equally outside the range of
physiological conceptions, and though nowhere so strongly suggested as
in the immediate facts of hypnotism, is so indefinite as to seem more
like a phrase than an explanation i-what can science have to say about
inscrutable nervous influences1 The second hypothesis, moreover,
undoubtedly offers a satisfactory account of many of the ordinary
cues; while its adequacy has seemed almost guaranteed by the fact
that not infrequently a person has succeeded in hypnotising hi"".Vby
the purely mechanical process of fixing his eyes immovably on some
Dear object.
As to the first hypothesis-that of direct "psychical" agenoy-
there is not much to detain us; simply because where physical pro-
ceaaea are simultaneously brought to bear, psychical agency could never
be prr1Wll to be the really effective element; while the fact that only
ODe caae 1 is on record of silent concentration, wi&ccompanied by any
physical processes, producing hypnotiaation in a person never previously
entranced, leads us to suspect that its influence would at moat be sup-
plementary to that of the other means adopted. That it sometimes
has an in1luence of this supplementary sort seems likely enough; for
though with a fresh "subject" there is no specially "explosive spot "
-the result of previous hypnotiaation-to be affected, yet, if the
working of the transferred idea be of the sort above suggested, we can
readily conceive that a soporific impulse, stron« enough at any rate to
facilitate the passage into trance, might be " psychically" conveyed to
a sensitive recipient. It must be remembered that, in discUBBions of
that part of the hypnotic process which is peculiar to the" subject," it
has been the almost invariable rule to attach some distinct importance
to mental elements-to eke out the supposed influence of physical im·
mobility, or of an inward and upward squint, by that of attention or
willingness to yield to the novel impulse; and for a believer in
telepathy it is impossible to aaaume such mental elements as these
without admittin~ the possibility at least that they may be reinforced,
if not actually initiated, by a psychical transference. And that is all, I
think, that can at present be said.
INDICATIONS 01' A BPBCII'IC PHYSICAL INI'L17BNCB IN
NON·HYPNOTIC CASB8.
§ 20. But as regards the second and the third hypothesis, the issue
can be made more definite; and it is reall~ possihle, I think, to fight it
1 See above, p. 218, BeCOnd DOte.
Digitized by Coogle
248 Hypnotiwn~ and Telepathy.
out to a conclusion. In any particular c:ase, there either iB or u flOC
some specific physical inft.uence at work, beyond the merely mechanical
effect of the muscular processes involved. Now, obviously the question
of the possibility of a specific physical influence of one organism on
another is not necessa.r:ilY confined to cases of hypnotism; but if in
any shape whatever the reality of such an inft.uence were made
apparent, the difficulty of supposing it to be operative in hypnotism
would pmctically vanish-just as the difficulty of conceiving hypnoti-
sation at a distance vanishes when the reality of telepathy is recognised
in other ranges of phenomena. I have a purpose in this remark; for,
as it happens, some of the cases which to my mind ha\>e seemed the
most suggestive of a specific physical inft.uence of one human
organism on another have not been connected with attempts to
hypnotise, though the results have to a certain extent resembled those
of hypnotism; and I am glad to have an opportunity of directing
attention to these facts. They have all occurred in the course of what
is known as the " willing-game "-i.e., under conditions which involved
not only contact hut concentrated desire on the "willer's" part. The
following are specimens of what the accounts that have reached me
lead me to conclude has happened, in a more or less marked form, on
many occasions when this game has been played. The Lancet, October
11, 1884, thus reports a case related by Mr. Wherry, F.R.C.S., to the
Cambridge Medical Society:-
Mr. Wherry was sent for one evening to see an undergraduate who had
become suddenly ill during the willing-game. It appeared that his friends
had blindfolded him in the usual manner and were willing him to do some
simple action, when suddenly he became weak in the knees and had to be
helped to a seat. The handkerchief ",as removed at once. but the patient
did not seem at all himself. He found him leaning against the mantelshelf,
looking fixedly downwards in a dogged and morose attitude; he answered
questions in monosyllables in a hesitating way, not stammering, but with a
jerk and without expreBBion. Usually. his friends said. his manners were
natural and polite. The pupils were dilated, with no action to light, and his
memory was a blank as to the details of the game. He was sent to bed, and
when seen the next morning he was better; his pupils were normal and
activ, to light, but his manner was still odd and his speech remarkaBle.
When advised to leave Cambridge for a few days' change, he refused rudely,
but was afterwards persuaded by his friends, and returned quite weD.
On the lIBDle evening another medical witnesa, Mr. Deighton, reported
that in November, 1883, he was summoned in urgeut haste to see an
undergraduate. He found him surrounded by his friends. who said they
had been playing the willing-game, and that he had been blindfolded and
willed; soon afterwards he became totterinll on his lep and went inlo ..
state of convulsions. When seen he was toBBing about on a sofa, with face
slightly fiushed, the movements of the arms and legs being most irreguJar.
almost equaDy exaggerated on both sides. The muscles of the face and neck
Digitized by Coogle
H'!I'JYMtism and Telepathy. 249
were least affected, but he spoke in a jerky way, and on putting out his
tongue it was protruded and withdrawn suddenly. He was quite conacioua,
clear and collected, and said that he tried to prevent himself toaaing about,
but could not help it. The pupila acted to light, and were natural in size.
He was ordered a bromide draught and told to go to bed. The next morning
he was quite well. He said he had spent a bad night; tolling about until
five a.m. before he went to sleep, but there was now only an occaaional
twitching in the legs. He was of a nervous and excitable disposition, but
Dever had fita, rheumatism, or chorea.
About the same time the Master of Selwyn College told me of a
very similar incident which had happened among his own under-
graduates. I will add one more case which I owe to Mr. F. H.
Matthews, of Ivy Villa., Beulah Hill, Upper Norwood. The narrator
is his sister, and the narrative has been fully confirmed by the lady in
whose house the incident occurred, and also by Mr. Matthews's in-
dependent recollections of what his sister had told him.
" Febmary 14, 1886•
.. On the evening of Tueaday, December 8, 1885, we were playing the
willing-game, and upon being asked to try, I left the room, whilat something
was thought of. When I returned I was blindfolded, gave my right hand to
Miss S., who was to lead me. Almost immediately I started forward, and
went straight towards a young lady, and fell on my knees before her. Then,
unfortunately, my thoughts returned to me, and I was conacious that I should
kiss her. The knowledge, it seems, prevented my performing the action,
and the next moment I fell on the floor with the full conacioum811 of what
had happened to me." She lay for some minutes, unable to speak or move,
and breathing with great difficulty. " When my drell was unfastened, the
relief was so great that I broke into crying, and I could hear myaeH how
loudly I sobbed, feeling even ashamed, yet not able to check myself." Re-
vived with brandy, &c., she had a violent fit of trembling, which left her
with an illclination to sleep_ This, however, was resisted ; and after forcing
heneH to walk upstairs, which she did with &lliatance, she returned to a
DOnnaI state.
While this paper is paBBing through the press, a friend tells me
that, on the only Of'.casion when she was ever" willed" in this way,
she fainted and fell almost immediately on being touched.
Such results as these seem at any rate to deserve attention. Nothing
like them has ever occurred in experiments in thought-transference
proper, without contact; and it is very difficult to believe that what
was regarded as a mere pastime should have produced a psychical
state of tension and emotion sufficiently mi generis to account for the
occurrence of such unique effects in healthy persons. May not some-
thing be said for seeking the cause of the unusual effect, or some part
of it, in that part of the prior conditions which was itself unusual-
that is to say, the continued physical contact of the" subject" with a
person who was in a state of concentrated expectancy 1 The cases are
Digitized by Coogle
250 HY]YMtiwm, and Telepathy.
in one way more suggestive of specific influence than some of those of
hypnogeny proper, just because the character of the attouchef1l8flt8 in
their mechanical aspect was so entirely simple and unspecial. When a
person is seen pressing his "subject's" head or body at carefully de-
fined Spots,l or making passes over him in a methodical or elaborate
fashion which professors of the art get money for teaching to others,
one naturally concludes, if remarkable results follow, that the special
place or mode of the manipulation has something to do with it; but
the casual mode and variable place of the touch in these amateur
diversions would lead us to suppose that the contact, if specia.lised at
all, is specialised by the will-force which accompanies it, and in
something other than its mechanical aspect.
INDICATIONS OF A SPBCII'IC INFLUBNCB IN ORDINARY
HYPNOTIC MANIPULATION.
§ 21. But it is naturally in connection with professedly hypnotic
cases that the more conclusive proof of the inadequacy of the mechanical
explanation must be sought-and may, I believe, be found, though to
find it may require a somewhat wider outlook over the hypnotic field
than has been always easy or possible for persons who have been chiefly
occupied with their own experiments. This at any rate applies to a
general argument which I have used before (ProCeedings, Vol. II.,
pp. 289-90), but which is worth repeating, if only that it may, if possible,
be refuted. There clearly could not be a better a fortiori proof of a
specific influence pertaining to the human organism than if it were shown
to be specific in the further sense of pertaining to BOme organisms and
not others. Now the mechanical hypnotic processes, by which it
is cllfltomary to supplement the effect of immobility and a fixed
gaze, should apparently be equally effective whoever appliu them;
whereas, as a matter of fact, different persons exhibit in this
matter very different degrees of efficiency. The processes themselves,
however, need to be carefully distinguished. They consist for the most
part of passes over the upper part of the person, and of pressure on
the globe of the eye, or between the eyes, or on the vertex. It is common
for the hypnotiser to combine the passes and the prtWIUres; but the
grounds of their efficacy are very different. The pressures seem
1 There are, however, profelllledly hypnotic caeea which may very likely beentirely
parallel in character to thoee just cited. Such a case was supplied to me by Mr.
James Gudgeon, of Stowmarket, and completely confirmed in writing by two gentle-
men who witneaaed it. Mr. Mo, a tall and robust man, who had been ridiculing
meamenam and had defied Mr. Gudgeon to meamerile him, in le118 than ten eeconda
after Mr. Gudgeon placed his handa ull his head, ..fell on the floor in a state of perfect
and complete coma." This was followcld by an attack of violent convulsions when
water was thrown over him, and medical aid had to be sought.
Digitized by Coogle
Hypnotism aM Telepathy. 251
undoubtedly to be mechanical in their action: they are applied to
certain particular spo~ and stimulate certain particular nervous foci,
which presumably are intimately connected with the effect, and which
physiologists therefore can label as "bypnogenetic," and then leave;
for physiology does not profess to· do more than assign to special
localities and special tissues their proper functioDl. But the virtue of
putIU cannot be accounted for in any such fashion; for they touch no
specialised springs in the organism. Yet passes were a mode of
operation which physiologists found in possession of the field, identified,
for many years before they took up the subject, with II mesmerism n
and theories of occult influence; and which therefore they could not
avoid recognising and attempting to explain in BODle other way. The
attempt has not been fortunate. It bas consisted simply in treating
passes as one of the forms of " monotonous stimulation," and in assuming
the power of monotonous stimulation to produce hypno~c trance as an
ultimate fact. I am inclined to question both the ultimate fact 1 and ita
application. Out of many possible forms of monotonous stimulation,
only two, seemingly quite arbitrarily selected, have eYer seemed to
have any hypnogenetic efficacy-namely, passes, a form which has very
frequently been employed, and the ticking of a watch, a form which
has comparatively rarely been employed. So far, then, from passes being
explained by being called a. form of monotonous stimulation, the
burden of supporting the credit of monotonous stimulation, as a
hypnogenetic agency, seems to fall almost entirely upon them. Yet an
unprejudiced inspection of the ordinary procedure of passes will really
make it seem a.bsurd to find the peculiarity of their influence in the
cause assigned-for the simple reason tha.t there is often next to no
monotony, and next to no stimulation, about them.
There seems in this matter to have been a confusion of things
which are only superficially alike. Where contacl is employed, as in
gentle strokings and rubbings, the unaccustomed peripheral stimulation,
produced by purely mechanical means, has at any rate a first claim to
be coDlidered the sufficient cause of the result that follows, whether
that result be hypnotic trance or local aDlllllthesia or rigidity. Here,
then (as in C&BeB where actual prelBure is applied to the supposed
hypnogenetic spots), the rival or supplementary hypothesis of a more
apecific influence must depend mainly on the difference (above referred
to) between the capacities of different manipulators, or of the Bame
operator when working with concentration and attention and
when working indifferently and mechanically.lI But passes are
lOn this question lee the remarks of Mr, Myen, Pro«c!lifl{!' of the S.P.R.,Vol.
IV., pp. 145-8, with which I heartily ooucur.
I See PAafttGlsu of eM Liftfl{!. Vol. I., 88; aDd the experienoe of the Fnmch
bJPDOtistI whoee account. are epitomieed above.
Digitized by Coogle
252 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
very frequently made without any contact at all, or with very slight
and irregular contact; so that the" subject," if he shut his eyes, might
be unconscious that they were going on or that they were going on
with any regularity. The stimulation, therefore, if anything, must be
opticr1. But as the "subject's" eyes are frequently fixed on something
e1se,1 and not on the operator, the fact that the arms of the latter are
moving more or less rhythmically within his field of vision could hardly
overpower his organs in any specific manner, even if the movement
were uninterrupted and long continued. This, however, is rarely the
case: as a rule the procedure conforms rather to the practice of Dr.
Lilllieault, who has probably hypnotised more persons in the coune of
his life than any other operator, and with whom (as Mr. Myers has
justly observed) "the passes and touches made are brief and variable."
On the whole, then, so far as mere passes without contact can be held
to be effective, the fact is a positive and direct argument in favour of a
specific physical influence.
INDICATIONS OF A SPECIFIC INFLUENCE IN THERAPEUTICAL CASES.
§ 22. So far, however, we have not got beyond cases where the
"subject's" own mental state is,or may be, one of the conditions involved.
We may suspect that the importance of this condition has been sometimes
exaggerated. It is very difficult, for instance, sweepingly to attribute
the different degrees of success or unsuccess of different operators in
entrancing, stiffening, anresthetising, &c., to the "suhject's" varying
moods of belief or distrust; for it is not a monopoly of those who
succeed as hypnotists to inspire the emotions of faith and expectation,
which, before their success, they themselves are often far from
feeling; while those very emotions have often been brought to
bear on other operators, or other proposed mean'!! of alleviation, without
having any result. Still, complete exclusion of the subjective factor
will no doubt add indefinitely to the force of the evidence. The
exclusion will tie us down to experiments of very special types.
.AB a rule, of course, contact must be wholly avoided; for it could
hardly fail to reveal to the .. subject" what is being attempted.
There is, however, one class of persons with whom this objection does
not apply-namely, very young children; and I will begin with evidence
drawn from that class.
1 Thia fixation of the eyes cannot itself be classed &8 one of the efficacious modes of
monotonous stimulation, sincE' the speciality of it, &II Braid observed and taught, is the
strain caused by the particular position of the eyeballs; and the concurrent stimula-
tion of the retina by light is, for hypnogenetic purposes, a mere aocident. It is worth
noting that, as regards actual entrancement, the fact that the .. subject," by hU
fixation of his eyes, may be distinctly contributing to his own hypnotiution, tends to
mask the difference in the capacities of different operators, which (as we shall !let' a
!ittl" later) i8 better displayed in local and therapeutical effects.
igitized by Goog
Hypnotism aM Telepathy. 253
As usual, one has to deplore the lack of exhaustive experiments.
The very last quality that competent peraons can be expected to bring
to bear on any hypothesis connected in their eyes with the mesmeric
heresy is patience; and patience is undoubtedly required to devote
ten minutes of laying-on of hands to each of a long series of su1fering
infants. As far as I know, Dr. LiQ)eanlt, of Nancy, is the only well-
known practitioner who has taken this amount of pains;1 and his con-
clusions are the more valuable in that they are opposed to the view
maintained hy him previously for many years-that the therapeutical
influence of hypnotism is always and wholly a matter of suggestion
and imagination. In his Et?Uk sur Ie ZoomagnetinM (Paris, Masson,
1883), he describes experiments with 46 sick children of four years old
and nnder (the large majority being under three), in all of which
some amelioration, and in moat very distinct amelioration, followed his
manipulation. The cases are not all of a crucial kind, the ailment having
sometimes simply been diarrhrea or failure of appetite, which might have
been about to mend in any case. But the cumulative force of the record
cannot be denied; and some of the individual cases are striking enough.
One interestingfeature was the frequent production ofaleep,either during
tae contact or after it at unusual times, or for an unusual length of time.
Thna, one child aged three and a-half, on returning home, slept for
17 hours consecutively, and even then did not wake spontaneously.
Another, aged one year, had been crying day and night for four weeks,
with snatches of sleep of only five or six minutes, owing to obstinate
colic and constipation. "During one of her short sleeps, and conse-
quently without her consciousness, I prolonged this condition, keeping
my hands on her for 20 minutes, till she showed signs of waking.
From that moment the crying stopped, as if by magic; she slept during
a great part of the night, and when she was brought next day ahe
was quiet, and the constipation had been relieved." I have not space
for further citations; but as to the result&, it will be noted that they at
least sufficed to bring a man whom none that know him will accuse of
pretension or exaggeration, and who had long pursued the path of
orthodoxy, to a candid confession of the belief that "the organic
changes produced must have been due to a transDlitted nervous
influence." He considers the aJ.ternative hypothesis, that the
effects were due to the heat of his hands; but not only had
the children been kept warm-and were probably as warm
J Dr. Li4!beault attributel the idea of his own experiments to inform&tion of
.imil&r8UOOIIII88 which he received from a M. Lougpretz of Lillge; and in part; &lao to
the account given long ago by Dupotet (without sufficient det&il for lcientific PUrpolel)
of movements and contractions which he induced in sleeping children by movements
of his own lumd in proximity to their bodiea, in spite often of the intervention of the
bed-e1othee.
Digitized by Coogle
254 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
as his ha.nds when he touched them -but, as he remarks,
they "had often remained for long hours in their mothers' hands,
without any amelioration." Thus the results, if they prove specific
influence at all, would go to prove a.n influence which is specific not
only in the sense of being peculiar to living organisms, but in the
further sense of appertaining to particular individuals.
IlIDICATIONS OF A 8PECIFIC INFLUENCE IN THE PRODUCTION
OF LOCAL EFFECTS.
§ 23. To pass now to experiments with oldt'r persons, where contact
must be a.voided. These could hardly ever take the ordinary form of
entrancement; for it would be difficult so to arrange conditions that
passes should be continuously made near a person's face without his
knowledge, and consent. The waking from trance can, no doubt, be
carried out in this manner; and I have myself on a good many
occasions seen a "subject" awakened by gentle upward passes,
not near enough to his face or head, one would have thought,
to produce any sensible current of air.! But by far the most
crucial cases known to me have been of the local sort-specific
effects produced, without entrancement, in some special part of the body,
which the "subject" did not know was going to be operated on.
Experiments of this sort h&\"e been already described in these Pro-
ceedings,. and a further account of them is given at the end of my
other paper in the present number (pp" 14-17).
There seem to be only two possible ways in which the" subject's"
finger could have felt the proximity of Mr. Smith's hand-(l) by
currents of air due to the passes; and (2) by a sense of warmth-Mr.
Smith's hand being warmer than the surrounding air. Such perception
would have involved very decided hyperresthesia. in persons with
tolerably pachydermatous hands, who (it must be remembered) were in
a normal not a hypnotic state. I made trials once with three co-ex-
perimenters, and none of us could in the slightest degree detect similar
passes made over our own fingers: and the "subjects" professed a
similar ignorance. Still, the possibility of hyperresthesia. needed to be
! Berger and Gscheidlen have described the tranaCormation of natural into
hypnotic sleep by the holding the hand near the sleeper's head. Gscheidlen pro-
C_ to have succeeded in 8 C&Be8 out of 15--the test oC the change oC state being
that the sleeper no longer reacted. to the tickling of the soles of his feet (_ the
DeuucM Medicif&iIcM WocAmlc~rift Cor 1880, pp. 92-3, and Malten's Der Magnd~
&Ala!, p. 13). Berger, however, says that warm meW plates produced the eame
effect-one of the startling statements, too numerous in the history of hypnotism,
which seem never to have been confirmed by other observers. Berger's account of the
stiffening of a sleeping person's arm by p&88e8 closely resembles a case which I have
observed (Pt'OCeeding' of the S.P.R., VoL I., pp. 2Ei9-60; but in Berger's caae the
effect was produced through the clothes).
igitized by Goog
Hypnotism and Telepathy. !55
faced. In many of the earlier trials, to prevent the detection of Mr.
Smith's passes by currents of air, someone else made similar and
simultaneous passes over another finger. But it might still be objected
that some imperceptible difference in the manner of making the pa.aaes
produced differences in the currents of air, and a far better method
which I have employed in all the later trials (as well as in a few of the
earlier ones) is to dispense with passes altogether. Mr. Smith has held
his hand perfectly still, at a distance varying from a third of
an inch to two inches, over the selected finger; and the
diminution of sensibility, though less in degree than when
passes were made, has in nearly every case been quite unmistaka.ble,
while in nearly all the cases the rigidity has been sufficient to prevent
the finger from being quickly flexed.l Here, then, the only means
of direct perception left open seems to be warmth. Perception by this
means would involve hyperresthesia in an extreme degree; and in this
connection I may mention that a scientific friend at Cambridge (whose
results will in time, I trust, be published) tells me that he has produced
similar. effects, under similar conditions, with two sheets of glass
between his hand and that of the" subject." But I believe that I have
sufficiently guarded against the conveyance of information through
warmth by holding my own hand, at the same distance as Mr. Smith's,
o~er another of the" subject's" fingers. After we have been for some
time together in a warm room, Mr. Smith's hand and mine do not
perceptibly differ in temperature; yet mine rarely produced any effect
on the" subject." But perhaps the best proof that the result is not
connected with perception of temperature is the fact described in my
other paper (p. 16), that the proximity of Mr. Smith's hand
produced no effect if he willed that no effect should be produced.
Another fact of great significance is that I have now got two of the
"subjects" on whom these recent experiments have been made to
attend to their sensations during the process. They used to profess un-
consciousness of any change whatever; but they are now sometimes able
to detect which finger has been the subject of experiment by what they
describe as a slight feeling of cold. That this should be the direct
effect of the proximity of someone else's warm hand seems inconceiv-
able, especially since the feeling lasts after the hand is removed; but
it is perfectly easy to account for as a secondary result of the increas-
ing nwnbness and loss of normal sensibility. It should be noted
further that the effect was removed in just the same manner-that is
to say, the proximity of Mr. Smith's hands was effective on a finger
which had just proved insensitive to pretty vigorous pricks, and would
not therefore be likely to be extraordinarily hypersensitive to warmth.
1 In two CIIoIIe8 the corresponding finger on the other hand, and in a third case an
adjacent finger, was al80 slightly afleeted.
256 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
§ 24. Now here what hypotheses are left as alternatives to that of
direct influence1 May the idea of the selected finger be conveyed to some
" unconscious" part of the .. subject's" mind by thought-transference,
and there produce an expectation of anathesia and rigidity which
works out the appropriate results 7 This seems excluded by the fact
that the physical proximity of Mr. Smith's hand (no less than his
concentration of will on the desired result) proves to be a
necessary condition: the effects do not follow if he simply stands and
wills their oc~urrence. Consequently the .. unconscious" perception
will have to include the discerning of the approach or proximity of
Mr. Smith's hand; and this, combined with the certainty of the
results and the fact that the" subjects" have shown little or no apti-
tude for thought-transference in other forms, is a strong reason for
supposing the mode of communication to be physical, not psychical. 1
The alternative, then, to the ltypothesis of a direct influence seems to
be that an .. unconscious" discernment through the finger's ordinary
sensory apparatus is followed by .. unconscious" expectation of
particular physiological results, which in tum is followed by those
results. Of this hypothesis I can only say that it seems to me ex-
travagantly improbable, for four reasons. (1) It attributes to .. un-
conscious" expectation an effect which conscious expectation cannot
bring about. I have on a good many occasions led the II subjects" to
believe that a particular finger was being operated on, when it was
not; but no change in its condition ever ensued. Still, I would not
press this particular point too far; as we are, not justified in assuming
an exact similarity between the capacities of the conscious and "un-
conscious" divisions of the mind. A more serious objection is (2) that
even in the .. unconscious" mind expectations cannot form without
some grounds; and before confidence was established by experience,
the" subjects" were much more likely to expect that they UJO'Ul.d feel
the very sharp inflictions to which their fingers were submitted than
that they would not. This specially applies to a female "subject" of
very nervous temperament, who had no acquaintance with the physical
phenomena of hypnotism, and who was ready to shriek at the very
idea of a prick on her fingers.2 (3) The initial supposition, that a
person whose conscious self is unaware of certain faint stimuli
is .. unconsciously" hyperresthetic , to those very stimuli, seems to
me wholly unsupported and extremely dubious. And (4) the in-
effectiveness of Mr. Smith's hand unless his will was also engaged
1 The particular _ in which I WI8 thlllM! warda, and the word II unconscious,"
WM explained above (pp. 225 and 233).
t I waa only able to have half a dozen trials with this II subject," M her fingera.
whf'll stabbed. bled to an extent which made me fear that they would cause her sub-
sequent pain or annoyance.
Digitized by Coogle
HyzmotiBm and Telepathy. 257
seems alone fatal to the hypothesis. I conclude, therefore, that
the balance of probability is greatly in favour of a. direct physical
influence in which the ordinary channels of sense are not con-
cerned. Whether this conclusion be right or wrong, I earnestly hope
that the experiments may be widely repeated by persons who have
proved themselves effective hypnotisers; for no conceivable explanation
of the facta could deprive them of their exceptional interest.
ALLEGED TBANSnBBNCB OF HYSTERICAL APl'BCTIONS.
§ 25. There is one other alleged type of effect produced by physical
proximity, without sensory communication, which deserves mention,
though it has not yet) I think, been quite conclusively tested. Dr.
Babinski, of the Sal~triere, believes himself, and is believed by Dr.
Charcot and otber authorities, to have established the fact that a
hysterical affection, produced in one" subject" by hypnotic suggestion,
can be transferred to another" subject," not in contact with the first,
under the in1luence of a neighbouring magnet. The French IKJvanta do
not seem completely aware how absolutely different such a phenomenon
would be from those to which they compare it-the widely-a.lleged effect
of a magnet in transferring hysterical affections from one side of the
body to the other; but this is unimportant provided only they prove
their facts. The objection to some, at any rate, of their experiments
is that sufficient account does not seem to have been taken of the acute-
ness and cunning which hysterical women may bring to bear in some
well-defined channel, while ostensibly in a state of hypnotic lethargy
and inattention; without intending to deceive in any wa.y involving
real responsibility, such persons Inay still be quite capable of detecting
what the expected effects are, and of producing them by clever
collusion and simulation. This, however, is now becoming better
realised; and I can vouch for the striking result of one trial, in which
Dr. Babinski was good enough to allow Mr. Myers and myself to
arrange the conditions. The two "subjects" were placed in two
rooms separated by a thick door; and a strong contracture of the foot
produced in one of them certainly reappeared iu the other. The only
flaw was that the woman first affected made an exclamation in which
the word pied occurred; but she did not speak loud, and the remark
was quite inaudible to normal ears on the other side of the door, where
a good deal of noise was going on.
NERVOUS INDUCTION.
§ 26. And now a final word as to what the nature of the specific
inBuence in these various results can be supposed to be. If it exists,
as a property of living tissue, there can be no doubt, I think, that the
8
Digitized by Coogle
258 Hypnotism and Telepathy.
tissue concerned is that of the nerves. This would be a probable
surmise from the analogy of electrical induction, and from the affinity
supposed to exist between nervous and electric current&-an affinity
which would be manifest, even apart from the electrical properties of
nervous currents, in the mere fact that the nerves are the only part of
the body through which anything of at all the nature of a current (in
the physical sense) pasaes. But a stronger argument is that immediate
dependence of the inftuence on the brain, which is strongly suggested
by nearly all the caaea. As I have said, the proximity of Mr. Smith's
hand to the IC subject's" finger proved as ineffective, unless his attention
was likewise concentrated, as his attention and IC will " had been without
the aid of his band; and exacUy the same proximity of the hand which
produe«l the effect also in BOme casea renwved it-the oIily change
being in the operator's intention. Similarly in the IC willing-game ..
cases, the agent's concentration seemed to be the express condition of
the ourious effect; and whether or not the same can be stated of Dr.
Li~beault's therapeutical successes, it has at any rate been widely
observed by other hypnotisers. It would seem, therefore, that the
nerve-currents must receive their specific character, in part at any rate,
from the character of the cerebration which accompanies this concen-
tration; and, if BO, then the influence is clearly physiological in cha-
racter, not merely in the sense of belonging to a living tissue as such,
but in the sense of being evoked at special moments by a speoial form
of vital action. It has no analogy, for instance, to the alleged effects
of partioular substances, such as metals, applied to the human body;
nor is it due to a material emanation with peculiar properties, such as
would come into play if the effect were produced through the organ of
amell. Though finding its nearest analogue in induced electric currents,
and though best, perhaps, described as nervous induction, it is essen-
tially vital and BUi g6fWriB.
§ 27. This very general statement is all, I think, that can be
advanced with any positiveness. As soon as we try to analyse the
processes further, our means fail. The cases described,though they agree
in pointing to the power of one organism specifically to affect another, are
puzzlingly different in their details. Dr. Li~ult considered that the
nervous inftuence which he brought to bear IC re-established the physio-
logical functioning" of his IC subject's II organs. But how little
apparent relation suoh a. result has to the hysterical disturbances of
the willing-game, or to the stiffening and anathetising of a young man's
fingers ! As to all difficulties of this BOrt, it seems enough for the
present to remark that they ought not to be regarded as affecting in
the slightest degree the general question as to cause and effect. Inas-
muoh as our ignorance concerning the details of the nervous governance
of the human organism is very nearly complete in respect of p~
Digitized by Coogle
H'!JP'OOtWm aua Telepathy. 259
where the fact of the governance is universally admitted, the absence
of a satisfactory physiological account of the intermediate atagea ought
not to weigh a feather in the decision whether the ostensible affection of
one organism in some unknown way by the proximity of another is
demonstrated or demonstrable by evidence. That, even if the general
fact were incontrovertibly established, its various modes of manifesta.-
tion and their complete physiological history should remain obscure is
exactly what we should a priori expect. I will only add that cases of
the Salpetriere type, and C8B8B of a sanative influence produced by an
operator who is himself in vigorous health, would accord with the view
advanced above as to the transmission (supposing it to have any
physical basis) of telepathic impressions,-namely, that the proceBB
resembles those where a physical force, acting by vibrations through a
medium, reproauca itself at a distance in its original form, as in the
case of sympathetic tuning-forks or induced magnetism. The resem-
blance does not hold, however, in the other results-e.g., in the finger
experiments, where the hand operated on aBBumes a quite different
condition from that of the band that operates; and so far as the
evidence supports a definite view, it points to another or a further
process than the sympathetic or simply reproductive, as involved in
many of the cases of BU~ry transference where the organisms
concerned are in close proximity to one another. I cannot forecast
whether science will ever address itself with SUCOOBB to such problems
as these. I should be content if any of my readers were led to regard
as within the possibility of scientific acceptance the broad fact that
certain BUpersenaory and non-mechanical transferences take place
which belong to the domain of physical and physiological, and not
merely of psychical, research. In the scientific world, such trans-
ferences probably stand a better chance of consideration as examples
of "nervous induction" than as a branch of telepg,thy.
B 2
Digitized by Coogle
260 Oritical Notices.
V.
CRITICAL NOTICES.
Preliminary Report of the CommiBWm appointed by the UniW'l'fttll oj
Penmylvcmia to Investigate Modern Spiritualism, in acconl~
with the BeqtUJ8t ofthe late Henry Seybert. (Philadelphia, 1887.)
" The late Mr. Henry Seybert," we are here told, "during his life-
time was known as an enthusiastic believer in Modern Spiritualism, and
shortly before his death presented to the University of Pennsylvania a
sum of money sufficient to found a chair of Philosophy, and to the gift
added a condition that the University should appoint a commission to
investigate' all systems of morals, religion, or philosophy which assume
to represent the truth, and particularly of Modern Spiritualism.' The
amount of the bequest is not here mentioned; but it has elsewhere
been stated as 60,000 dollars,-by far the largest sum of money which
has as yet been destined by a testator. to support an iaquiry into
Spiritualism and cognate topics. A commission was established in
1884, and we have here its preliminary RepOrt, consisting mainly of
accounts of seances with professional mediums who respondecl to the
Commission's advertisement. As the book is nofprovided with index
or table of contents, the following abstract may be of service:-
Pages 27-29 and 31, 32.-Sittings with Mrs. Patterson.-Nothing
that could not easily be explained by fraud. She managed to work a
piece of slate-pencil out from between loosely-fastened slates in her
own control. Dr. Knerr, by the adroit use of a small pocket-mirror,
saw her writing on a slate under the table. It would seem that she
then had both hands under the table. (p. 121.)
Pages 29-31 and 93, 94.-Mr. Fred Briggs as medium.-Possibly the
ordinary trick of the one-handed grip, simulating a grasp of both
hands; but this is not made clear.
Pages 33-48.-Mrs. Kane (one of the Fox sisters).-Raps heard
close to the medium; could easily have been produced.
Pages 49-51.-Mrs. Patterson. - Alleged slate-writing; slates
obviously opened by medium.
Pages 51-77.--Dr. Slade.-Substitution of slates and fraudulent
writing on slates. Easily detected. Mr. Truesdell's book, Bottom Faa.
0/ Spiritualism, should be read in conuection with Slade's
performances. Dr. Slade appears (p. 70) to have practically ad-
mitted to Dr. Furness that his "manifestations" were fraudulent.
Digitized by Coogle
I
J
.American Report on Spiri,tUali8'ln. 261
II I said to him, ' Well, and how are the old spirits coming on t '
Whereupon he la.ughed and replied, , Oh, psha.w! you never believed
in them, did you"" See also Mr. Truesdell's book,a.s to Slade's voluntary
and involuntary admissions. After all this, few will be inclined to
attach much weight to S1a.de's performances with Zollner. As to these
experiments, Professor Fullerton ha.s collected nrious testimonies
(pp. 104-115) which (though Mr. Ma.ssey, in an II Open Letter to Pr0-
fessor Fullerton," ha.s pointed out some strainings of the evidence) do
undoubtedly much diminish the weight prima facie attaching to the
names of the German 8a1lM&t8 who conducted the investigation.
Pages 79-82.-Mrs. Maud Lord.-The sitters were touched in the
dark, &c., but the medium's hands were free.
Pages 82-87.-Mr. Keeler.-This wa.s, perhaps, a case of the ordinary
one-handed grip; though the medium cannot be said to have been
detected. Mr. Ma.ssey ha.s dwelt on the imperfection in the proof; and
this, so far a.s I have seen, is th~ only definite criticism on the Com-
mission's negative conclusions which ha.s proceeded from the Spiritual-
istic camp.
Pages. 87-90.-Rothermel and Powell.-Tapes on wrists apparently
cut by medium during seance.
Page 95 -Mrs. Beat.-Alleged materialisation with no test; medium
not secured.
Pages 96-101.-Mrs. Thayer.-Flowers fall in the dark in premises
over which the medium ha.s control, and which no one examines.
Pages 101-2.-Mrs. Wells.-Materialisation-no tests. [This
medium ha.s since been caught personating a spirit, a.s the Religio-
PMlosophical Journal informs us.]
Pages 124-7.-CafFray pretends to magnetise blotting-paper (at a
dolla.r a meet) which will make Dr. Furness a medium. Dr. Furness
wears it next to his akin for six months, whilst Bitting daily with a
view to development a.s a medium, but without result. " I had used
enough blotting-paper, it seemed to me, to absorb a spot in the sun."
Pages 128-147.-Manmeld and other answerers of sealed letters.-
The letters are opened before they are answered; if they cannot be
opened they are not answered.
These are the main experiments described, and few readers will
dispute the conclusion arrived at, namely, that thus far the Commission
have witnessed nothing that wa.s not easily explicable by fraud. The
amount of work thus far done may seem to have spread over a some-
what disproportionate time (three years), but those who have had
practical experience of inquiries of this sort will recognise their tedious
and time-wa.sting cha.ra.cter. This Report is avowedly preliminary, and
it may be hoped that the Commission will now see their way to a some-
what wider construction of their duties under the Seybert bequest. It
igitized by Goog
262 OrUical NotWe8.
is to be wished that they should take in hand certain perplexing
phenomena which do admittedly occur, but which need not be inter-
preted in the Spiritualistic sense. Automatic writing is one of the best-
marked of these; and a systematic investigation of the mechanism and
content of automatic messages would fall, I think, fairly within the
limits of the stipulated inquiry, and could hardly fail to yield important
psychological lessons. It is not 80 much upon the crude imposture of
hirelings, as upon the delicate and perplexing-but not neceesariJy
Spiritualistic-phenomena which patience and care will elicit in many
trustworthy quarters that the attention of the Commission might now,
I venture to think, be profitably turned. With so ample a bequest to
work upon, it would probably be possible to visit places even at a
distance from Philadelphia from which unusual phenomena of this kind
might be reported.
For the present, however, we must take the book as it stands, and
consider what practical conclusions are to be drawn from it. In the
first place, and speaking from the point of view of those who, like our-
selves, continue anxious that "the phenomen"lo called Spiritualistic"
should be patiently and carefully examined, the effect of this book
will certainly be to emphasise the conclusion to which various papers
published in our Proceedings have already pointed, namely, that
investigation with paid professional mediums can seldom offer a prospect
of rual instruction sufficient to compensate for the time expended, and
the danger of countenancing folly, and subsidiaing fraud. Private
experiment there should certainly be,-more careful and systematic
than has yet been managed,-but, as a general rule at least, paid
mediums, both in England and America, should be given a wide berth.
On Spiritualists, again, this little book should have a powerful
effect. Here are several revelations of vulgar, unblushing fraud, such
as must make the ears of honest believers to tingle. Surely their first
aim should be to denounce such fraud, to disgrace the guilty persons, to
purge the Spiritualistic faith of all complicity with this base and
crawling imposture. Surely those who believe that they have genuine
phenomena to which they can point, communications from departed
spirits whose intrinsic contents prove them beyond the power
of trickery to produce, should now be doubly anxious to put this
evidence carefully and straightforwardly before the world.
It cannot be said that evidence of this kind, if offered, will now be
ignored, although it may be analysed with more strictness than in daya
when Spiritualistic phenomena interested the group of convinced
Spiritualists alone. In America, besides the Seybert Commission,
there is the American Society for Psychical Research, of which Mr.
Richard Hodgson is now the secretary. And in our English Society
for Psychical Research we have a committee, nominated by our late
Digitized by Coogle
J
BY8tbo-~ MaBC'Idine. 263
deeply-regretted President, Professor Balfour Stewart, formed for the
express purpose of receiving and considering evidence of this nature.
That committee includes such names as those of M.r. Crookes and
Professor Barrett (its secretary), who will not be suspected of hostile
bias; and we may surely hope that should any .. Spiritualistic"
phenomena, physical or psyChlcal, be observed under good conditions by
persons anxious that such phenomena should be fully and fairly
investigated, they will give us the opportunity if possible of witnessing,
or at any rate of recording and discussing them.
F.W.H.M.
H,~ MaBCUline: Suggution, Inhibition, Tra~ au
SMlII. Prof. FOIfTAN, of Toulon, in RefJU6 Pkilo.opkiqus, August,
1887.
The paper whose title is given above was communicated to the
Societe de Psychologie Physiologique in 1886, but is now printed, I
believe, for the first time. It is of the highest importance for our in-
quiries; and I propose. therefore, to analyse it pretty fully, and to add
a few comments and suggestions.
The subject, B., is a sailor, aged 22, apparently robust, but suffering
from hysteria, with attacb of catalepsy,-the result, apparentlY,9f a
sojourn in Madagascar. When he came under Dr. Fontan'. care his
left side was wholly devoid of feeling, and the sense of smell was
absent on that side; sight and hearing diminished; taste normal. A
hysterogenous zone on the right side remained unaffected by any
treatment. Hypnotic suggestion suspended the anathesia for a few
hours at a time, but the magnet, and the magnet only, removed it per
manently, and practically cured the patient. It is hard froJD Dr.
Fontan's account (p. 214) to suppose that. the magnet's influence in this
case can have been merely imaginary.
Metals do not seem to have specifically afFected the patient. One
curious experiment, tried with gold, belongs properly to the category of
post.hypnotic suggestions. 0B. was told in the hypnotic state that gold
would burn him after he awoke. He was then awoke and touched
with various metals, which he could not see. When touched with gold
he complained that it burnt him, but he did not in his waking state
recognise what the metal touching him was. We must suppose that
his hypnotic personality (so to say), persisting through his waking per-
sonality, recognised the gold; but it would be hard to say whether the
gold was recognised by a hyperathetic perception of its ordinaryqualities
of weight and temperature (and thus distinguished from iron, nickel,
Digitized by Coogle
264 Oritical Notices.
tin, silver, and aluminium, which were also applied), or whether some
still deeper potentiality of sensation was reached by the hypnotic aug-
gestion, and the gold was recognised, not by its ordinary qualitiell,
but by a direct susceptibility to gold as gold.
The effect of medicaments at a distance was tried with results which
Professor Fontan considers conclusive j though the number of experi-
ments was rather small, on account of the rapid fatigue of the subject
after two or three aubstances had been tried on each occasion. Verba!
suggestions and even thought-transference, seem to have been carefully
avoided. In some of the caaea, but not in all, it seems as though
the subject might possibly have smelt the substance employed.
We now come to the so-called II transposition of the
aenaea." And here a few preliminary remarks are needed. Pr0-
fessor Fontan apologiaea for the detail in which his observations
are given, and adds, II Ceux qui liaont noa experiences penaeront
BanS doute, comme ceux qui y ont aaaisM, qu'ellea ont eU auffisamment
rigoureuaea." I think, however, that many English readers will feel
that even ,newe detail would have been welcome, and that it would
have been well to record and number each experiment separately, and
to add independent accounts from the several observers.I For if these
phenomena actually occurred,-and aaauredly the testimony as it atands
is definite and clear,-we have here an epoch-making case j a revival,
under modem scientific scrutiny, of " cmaa of marvela which half a
century ago seemed well attested, but which have gradually faded from
belief on account of the impoaaibility of renewing them. And thus we
ahall find ourselves embarked on a current where it is hard to atop.
There is no clear line of demarcation between the so-called II trans-
position of aenaea" which Dr. Fontan recorda and some of the moat
advanced wonders of II clairvoyance."
Nor is it the imp0rtGnc6 of the experiments alone which thus calla
for full detail in recounting them. Their extreme and ill-understood
comple:x:ity equally demands that every scrap of information possible
should be given. We do not know in such cases what to observe j for
we do not know how to attach these supernormal sensations to any
ordinary operation of the senses. We know not how many different
causes may be involved j we can observe, but as yet we cannot interpret.
Our rUutM of Dr. FontaD's experiments will illustrate these difficulties.
Trtmlporition of heGring.-B. was placed in somnambulic trance j
it was suggested to him not to hear with his ears, but to hear with the
fingers of his right hand. Now if a real psychical deafness were im-
posed, but the ears were not stopped, the subject might hear only when
1 Dr. Fontan bas kindly _t me tbe namee of moat of tbe wimt!lll88, which I am
., libeny to oommunicr.te. if deaired.
Digitized by Coogle
HYBtbo-lpilepBie Masculine. 265
the hand was spoken to, but yet hear with his ears in the ordinary way,
the psychical deafness (which is all that suggestion can inspire) being
removed for the time by the suggestion that he could, in fact, hear
when his band was addressed. This would, of course, be in no way
marvellous. Dr. Fontan, however, securely stopped'the ears, besides
imposing by suggestion a psychical deafness which appeared complete. He
then drew together the fingers of B.'s right hand, placed them near his
own lips (out of the subject's sight), and said (so low that no one
present heard it), CI Sens-tu l'odeur de la pipe'" B. seemed attentive;
looked with curiosity at his five fingers, and after a moment's reflection
murmured, as though speaking to each finger in tum, CI Bens-tu l'odeur
de "-then stopped, and indicated that since only five fingers bad been
aft"ected, only five syllables could be heard. Dr. Fontan thereupon drew
B.'s ten fingers together, and murmured a phrase of ten syllables, which
B. repeated correctly. The experiment was repeated several times, and it
sometimes bappened that B. failed to perceive the words distinctly.
He would then murmur the supposed syllable at the end of the refra.c.
tory finger; if he said it rightly he seemed satisfied, if wrongly he
would bite his finger~nds and get so excited that it was necessary to
hypnotise him into tranquillity. Sometimes, again, he made a sign that
he understood what WaR said to his fingers, but would not repeat it.
To meet this refusal B. was called upon to touch on a printed alphabet
individual letters which were whispered (or muttered, it is not clear
which) to his fingers. CI He looked for the letter which answered to
each of his fingers, observing the order in which it had ~n pronounced,
and found it with the end (pulpe) of the finger affected. If be was
uncertain, he hesitated, tried the letter with his finger as though to
confirm the auditory by the tactile impression, and ended by finding the
right letter."
These details, though inexplicable, are plainly important. Of
course, when we are first told that a man hears with his fingers, we
think of the analogy of the partially-deaf man who may be said to IIMIf'
toUA his Iuth; who uses his teeth, that is to say, to collect (by a rod
held in the mouth) the sonorous vibrations around him, which are then
transmitted by the skull to the internal ear. It is not, however, at all
clear that supernormal audition such as B.'s is effected in an analogous
way. As we proceed we shall see that here, too (as in so many of the
older cases), what is suggested is no true "1J1H1'YUtltui&-no mere
exaggeration of the normal functions of peripheral nerv~ndings-but
rather some rudimentary pr.mtU1haria, some inexplicable capacity of
ne"~ndings to recognise vibrations which they are not apparently
contrived to interpret. Dr. Fontan uses the term CI.fu.rio'n of imprea-
sions," and it will be seen from what follows that we cannot be sure
that the touch of the fingers upon the printed letters was not a quasi-
Digitized by Coogle
266 Oritical Notices.
visual rather than a tactile aid to the recognition of the transmitted
sound.
Note, however, that thus far the hypothesis of thought-transference
would cover the ground. The words and letters were known to Dr.
Fontan, and might conceivably have been telepathically transmitted to
B., whose fumbling with the printed letters would then only represent
a confused internal grasp of the transposed image. It will be seen that
subsequent experiments make this view improbable; but, nevertheless,
it would be desirable in every case of supernormal sensation to try
whether a mere telepathic transfer of thought or feeling can be effected.
For just as hypenesthesia is one of our starting-points from which to
approach the problems of clairvoyance, so is telepathy another.
Tra1l8porition of taste and nnell.-It was suggested to B. that he
could not smell with his nose, but only with the palms of his hands.
He was awoke, and it was found that ammonia did not affect hia
nostrils. (This psychical ano.nnia is of course easily tested by the
absence of manifest irritation, watering of eyes, &c.) The subject'.
nose, moreover, was pinched .by an assistant, while the smelling
power of the palms was tested. Drops of odorous liquids were
then placed on the palma, outside the subject's field of vision, and
duly recognised. Dr. Fontan informs me that the sense of smell was
apparently referred to the nose, and the sense of taste to the mouth, the
subject making grimaces which indicated this; but" he felt also very
vivid, perhaps specific, sensations in his 1umd8, which he showed by
wiping or scratching them, or wishing to wash them" (after the drops
of odorous liquid or pinches of sapid powder had been applied).
A similar suggestion was made as to taste j and powders of hi&.
muth, chalk, flour, quinine, alum, sugar, salt were placed in his palm
out of his sight. He recognised the tastes,-felt no taste when the
powder was insipid. He said that alum was "lpre et sec," and stuck
his lips to his gums; so that here too (as already implied) he seems
to some extent to have referred the taste to the apJ.ropriate organ.
Note, however, that lips and gums have no true sense of ttute, and
that the" picotement dans Ie nez" (which he felt after ammonia in
the hBnd) is not truly smell.
It is interesting to compare these results with those obtained tele-
pathically by some of ourselves (Proceedings, Vol. II., p. 3, &0.), the
agent holding the substance in his mouth, and the percipient describing
it (of course without seeing the agent's face). Thus we have alum
trsted by Mr. Guthrie, and telepathically felt by Miss R. as follows :-
" A taste of ink, of iron, of vinegar. I felt it on my lips-it is as if
I had been eating alum." 1
1 See al80 Proc«difl(/', III., p. 4M, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
I
Hy8tero-~ Masculim. 26'1
TrcmBpOBition of Bight is of course the moat bewildering of theae
supernormalities. We seem here to be overriding the lack not only of
physiological but of physical adaptation, dispensing not only with the
specially percipient retina but with the lMv, indispensable for the mere
purpose of refracting the incident rays, ao that they may meet in ..
focus and give a distinct image. Dr. Font&D, indeed, says that he
would not have thought of trying theae visual experiments at a.ll, had
it not been for the fumbling of B.'s fingers on the printed letters, as
already described. It was suggested to the subject that he could only
see with his fingers, and the psychical blindness waa reinforced by
placing a screen close to the subject's face, ao that he could not see
his own hands, nor the objects offered, nor the faces or gestures of the
bystanders.
Printed letters were first tried; and the subject, who could scarcely
read in his normal state, deciphered a few of theae with difficulty. A
number of skeins of coloured wool, which he had never seen, were then
placed before him, and he waa told to choose the red ones. He felt the
wools, rejected unhesitatingly the colours not asked for, and arranged
the red in a series. He did this alao with the green and with the blue
wools. The wools were again mixed, and he waa told to put the red
ones on the right, the green on the left. But he waa now exhausted
and recognised nothing.
The same experiments were repeated next ~y, with fresh speci-
mens of wooL And next the room was completely darkened, B.'a
hand was placed in a box containing various patterns of wool, which
he had never either seen or touched, and he waa told to choose the
blue ones. "He seized them," says Dr. Font&D, in a letter rather
more detailed than the printed account, "with such rapidity, such
force, tossing aside all those which he did not want, that we sup-
posed that the experiment had failed. Shut up in a dark room,
where we could not see each other, we did not know what waa
going on, and fearing aome access of frenzy, I precipitated myself
on the subject and hypnotised him strongly, by pressing the globes
of his eyes. He bad had time enough during this scene, which did
not last five seconds, to choose the wools, and to hide them in his
bosom. At no other time did he show such eagerness for the sug-
gested colour." He ,had, in fact, selected four blue skeins, which he
clutched so closely that he had to be altogether inhibited before
they could be taken from him.
The next experiment was perhaps the best of all The wools were
placed on .. table tmder a strong shut of glass. B. (psychically blinded
and with the screen interposed) placed his hand on the glass, and waa
ordered to indicate the red wooL He resisted for ..time, but" ended by
oonaenting to search for the red wools, whose position he indicated by
Digitized by Coogle
268 Oritical Notices.
a tap on the glass which left no room for doubt." He repeated this
process I18veral times with the green, the blue, and the yellow wools,
and always with complete success.
Once more. Five photographs, of which one only was of a child,
were placed on the table, and he was told to find the child's photograph.
CI He felt the faces, turned them with head upwards, felt over the child's
figure carefully, and gave the photograph to me correctly."
The experiments had reached this point, when they were put an end
to by the patient's recovery of health, and consequent loss of sensi-
tiveness. As already mentioned, it was the magnet which seems to
have cured him. After observing transfers of &DlIlSthesia, induced on
the patient by a bar magnet, .. we placed on his breast," says Dr.
Fontan, "a steel spring, taken from a crinoline, and previously mag-
netised. The little apparatus was completed by a lace which held it on
like a girdle; and the aD&l8thesia was suppressed. A similarspring not
magnetised produced no effect. From the moment that this plan was
tried B. declared himself cured, and became, in fact, impracticable for
any experiment. He was no longer susceptible of hypnotism,
suggestion, &c., and, wishing to repeat some of our experiments, we
were obliged to take his talisman from him by force. Deprived of the
magnet, he became a hypno~c subject again." He had, of course, to
be discharged as cured. "Sombre and taciturn when our experiments
first began, he has become cheerful, noisy, pleased with everything, and
more intelligent than before."
Thus ended a series of observations, in themselves of the highest
interest, and rendered more important still by their connection with a
considerable mass of old experiments in Germany, France, and England,
undertaken for the most part in the first half of this century, during what
may be called the first vogue of mesmerism. These were often recorded
in considerable detail, though rarely or never with a full consciousness
of the sources of possible error,-which, abounding as they do in all
forms of "psychical" investigation, are, perhaps, nowhere more rife than
in cases of alleged clairvoyance. The time may come when it will be
desirable to analyse and compare these somewhat antiquated records;
which, although they can hardly carry much independent weight, may
strongly support by analogy such newer and better observations as
those which have just been described.
F. W. H. M.
,
Digitized by Coogle j
VI.
NOTE RELATING TO SOME OF THE PUBLISHED EXPERI-
MENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
It will be remembered that the earliest experiments in Thought-
transference described in the Society's P~ingB were made with
some sisters of the name of Creery. The important experiments were,
of course, those in which the" agency" was confined to one or more of
the investigating Committee. (See the Table in P~ ofeM Living,
Vol. I., p. 25.) But though stress was never laid on any trials where
a chance of collusion was afforded by one or more of the sisters sharing
in the "agency," nevertheless some results contained under such con-
ditions were included in the records. It is neoeaaary, therefore, to
state that in a series of experiments with carda, recently made at
Cambridge, two of the sisters, acting as "agent" and "percipient,"
were detected in the use of a code of signals; and " third has confessed
to" certain amount of signalling in the earlier series to which reference
has been made.
The code was as follows:-When the two sisters were in sight of
one another, the signals used were a slight upward look for hearts,
downwards for diamonds, to the right for spades, and to the left for
clubs. Further, the right hand put up to the face meant king, the left
hand to the face meant queen, and knave was indicated by crossing the
arms. It is doubtful whether there were any signa for other cards. We
failed to make any out clearly. A table showing the degree of success
in guessing each card suggests that there were signa for 10 and ace,
but that they were either only used occasionally or used with poor
success.
In experiments in which a screen was placed between the two
sisters, so that they could not see each other, auditory signa were used
to indicate suits. A scraping with the feet on the carpet meant
heart&, and sighing, coughing, sneezing or yawning meant diamonds.
If there were signa to distinguish between the black suits they were-
like the signa for 10 and ace in the visual code--sparingly used or often
unsuccessful.
The sisters are naturally very restless, which made the move
ments above described less obvious than they would otherwise have
been. As BOOn as some clue to the code used had been obtained,
Mr. Gilmey and Mrs. Sidgwick, and sometimes Professor Sidgwick, set
Digitized by Coogle
themselves to guess the card (which they took care should be unknown
to them) from the signals, secretly recording their guesses. Their
suoceaa aft'orded a complete proof of the use of the signals.
The use of the visual code was very gratuitous on the part of
the sisters, since it had been explained to them that we did
not attach any scientific value to the experiments in which they
acted as agent and percipient in sight of each other, the poaaibility of
auoceaa under these conditions having been abundantly proved. The
object of our experiments at Cambridge on this occasion was, if possible,
to strengthen the evidence for Thought-transference (1) when no
members of the family were aware of the thing to be guessed, and (2)
when the sister acting as agent was in a different room from the one
acting as percipient. The experiments in which the codes were used
were intended merely as amusement and encouragement with a view to
increase the chance of success in the more di1li.cult ones-which were all
complete failures.
The account which was given as to the earlier experiments, con-
ducted under similar conditions, is that signals were very rarely used ;
and not on specially successful occa.aions, but on occa.aiODB of failure,
when it was feared that visitors would be disappointed. But of course
the recent detection must throw discredit on the results of all previous
trials in which one or more of the sisters shared in the agency. How
far the proved willingness to deceive can be held to affect the experi.
ments on which we relied, where collusion was excluded, must of course
depend on the degree of stringency of the precautions taken against
trickery of other aorta-aa to which every reader will form his own
opinion.
E. G.
Digitized by Coogle
