{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sarah_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Sarah S Possible NDE 6504","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sarah S Possible NDE 6504  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sarah S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3201 Sarah S Possible NDE 6504  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember being surrounded in love, feeling my husband loving me all over. I felt as though I was on another level of love. Then all of a sudden, I saw a big burst of light. The next thing I remember is seeing and hearing my husband say, 'Baby, come back to me!' I could see him but could not hear him. It was as though I was fighting with myself to stay. I kept feeling myself slip away. My husband grabbed me by the face and blew air into my mouth. 

It was like I could see everything, but I could not hear or feel anything. I saw the light bulb by my bed. I grabbed the light bulb saying, 'I see this light, it is supposed to be hot in my hand.' I grabbed the cover on the bed but could not feel it. My husband kept fading in and out, and I kept begging him to help me and not to leave me.

I got hot all over. I remember jumping into my husband arms begging him to hit me harder so I could feel. But I felt nothing it was like everything was slipping away. 

I started praying to God, out loud, begging Him not to take me; that I had to stay, that what I have is real love. I named off my children, my mother, father, husband, grandmother all reasons why I could not die. I remember promising God that I give it all to Him. That I love Him and that He is my Savior but to please give me my life back; and He did. Thank You Father.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11/23/2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      Other: I was enjoying myself happy

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   In my everyday life I take smell, touch, hearing, and love for granted. During that level everything was taken away except love.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would have to say, I was at my highest level, from almost the beginning to the end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I cannot remember time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I try to see everything, but what I did not see was what is right in front of me; love.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could not hear. I could only hear my husband every now and then.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a bright flash of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     This happened before the bright light.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     It is time for me to give my life completely to God.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was feeling my life slip away before my eyes.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The love I have for my family and that I knew I did not want to leave them. My kids are 8. My husband and I have only been together for almost 5 years. We lost both his mother and sister this year and I could not do this to my family.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I love God and Jesus even more.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I have always believed in God nothing has ever changed that

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew love was powerful but I did not know how powerful until then

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     To love my family and God and to not take either for granted.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt love all over.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   God and Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Life is not a given its a gift

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I never felt love on such a high plain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew God was here with me. I knew that only He and Jesus could save me

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   Give it to God.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Love

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     That life after death is beautiful and calm

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Love...Trust God ..... Give it all to Him

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     its is the reason we are here

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I believe in Love and the Love of God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I love my family even more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to explain what it's like to only have love in you.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   All I know is what was happening to me

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     The experience just happened today.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful part was expressing my love for God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    It was just a few minutes and may be something medical or stress related.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just what I have seen on TV.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I realized that it does not take much for life to slip away.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know because I had to pray to God to please let me come back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sarah_s_possible_nde.html