{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1saundra_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Saundra V NDE 2316","mylang":"de"}
          	        Saundra V NDE 2316  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Saundra V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						671  Saundra V NDE  2316  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was no longer in my body, but I initially thought that I was dreaming! I was totally bewildered as to what was happening to me; because I was actually above the earth surrounded by huge clouds moving about me - and I heard the most gloriously beautiful heavenly chorus. I say 'Heavenly', because Nothing I'd ever heard, nor have ever heard since, sounded as wonderful!!!

The voices, which I readily assumed to be angelic, sang tremendously beautiful hymns, which were replete with 'Hallelujahs', and 'Glorias'. I cannot remember any of the other words, but all of a sudden, I found myself singing along with them, as if I'd known these songs and had sung them before!!! I must say that all during this time I could not fathom what was happening to me - until I suddenly realized that I was dead!

Then I became very frightened, I did not want to die! I did not want to leave my babies, nor this life. Despite all the beauty of all I was experiencing I was sorely fearful of death! I cried to God, (I KNEW that he was there), and begged him not to let me die; that I didn't want to leave my children!! (With all this occurring, I strangely did not take much notice that I could breathe again, that ALL my pain was gone, along with that deadly weakness that enveloped me for weeks!)

After my hysterical plea to God - He ANSWERED me! He said (telepathically, for I did not hear Him with my ears): 'Don't be afraid, you will not die, you will live, and you will live to be with your children.' These were His exact words!

Immediately after He uttered those words, I was back in my body, though it felt as if I had awakened from a very deep sleep; and as all those horrible, horrible, symptoms were not with me in the clouds, they were now, no longer with me in my bedroom!!!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer, 1969  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had been hospitalized with a major, debilitating flare-up of Lupus, (SLE), and had been hospitalized for two weeks already. The doctors told me that I would have to stay another three weeks before I could be sent home. I was so very ill and weak, but I couldn't bear not seeing my two toddlers for another day, no less three weeks! The doctors refused to let me go, just for a day, so I begged my husband to take me home. While at home, my conditioned worsened so severely, that the pain in my chest and spine, literally took my breath away. The pain and difficulty breathing intensified so much, that I become increasingly drowsy, and felt extraordinarily sleepy - I Knew that I was losing consciousness and I called to my husband that I was dying and to please call a minister that I had just become acquainted with - then...  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had always been somewhat of an airhead, never really being willing or even capable of dealing forthrightly with life's issues, but believe me, that moment when I realized where I was, and what was happening, could not have been more clear to me!  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When, understanding that I was dead, I cried out to God.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I KNEW that I was in another dimension and I had a perception of timelessness.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The voices seemed to be IN me as well as around me, my hearing was NOT auditory, but certainly and acutely heard.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Only the clouds; Iwas completely surrounded by clouds, and saw nothing else.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, bewilderment, and a profound sense joy (as the angels and I sang together) and then, fear.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voice of God, so profoundly loving, unconditionally so, for I felt guilty about so many things - yet He was so very kind, and spoke so endearingly.  The music, of course, so very, very beautiful, I cannot express how much!  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience on the very day it occurred, with my husband, and my in-laws who came later on in the day, expecting me to be totally debilitated and bedridden.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that the experience was real, though I was still rather sickly, I never had such symptoms again! But for reasons that I cannot yet understand, this experience did not change my life, nor my concept of life for the better. I was, and am religious, and I know that God heals - though I never heard of that kind of healing experience before, nor of an NDE for that matter.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I find myself, in these later years, constantly reliving this event, and each time, finding more beauty and significance in it. As a matter of fact, the NDE seems even more real now!  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It hurts me to no end that this life changing experience, which it was for so many others, did not have that effect on me.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1saundra_v_nde.html