{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 9686 3262 2693","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_16_july_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 July 16 1888","mylang":"de"}
July 16, 1888.] pretri,de""t'8 AdWress.
I.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Jvly 16th, 1888.
271
The twenty-eighth General Meeting of the Society was held at
the Westminster Town Hall, on July 16th, 1888.
THB PaBsIDBNT, PRoJ'BSBOR HUBY SWGWICK, IN THB CRAIR.
The President delivered the following address:-
It had for some time been my intention to take this opportunity-
this being my first formal address to the Society since I became
President a second time-to survey briefly the course that our Sooiety
has travelled since its foundation in 1882; to recall what we proposed
to do and compare it with what we have done j to ask if we have
realised our aims, and so far as we have not realised them, why we h4ve
failed :-&nd then, turning from the past to the future, to consider the
work that DOW lies before us, and our prospects of accomplishing it
latisfactorily. To me it appears that we have reached a crisis in our
history-not perhaps a very critical crisis, rather one likely to be
prolonged and mild-but yet a crisis of which it is important that we
should thoroughly understand the nature, in order that we may guard
against the dangers it involves.
This I had intended, and this I still propose to do, though I find
that the subject is too large to be included within the limits of a single
address; and I shall therefore reserve an important part of what I pro-
posed to say for another occasion. But I little thought when I formed
my plan, that the past I proposed to survey would be divided from the
future by such a chasm as now divides it in the minds of us all-
through the calamity that has deprived us of the colleague and friend
. who had so large a part in shaping the lines of this past. Of the
irreparable nature of this loss it would be impossible for me to say what
I feel, without tending to spread a discouragement which I would
rather wish to overcome-since our cause was never more in need of
hopeful and vigorous exertion. Nor do I propose now to characterise
more particularly Edmund Gurney's share in the work of the last six
years. A careful and full estimate of that will be given in the next
number of our Procaedingl, by the colleague who is of all the best
T
Digitized by Coogle
!72 Twe'nty-eigktk Gtm6'I'al Meeting. [July 16,
qualified to give it. In my survey this evening I shall speak generally
of "our" work; but it will be present throughout to your minds as
to mine how largely this is the work of a vanished hand,-a hand
whose combined vigour and delicacy, and trained skill and indefatigable
industry, we must miss at every tum of the further labour that lies
before us if we are to complete our task.
To pass, then, to my survey.
When we-that is, the group of inquirers to which I belong, for I
do not of course presume to speak in the name of the whole Society-
when we took up seriously the obscure and perplexing investigation
which we call Psychical R6IJ6(J1f'ch, we were mainly moved to do so by the
profound and painful division and conflict, as regards the nature and
destiny of the human soul, which we found in the thought of our age.
On the one hand, under the influence of Christian teaching, still dominant
over the minds of the majority of educated persons, and powerfully
influencing many even of those who have discarded its dogmatic system,
the soul is conceived as independent of the bodily organism and destined
to survive it. On the other hand, the preponderant tendency of modern
physiology has been more and more to exclude this conception, and w
treat the life and processes of any individual mind as inseparably
~onnected with the life and processes of the shortlived body that it here
animates.
I do not, of course, say that all scientific men affirm the non-survival
of the soul: I speak only of general tendencies, and that it is the
general tendency of modem science to exclude the thought of this
survival, I cannot doubt.
Well, the division and conflict thus established between religion and
science has long given serious concem to thoughtful minds; and many
intellectual methods of reconciling the conflict have been tried; butstill,
speaking broadly, it remains, a great and prominent social fact of the
present age.
Now our own position was this. We believed unreservedly in the
methods of modem science, and were prepared to accept submissively
her reasoned conclusions, when sustained by the agreement of experts;
but we were not prepared to bow with equal docility to the mere
prejudices of scientific men. And it appeared to us that there was an
important body of evidence-tending primd. /aci8 to establish the
independence of soul or spirit-which modern science had simply left
on one side with ignorant contempt; and that in so leaving it she bad
been untrue to her professed method, and had arrived prematurely at
her negative conclusions.
Observe that we did not affirm that these negative conclusions
were scientifically erroneous. To have said that would have been tAl
fall into the very error that we were trying to avoid. We only
Digitized by Coogle
1888.] 273
said that they had been arrived at prematurely, without due considera.-
tion of the recorded testimony of many apparently " competent
witnesses, past and present,"-to quote from our original statement of
objects.
This testimony, then, we proposed to examine, to the best of our
ability, according to the rules of scientific method. Here I must pause
to say a word in explanation of the meaning we attached to this term
"scientific," on which some emphasis was certainly laid in our
programme, as it has exposed us to attacks from two opposite
directions. On the one hand we were told somewhat roughly from the
materialistic side that being just like all other fools who collected old
women's stories and solemnly recorded the tricks of impostors, we only
made ourselves more ridiculous by assuming the airs of a scientific
society, and varnishing this wretched nonsense with semi-technical
jargon. On the other hand, Spiritualists have more politely indicated a
certain offence at what has seemed to them a pretension of intellectual
superiority to the many educated persons-some of them of scientific
repute-who had already been convinced by the evidence we were
preparing to examine.
But, in truth, in using such words as "scientific" and "research,"
we had no idea of claiming special qualifications; our only wish was
to characterise precisely the ideal of procedure that we set before us.
Our point was not that we WlWS scientific, but that we meant to be as
scientific as we could. We meant to collect as systematically, carefully,
and completely as possible evidence tending to throw light on the
question of the action of mind either apart from the body or otherwise
than through known bodily organs; we meant to collect and consider
it without prejudice or prepossession, giving the fullest and most
impartial attention to facts that appear to make against the hypothesis
that the evidence at first sight suggested j and in particular we meant
to examine with special care, in each department of the inquiry, the
action of the causes known to science that presented themselves as
possible alternatives to our hypothesis :-since only a rigorous exclusion
of such known causes could justify us in regarding as scientifically
established the novel agency of mind acting or perceiving apart from
the body, or 'otherwise than through the known organs of sense or.
muscular motion. "Science," as an eminent man has said, "is only
organised common-sense" j and it appeared to us that the rules of
procedure that I have described were the obvious dictates of plain
common-sense, assuming our object to be simply that of arriving at the
truth.
This, then, was the general conception of our work. Let us now
consider how far we carried out our ideal, and to what extent
experience led us to modify our original view of the Bubject.
T2
Digitized by Coogle
274 Twenty-eighth General Meeting. [July 16.
First, it will be seen by a reference to our original distribution of
the subjects of inquiry, that the different parts of it, in our first view
of them, grouped themselves in a manner quite different from the
arrangement that further investigation led us to adopt. We bad
already recognised the importance of that "influence which may be
exerted by one mind npon another, apart from any generally recognised
mode of perception," which was afterwards ca.lled "telepathy"; and
we had formed a separate committee to investigate hypnotism. But
we bad not yet recognised in the hypnotic trance a specia1ly important
source of telepathic phenomena-as we afterwards came to regard it ;
and we still kept to the popular view that classifies apparitions at the
moment of death with ordinary ghost stories.
It was only by degrees-chiefly from the accumulating evidence of
similar apparitions occurring in illnesses or other critica.l times of life,
besides the great crisis of death-that we were led to view these death-
wraiths as a special case of telepathic impressions :-and in so doing
we were strongly influenced by the remarkable evidence which we
obtained of such apparitions being produced by design and
experimentally. I cannot but think that the force of this experimental
evidence for telepathic hallucinations-which, though limited in amonnt,
is good in quality-has been overlooked by some of our critics. Thus,
then, was formed that notion of one complex group of telepathic
phenomena which we called Plwntaams of the Living. The advantage
of this grouping was that evidence of various kinds,-partly
experimental, partly spontaneous, partly obtained in a normal state of
consciowiness, and partly in the hypnotic trance-was made to converge
on one general conclusion; the novelty of which, from a scientific
point of view, appeared to be conveniently suggested by the novel
word "telepathy." This conclusion involved the view that death-
wraiths are hallucinations telepathica.lly caused; and on this point we
have been charged with violently forcing the facts collected into the
mould·of a preconceived theory. I venture, however, to think that
this charge is unfounded, and that the amount of theory introdnced by
us is the minimum required to enable the facts which we regard &8
established to be conceived apart from assumptions which we regard as
unwarrantable-at least at this stage of our investigation. We must
regard a death-wraith as a hallucination, so long as we have no reason
for supposing its appearance to be caused by the action on the retina
of some kind of matter filling the space which the apparition seems to
occupy; and this supposition would be clearly extravagant. On the
other hand, if we regard the hallucination as causally connected with
the death, we must attribute it to some occult action of the embodied
mind, until we have obtained adequate evidence that disembodied
minds are possible agents; and we do not yet think that we have
Digitized by Coogle
1888.] President'8 .Address. 275
obtained such evidence. And this and no more is the amount of tlulory
implied in our term telepathy.
The statement of the case for telepathy is, as you know, the chief
positive result of our six years' work, so far as the central problems are
concerned which it was the primary object of the Society to deal with.
And I would now point out that throughout the investigation which
led to this statement it was our endeavour to apply thoroughly our
principle of carefully studying the possible known causes of the pheno-
mena which we were inclined to attribute t.o an unknown cause;
so that we might only accept as evidence experiences in which the
operation of such known causes appeared either impossible or highly
improbable. The application of this principle was, of course, different
in different parts of the evidence. Putting deliberate fraud aside, what
we had to guard against in the experimental thought-transference was
unconscious signalling; and it soon became clear that, where contact
of hands was allowed between percipient and agent, genuine thought-
transference could be simulated to a striking extent by delicate muscu-
lar or tactile sensibility in the percipient, interpreting indications given
unconsciously by the supposed agent. It is to this process that
professional performers, like Mr. Stuart Cumberland, have for their
own purposes given the name of "thought-reading"; and it appears
from a popular novel,of the present season that educated persons still
exist who suppose this muscia-reading to be what we call telepathy:-
whereas the special point of our investigation was the care with which
this unconscious signalling was excluded.
In dealing with the spontaneous cases especially the apparitions of
distant persons corresponding to deaths or other crises-the problem
of exclusion of known causes was fundamentally different. There
could be no question as to whether the correspondence was due to
such causes in any regular way: the only question-assuming the
accuracy of the narratives-was whether it was due to accidental
coincidence. We had, in fact, to deal with a problem in the theory of
probabilities: and to solve this it was necessary to know approximately
the frequency of hallucinations similar to those that are prim4 tacH
telepathic, and not due to recognised disease.
This was a point which the scientific discussion of hallucinations
had hitherto left quite obscure; we had to determine it entirely by our
own statistical investigations, before proceeding to calculate our
chances. Now I understand that to some persons interested in our
general inquiry all this calculation of chances seems pedantic and
superfluous: they think that once it is granted that we have well-
attested first-hand cases in which A sees an apparition of B precisely
when B dies--having never seen any other apparition-no man of
common-sense can doubt that the correspondence cannot be due to
Digitized by Coogle
276 Twenty-eightk General Meeting. [July 16.
mere chance. And if caused hallucinations of sane persons not
apparently ill had been as rare as I, at least, supposed when we began
our investigation, I think this would be true. But, unfortunately for
our argument, statistical inquiry showed them to be comparatively
numerous-probably some thousands occur in England every year-far
more numerous than the hallucinations which there is any ground for
attributing to telepathy. This being 80, it seemed to us that the
question whether the latter could be chance coincidences went beyond
the range of common-sense, and rendered careful calculation necessary
-especially considering the inevitably unscientific character of most of
the observations collected-I mean that they were not made at the
time of the occurrence with careful attention by persons aware of the
fundamental importance of exact and full statements.
And this view was confirmed by the reception of P~ of
ehe Li1Jing. For though we have secured respectful attention to our
case, and I believe persuaded several thoughtful persons to accept
telepathy as a working hypothesis, there are others, who at least desire
to be impartial, who consider that our evidence is inadequate to
sustain the conclusion. I do not myself agree with these critics. I
adhere to the general conclusion of the authors of PIwIn.kunnB .. but I
admit that, in the present state of the evidence, the question is one
that requires a careful estimate of considerations difficult to determine
with any exactness.
And this leads me to what I spoke of at the outset as a crisis in the
history of the Society. I always hoped, as one of the most valuable
results of the pUblication of Phantasms ofell.8 Li1Jing, that-by gaining
for our subject the serious attention of a much larger number of
persons-we might secure that a good proportion of the fresh cases of
spontaneous telepathy would be carefully noted with full detail at the
time, and brought to the notice of our Committee; so that in the course
of a few years more we might get together a body of fresh first-hand
evidence in every way superior in quality to most of what we have yet
published. And I am somewhat disappointed that this expectation has
not yet been realised. I am inclined to think that this may be partly
because our own members, and the friends of our movement, are under
the impression that the business of collection in this department was
considered to be completed when Phantasms of ehs Li1Jing was pub-
lished; and that if the sceptics are still unconvinced after the heap of
cases that we have laid before them, there is no use offering them any
more-for in fact they will simply not look at it. And I should quite
agree with this, so far as evidence of an inferior quality is concerned ;
I think myself that there is little use in adding to our stock of second-
hand or remote cases. But my point is that if our hypothesis is true,
we ought to be able to get evidence first-rate in quality of the telepathic
Digitized by Coogle
1888.] Presidt:nt'8 Addre88. 2'77
cases that are continually occurring; and that if we do not get it, then.
as time goes on, the absence of such evidence will constitute an
argument of continually increasing strength against our conclusions;
it will be said that if the fresh cases had really occurred-as according
to our hypothesis they must be supposed to occur-we should certainly
have been able to ascertain their occurrence. I therefore venture to
urge, with all the emphasis at my command, that a combined effort
should be made by all who are interested in our inquiry to stimulate
the observation and recording of these fresh experiences; I cannot
doubt that they are to be found, and I hope that whenever they are
found they will be sent to me as Editor of the Journal-or to
Mr. Myers or Mr. Podmore as Secretaries of the Literary Committee.
I give again the assurance which we have always given, that, so far
as may be desired by those who communicate with us, the names of
persons and places and any other details that may be wished, will be
kept strictly private.
And I may say that the view I am urging-of the n~ of renewed
and sustained energy in the collection of fresh telepathic cases-was
fully shared by the colleague whom we have lost: to whose rare
intellectual gifts and unflagging zeal the respectful attention that we
have gained for our positive conclusions is, as we all feel, mainly due.
It was Mr. Gurney's intention, in the course of the autumn, to prepare
an abridged popular edition of the argument and evidence set forth in
PAa'1tta8m8 of eke Liw'I1f/, in the hope of thus widening the area of
serious interest in our inquiry, and proportionately increasing our
prospect of obtaining careful records of new experiences. And I hope
that this, as well as other parts of his scheme of future work, will still
be carried out-though they must now be carried out by other hands.
One word in conclusion as to the remainder of my survey which I
am obliged to reserve for a subsequent meeting; I had hoped to say
something of our---especially Mr. Gurneys-researches in the region of
what I may call orthodox hypnotism: I mean such phenomena of the
hypnotic trance as are admitted even by unpsychical physiologists; and
I had designed also to explain and justify our method of dealing with
other departments of our inquiry, in which we have not arrived at a
final conclusion on the main issues, though I venture to think that we
have produced results of real value, and indispensable as a basis for
further investigation. But all this must be for another time. I will
only say now that our interest in these other departments of inquiry
is unabated; and if I have put prominently before you, as a subject for
combined and concentrated effort, the completion of the telepathic
investigation, it is largely because I feel sure that it is in this department,
if any, that we shall first win the acceptance of the scientific world
generally. And I desire to obtain their adhesion, not from any concern
Digitized by Coogle
278 [July 16,
for fame, or because I care for the opinion of men, however eminent,
who have never given serious attention to our subject, but because we
are in pressing need of additional workers possessing scientific ardour
and trained scientific faculty. If we could once get the conclusions
of Plwm.ta.8m8 of tlUJ Living accepted-I do not say universally, but
by the younger and more open~minded part of the scientific world,
we might fairly expect a rush of ardent investigators into the whole
subject which will leave no department unexplored. And, believing
what I do, I cannot see why this should Dot be achieved. It may be
too sanguine to say that it will be achieved; there may be unknOWJl
invincible obstacles; but we may at least hope for this consummation
and work for it.
Digitized by Coogle
