{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sarah_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Sarah P NDE 6885","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sarah P NDE 6885  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sarah P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3445 Sarah P NDE 6885  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was with my female friend who was my age, and we ended up at a reservoir area. I don't remember if we hiked and found this place, or someone gave us a ride and dropped us off. There was a stone-type wall with a light amount of smooth water going over it. To the left of this wall was a smooth body of darkish water (not a pond or lake), and to the right of this wall were the ‘falls.’ The water flowed from the left over the wall and down into the reservoir of water. This reservoir to the right was frothing, angry, churning water. My friend led the way, and it may have been just enough walking space for a single-file jaunt across to where guys were sitting on banks of Earth or whatever. We took a few steps, and my feet slid around and down into the left side of the water and I recall my arms extended across the wall with my fingers holding on to the right edge of the wall. Maybe I was in the left-side dark water up to near my chest. I don't have total recall! In a split second, my friend saw me, and then I said her name as my feet, legs, and upper body swung smoothly and surely counter-clockwise to other side of wall, taking me down into the tumbling, frothy reservoir water!

Now here comes the experience: So I'm down there?!  I still remember clearly, distinctly, that it was like I was looking down on my body lying on bottom of reservoir and the thought I remember and only this thought do I remember, was, ‘I'm dead’. The area I was looking down at my dead body was lit! Like someone left the light on! The emotion I recall that accompanied the ‘seeing’ of my dead body was no alarm, but mere factual acknowledging I was dead. There was no fright. Next thing I know is I had been pulled out by some guy or guys that had been on other side. Now, we didn't talk about the experience, but he or they drove my friend and I back to my sister's house. My sister's house was where my friend and I may had walked from that day. We were visiting and it was far away from my and friend's home. The guy stayed at my sister's and ate food at her dinner table. That's all I recall, except one more thing. If I am correct, I don't think any water came out of my nostrils or mouth, no coughing up disgusting water from reservoir after I was taken from reservoir water to safety. I find that fact strange, but I don't know how long I was in the right side of the water, nor anything.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974 approximately

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Drowning.    Other: I don't have information about my situation as far as brain or heart function. I was rescued by a good Samaritan and have not spoken to him or them, nor did I get to talk with them back then.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  Well, not that I recall, but that doesn't mean that it didn't happen. I don't know the time frame of all that happened to me. Seconds or minutes? So, answering this and the question above it is a little tricky for me. I could answer it with the possibility that it ‘may have happened and I'm not privy to that information.’ I'll answer this question and the one just before it in the context of just and only what my memory lets me know. And the separated from body part of question is no. I'm a little confused about that, because I really don't understand this life in a lot of areas. I am not going to assume I was out of body. I can only relate what my perceptions are to the best of human word usage and memory. My memory is the same as it's always been. It doesn't change with passing time, although maybe more could be remembered with the right person in conversation or through prayer.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Looking down at my body and acknowledging my death, it seems in my recollection that I was very much alert. The unexplainable was happening and was transmitting energy through some source(s) that I don't understand. The whipping of my body into the left side of the water and then the right side of the water happened so quickly that the remembering was definitely ‘me looking down on me!’ As I'm thinking about it now, it was more mature. It was also displaying like leadership quality, the way it was shown to me that there's my body, and I am dead! Like I was being led by an invisible something who had authority and was in-charge. What? To show me I am gone? Just the barest difference of my everyday level of consciousness was expressed. It, the level, was almost lovingly parental, for I didn't die that day.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     While in the lit area being shown my body, or being out of body and observing my dead body, time seemed to have an ethereal presence to it.  It was so clear there visually. Like the water we were in wasn't crushing us with its weight, as water does. A crystalline encasement where the water wasn't felt on my skin, but I could feel it's presence like being in a room and breathing the air in that room. Whoa, where these thoughts are coming from? I don't want to guess, but they are good, thanks to the questionnaire. I haven't thought like this before, and questions bring out memory.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well, the thought or angel or whatever it was that indicated: ‘I am dead,’ maybe was a more mature ‘voice?’ I was fully engaged, aware, and clearly seeing from a distance but above.  It seemed, to be viewing my teenage body. I still have a vague recollection of what I saw. I mean the position of my body, and that it appeared to be at the bottom of water, resting like a heavy weight would. It was not floating through ugly dark foaming waters. Also I felt a bit of empathy for the poor child lying there dead! I didn't ever see the movie ‘the body snatchers,’ but there's something that went on that day.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was a bit spiritually obtuse, to say the least. As a teenager, trouble befell me, but I ended up usually safe.  Now, the question is about what? Ok, while in that lit area of water and looking down at me, or whatever was going on, I definitely ‘heard’ a thought, and it was, ‘I'm dead.’ Or, ‘You are dead’. Like when we have thoughts, and I can hear them, but not like we hear via our ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It seemed lit in the spot where I was looking down on my body. Not brightly light, but pleasantly illuminated. Possibly surrounding the area where I or was looking down from or toward my body from.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Being in a lit up area in an ugly dark watery grave. This in itself may be that realm, or a portal to another realm. So, can I justify picking the second answer? I will have to.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Maybe seriousness that there I was lying dead. Carefree as in my human life. No concern.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I live to hold Father and Mother Gods’ hands. Not as earthly people deem it by hurting others, but in truth to seek love and study and search for anything about God, love, and heaven. I don't buy some dogma delivered by others. I just never want to hurt anyone or anything. But I am always tripping over my own two big feet. I just want to hide under the metaphorical wings of Spirit, for life is too hard on this earth. I long for more.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   I enjoy peace, universal love, and the golden rules. I was baptized in the Holy Ghost around 1985, and accepted God in my 20's.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had not matured in spiritual matters, nor did I access reading materials etc or attend much child church services. So, anything to do with afterlife, angels, spirits, spirituality etc was not in my life consistently.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I'll pick the third choice, only to be able to continue the questionnaire, but I don't usually speak fiction or untruths. Those three answers make one almost have to lie. For none of those answers fits me. Thank you.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Not in my memory in the here and now, but who's to say I didn't? Surely not I.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I have that hope, a spark, because of other things that have happened, that gives me energy to study books on the afterlife. Signs, Messages by Bonnie McEavy about her research of ten years before she wrote her book, talks of things that I wouldn't have believed for a second if I hadn't experienced supernatural moments. Since I did have these in my life, I can feel happy with certain people's books, art, and music. Other people would be scared by them, bored perhaps, disinterested, or even insultingly say they're nuts! But mental issues are different than realities one has to experience to believe them! I just call them blessings. I'm sensitive on jobs with co-workers because of these things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I don't think anyone talked about it much, if at all with me. Maybe my friend and I did, but we were certainly ditzy blonde teens sometimes, and so maybe we never even talked of it. If we did, I have no recall. So, if I had the chance when I was younger to have conversation with interested ones about this back then, maybe it would have been difficult for me to express in words. But maybe it wouldn’t have been.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Seems at the forefront of my memories from that time period. I have very few recollections of alot from that time. I do have some though, but this stands out.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I love angel stories and spirituality.  The fact that maybe I was saved just thrills me like being touched by an angel. In this case, maybe enveloped by angel(s). My hunger continues and I thirst for our Lord.  There's millions of publications to see, read, and study. I am glad to be alive and waiting to see heaven, like many others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Seventeen years or so ago. The college teacher was studying near death experiences as a subject for getting her degree. She appreciated me telling the small class about it. I was the only one who raised their hand when teacher asked if any of us had a near death experience. I can't say if, how, or why others were affected, but I know they showed interest and respectfully listened when I stood in the class to share my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I may have encountered knowledge or impressions from all the TV I watched as a kid, or in school, or wherever. Maybe even people talking in conversation somewhere that I overheard? Who knows?

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't remember. But again, I'll pick an answer to complete this. I don't think anyone would have believed me! And I probably didn't think about it! Wow!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Being that it hasn't changed over thirty plus years, and give all I've learned about spirituality and seen and experienced of spirituality, I believe I experienced something beautiful. A gift perhaps. And the elements of the memory don't change! There is a dark side to life, but there are also miracles, beauty, and breath-taking things all over this Earth. As I learned from a pastor in a sermon, when one plants bulbs in the deep, dark ground, in winter, one waits for months but faithfully out comes the veggies, or the beautiful flowers! Emerged from its dark place, it is just another beautiful gift. I was shown possibly the baby steps of spirituality, so as to have a lifetime of praising my friend Jesus. Until I meet him and his family in time. Maybe of course. Humbly, meekly, and shyly I say this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   While growing up, I had recurring dreams of drowning! I didn't die in the dreams, but they would become amazingly intense in detail while I slept. All of this while I was a little girl! I also recently had a dream that my dog was in a pocket in my shirt, I was crossing a body of dark water, and he disappeared! The dog, that is! He drowned! He's twelve and my buddy boy. This dream freaked me out. In the dream I searched for him in the water, but couldn’t locate him.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sarah_p_nde.html