{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sarah_fde.html","mytitle":"Sarah FDE 6827","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sarah FDE 6827  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sarah FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3404 Sarah FDE 6827  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was late. December 21, 1999 around 11:45pm. I worked late at a department store, for the Christmas rush. Outside it was an ice storm. I was nineteen, seemingly unaware of how dangerous it could be and was ultimately careless, as I was not driving cautiously on the slick roadways. I was four houses down from my house, almost home, when I turned the corner and my car spun out of control. It gained speed and ultimately flung itself over a steep cliff.

I wasn't wearing my seatbelt, and I remember while mid-air, everything slowed down. I felt like I was moving in super slow motion. I could see the trees move past and was able to recognize my state and current position. I didn't feel panicked at all. And inside my head, no word of exaggeration, I heard, ‘Ok, in a second you're going to hit that tree. The air will be knocked out of you. As soon as you hit, it’s important that you breathe right away.’ The back end of my car hit another tree. I was thrown to the back of the car and then bounced from the back as the car slammed into the big pine tree. My head hit the passenger side dash. I remember it being very black, and then I heard ‘breathe and get out.’

I managed to get out of my car that was nose down in the ditch and stumble up the hill. I started screaming for someone to help me. My car was on fire and I was covered in gasoline. Ultimately, nearby people heard me and called 911. I had a severe concussion. I lacerated my liver almost in half, broke a rib and punctured my lung. If I had not taken that deep breathe immediately, I could have passed out, as my head already had trauma and my car would have blown up, as I was all the way down an embankment and no one could see me. Here it's all woods and lots of places where people are scarce. I remember it vividly, the slow motion and the voice that told me to breathe. It was a woman. I'm an atheist, so for me to say anything like this is rare. Perhaps I just hit my head too hard, or perhaps I did indeed get a little help. It wasn't my time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/21/1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   A severe car accident. My car flipped twice. I had no seat belt and my liver was completely severed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It's almost like I could see what was going to happen next. I knew what was going to happen and what I needed to do. I could hear a woman's voice instructing me. It was very strange.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Before I hit the tree.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This accident happened in a matter of seconds, but I felt like I had mentally been given minutes because I was able to figure everything out.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Silent. I couldn't hear anything, except this woman's voice in my head.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was nervous, but amazingly calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I was able to visually construct my escape plan before I hit the tree, while everything moved in slow motion. It was the most amazing experience of my life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I don't believe in anything religious or angels or afterlife etc. I was mind blown.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   A woman's voice instructing me on what was about to happen and what I needed to do to survive.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was being instructed. Doctors said had I not immediately taken that breath I could have died having passed out from lack of oxygen after my head injury. My car was smoking and I was covered in gas.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I have changed from an atheist to someone who is closer to changing. I am able to change my thoughts with new Information.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   When I think back to the accident, that voice and knowledge and slow vision is what I first think of.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voice literally saved my life. Something in my head took over my vision and hearing. All I could see was slowness and a calm woman's voice. I can't explain it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've told two or three people. Most people would think I'm crazy if I said it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sarah_fde.html