{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sarah_m_possible_nde_3374.html","mytitle":"Sarah M Possible NDE. 3374","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sarah M Possible NDE. 3374  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sarah M Possible NDE.  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1320 Sarah M Possible NDE. 3374  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was hemorrhaging blood. (I thought it was ketchup but I knew I couldn't have eaten that much ketchup!) I told my parents and they looked at me with something in their eyes (fear). I ran back to the bathroom and I heard my mother scream in terror and cries and moaning. I was tired and laid down to rest on the floor - my back to the floor and I looked up and saw myself on the ceiling. I wasn't scared at all. I felt someone holding me so tight yet so gently and could feel wind and bright light and words exchanged. I couldn't hear the words but suddenly I felt myself thrust back into my body. I felt then that life is precious and it is much easier to 'die' than to be born. I was told later that I was on 'the critical list for six days'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1962

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Approx. 1 wk. after tonsillectomy/adenoidectomy while recuperating at home my experience began.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was hemorrhaging blood through my nose and mouth. I lost a lot blood I was told.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All of the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Altered space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed brighter.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear background noise but not the voices of the 'angel' holding me and the 'voice' the 'angel' was 'speaking' to.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was brightness all around. I did feel as if I was being rushed through wind.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt like I was being held so tightly yet gently by something bigger than me. I felt the presence of another. I felt myself being thrust down into my body. Death isn't scary. Being born is more difficult than dying.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brightness all around. I could not make out objects, just brightness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt I was being carried upwards, much wind and brightness all around.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unconditional love - a feeling of warmth, compassion, a feeling like I mattered very much. A kind of happiness. No fear, no sadness, no pain, no sorrow.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     This should be a separate question. As it is combined, I cannot answer but my answer is given above.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Not really. I enjoy going to church but I don't go that often. I think the Byzantine Church is better for me than the Roman Catholic.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Leaning toward Byzantine Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Not really. I enjoy going to church but I don't go that often. I think the Byzantine Church is better for me than the Roman Catholic.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I awoke thinking life is precious and it is easier to die than to be born.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Probably. I have few friends but they are very close.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling I felt at the time. Like I was being held so tightly by something so loving as if I was something so precious - it was not a parent, I was alone at the time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes I think I have a keen sense on how people are really feeling - but I find it difficult to confront them - I just may be overly sensitive.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it. I just did in all the above questions.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family members were surprised. They seem to accept it. They let me talk when I felt like it without criticism.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I feel moments of real unconditional love from my dog. Don't laugh! And my husband loves me too.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sarah_m_possible_nde_3374.html