{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sara_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Sara H NDE 3552","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sara H NDE 3552  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sara H NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1589 Sara H NDE 3552  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in and out of the hospital for numerous surgeries between the years of 1999 and 2003. I was going through my third knee replacement at the time; the knee was full of mercer, a staph infection that kept recurring with each replacement. The knee replacement had been removed and because of the infection, I had to be put on a very strong antibiotic that could only be given intravenously. It was vancomycin. I had taken this medicine and had gone through this scenario on two other occasions. I was given a port, central line that would deliver the medicine. X-rays had been taken while this process was being conducted. The central line was in place. But all afternoon and evening I was finding it hard to breathe. I had asked the nurses to phone my doctor, but their answer was that I needed to breathe into the breathing tube so that my lungs would get stronger. I kept finding it harder and harder to breathe. All through the night and up to the next morning, this pressure on my chest and the difficulty breathing did not go away. So x-rays were ordered and upon reading the extras, I was told that my lung was full of fluids; my central line had been dislodged. My doctor came in to tap my lungs and all appeared well. There was another pulmonary doctor on the floor; he wasn't my doctor, but a very religious doctor. He came in to give my doctor a hand with tapping the lung. The fluid was coming out as it was supposed to be, and now they were ready to pull the central line. I only remember looking at my granddaughter at the foot of my bed. I was raising her and her two sisters. 

When Dr. F. pulled the line, blood started spurting out and that is when he called Code Blue. I remember seeing the Light, how warm, and beautiful it was. I wasn't sure if it was coming to me or I was going to it. But the warm wonderful feeling I had, I knew everything was alright. I loved the feeling. When I did come back, this doctor that was not my doctor, was there holding my hand. They were sending me to the intensive care unit. This doctor was sent to be with me. I know that the divine intervention was there. He took my family to the side and told them, that he had seen Jesus at the foot of my bed and Jesus said, 'It is not her time,' that's when your grandmother squeezed my hand. All the nurses in the hospital said how spiritual this guardian angel doctor was and how if anyone saw Jesus it would be him. I know I was going to the other side.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 11, 2001'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'Hemo thorax,  pheumo thorax & plural iffusion'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My lungs had filled with fluids, and then collapsed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure what you mean, but I was alert when I heard the doctors say 'Stay with us Sara, just stay with us.'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was just there, I wasn't human or worldly like, I think it was spirit.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were brighter and the feeling of warmth ran through me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was radiant, it was coming closer and closer. How I was traveling into the light was not important. What was important is how incredibly beautiful it felt.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was so beautiful, just a warm glowing experience, one of tranquility and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe GOD is the LIGHT and the LOVE and I cannot believe that he would ever be a vengeful GOD.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Gnoist Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe GOD is the LIGHT and the LOVE and I cannot believe that he would ever be a vengeful GOD.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was too beautiful to actually put into words. It was beyond speech.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am more intuitive. When I am away from loved ones, there are times that they can sense my presence. It is like I am visiting my family or friends through dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am not afraid to die. I believe that only GOD knows when our days will end. I believe that regardless of an accident, illness, self-termination, the days are pre-set by GOD. I know that the body is only a container for the soul.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was known by family that I had coded. It was the words of the doctor, telling them that I had had an experience that I would be sharing. He explained to them not as a doctor but as a believer.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Not really, but I had always said that if this ever happened to me that I wanted to see my father. He died when I was five years old. I didn't see anyone or faces that I recognized, but did feel a spiritual presence.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't need confirmation by anyone else that this happened to me. I didn't know about this site until I decided to do a paper for school on NDE. I am in awe of some of these experiences are so much in line with mine.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It IS REAL. My soul was at peace. It was the MOST Beautiful experience a person can have. I shared this experience with my mother a year or so before, she left to go to heaven. I told her that it was an experience beyond words. She was ninety-three when she went to meet God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is an experience that now lets me view death and dying as something wonderful. It is just the next step in the process of life. There is no death, but only a change in the containers that hold our soul.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sara_h_nde.html