{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 5841 4780 4031","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_16_november_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 Number 16 November 16 1888","mylang":"de"}
1888.] The Oonnection of HypnotiBm with Spiritual,ism. 279
PROOEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Friday, November 16th, 1888.
The twenty-ninth General Meeting was held at the Westminster
Town Hall, on.November 16th, 1888.
THE PRESIDENT IN' THE CHAIR.
lIr. F. W. H. Myers read a paper contributed by Professor Charles
Richet describing some experiments in lucidity or clairvoyance, which
it is proposed to publish, with an account of further experiments, in a
future number of the Proceeding••
The following paper was then read :-
II.
THE CONNECTION OF HYPNOTISM WITH THE SUB-
JECTIVE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM.
[The following paper is contributed by a medical gentleman, well
known to the Editor, who prefers for the present to remain anony-
mous.]
Of all the phenomena. of Spiritualism, those which lDay be termed
the subjective phenomena are perhaps-regarded as evidence .of the
truth of Spiritualism-the most important. It is upon them that the
Spiritualist in most cases founds his belief. The physical manifesta.-
tions, such as extraordinary appearances, slate-writing, the movements
of inanimate objects, and allied phenomena., are always subject to sus-
picion. But in the subjective phenomena we have a class of manifest&-
tions which, in most cases at any rate, are quite above all suspicion of
intentional fraud. The man who actually sees visions in crystals,
writes automatically, or is perhaps himself a trance or inspirational
medium, naturally feels his doubts as to the reality of Spiritualism
at an end. He believes in it on the strength of manifestations
occurring in himself, aud having once become a believer, he will see
nothing improbable in the more extraordinary phenomena presented
by materialisa.tion and the like.
The idea that the SUbjective phenomena are closely allied, or even
ideutical with, some of the phenomena of hypnotism, is by no means a
new one. It is the purpose of this paper to give a definite shape to
this idea., and to point .out the more obvious connections between the
two seta of phenomena.
Digitized by Coogle
280 Twenty-ninth Generol Meeting. [Nov. 16,
Before considering the subjective phenomena of Spiritualism, it will
be necessary to give a brief account of the particular class of hypnotic
phenomena which bear on them. I refer to the power possessed by
many hypnotic subjects of giving suggestions to themselves, which act
as powerfully, or in many cases more powerfully, than suggestions
given them by the hypnotiser.
The facts of self·suggestion adduced in this paper were not, I would
expressly state, the subject of a series of experiments. The cases
occurred quite unexpectedly during a series of experiments on other
points, but owing to the possible danger of such phenomena if carried
too far, I did not feel justified in attempting to work out the subject.
Hence the chain of experiments is necessarily very incomplete.
The first subject in whom I noticed self.suggestion was E. I
had only hypnotised him once and then failed to send him to sleep. He
was, however, completely amenable to command and suggestions in the
waking state, but no delusions could be produced.
Among other things his hand and arm had been made rigid by
passes. He discovered fot' himself when quite alone that he could
make either ha.nd or arm rigid by stroking it with the other hand.
This is apparently one of the easiest effects to produce by self·
suggestion. Since then many other subjects have proved capable
of self.suggestion.
It must not be supposed, however, that all hypnotic subjects are
susceptible to self-suggestion. The majority are perhaps more or less
susceptible to it. Some certainly are not. Nor must we suppose that
it is only the hypnotic subject who is susceptible to self-suggestion.
In one instance which I met with the subject was susceptible to self·
suggestion, but he had never been hypnotised, and I failed to hypnotise
him when I afterwards tried.
The" experiments adduced were all made on subjects in the waking
state. Muscular rigidity, though the most general form of phenomenon
produced by self-suggestion, was not by any means the only ODe met
with. Inhibition of voluntary movements, local anESthesia, even
delusions were produced by it in some cases. No subject, however, in
whom I could produce delusions was allowed to experiment on himself,
as it was considered unsafe, so that the most interesting field of
experiment in this direction had to be left untouched.
It would be beside the purpose of this paper to give a large number
of experiments: a few merely will be given as samples of the rest.
All the subjects referred to.were men between the ages of 18 and 2.,
and all healthy. In no case, except when specially mentioned, had
the hypnotic sleep ever been induced, but merely waking phenomena,
e.g., susceptibility to inhibitory and imperative suggestions; muscular
rigidity; and, in some cases, local awesthesi&.
Digitized by Coogle
1888.] The Ocmnection of Hypnotism with SpiTit'U(J},ism. 281
We will first take the case of muscular rigidity and anlllBthesia.
N., by means of stroking his arm and looking at it, could render it
rigid. He could not do so, however, if unable to see his arm.
Fi. could make his arm rigid by stroking only: this he could do
whether lie could see his arm or not.
F. could also make his arm rigid by merely looking a.t it.
E. could make his arm rigid by an effort of mind without seeing it
or stroking it.
In all cases they were able at once to remove the rigidity by reverse
strokes. These instances serve to show how the degree in which sul>-
jects possess this power varies.
F. when he rendered his arm rigid also made it aDlIlBthetic: the
allll!sthesia was removed at the same time as the rigidity.
In N. (who had afterwards been sent to sleep), I succeeded
eventually in producing anlllBthesia. He could then do it himself.
The case of E. was very striking: his power of producing muscular
rigidity was astonishing. He was able by an effort of mind to throw
his whole body into a state of cataleptic rigidity, so that he could rE'.st
with his heels on one chair and head on another, and remain supported
in th8t condition. When he made his hand rigid and a.ttempted to
relax it again by an effort of will, he was unable to do so as long as he
attempted to bend his hand. If, however, he did not attempt to bend
.it, he was able gradually to relax the muscles. Those who could
produce rigidity of the arm and who tried to produce rigidity of the
leg were, at any rate in moat instances, successful. Unfortunately, the
notes which were made at the time of the experiments on this point
were mislaid, so I cannot give the percentage of successes.
Other phenomena of the waking state were also produced by self-
suggestion. T. and L. could both close their own eyes so that t~ey were
unable to open them. T. used to shut his eyes and stroke the lids
downwards. He was then unable to open them. Several other subjects
showed the same phenomenon. T. could fix his hand to the table
by a few passes: this also was done by several others.
Other subjects could fix their hands together. The following
experiment was tried: Five subjects were taken, two of whom had
been previously hypnotised j none had been sent to sleep. They were
asked to put their hands together, and imagine that they could not
part them. They closed their eyes, put their hands together, and
tried. One could not part his hands, the others could. They were
then told to shut their eyes and imagine the operator gt¢ng at them,
and saying, "You cannot part your hands." Not one was able to do
so. They were able after this to produce the same phenomena in
themselves, quite apart from the operator, in their own rooms. They
found at first that they were obliged to imagine the operator giving
Digitized by Coogle
282 Twenty-ninth General Meeting. [Nov. 16,
the suggestion, but afterwards were able to do it without imagining
him at all.
T., who was one of the five, presents one interesting feature. He
gave up experimenting with himself very soon after this. I did not see
him again for nearly three months, and then asked him to close his eyes
as he used to. He tried but could not. I then closed his eyes myself
so that he could not open them. He then found that he could close
them himself
The case of G., who could fix his hands together, close his own
eyes, &c., was also interesting as showing that suggestions given to the
subject by himself may act more powerfully than those given him by
the operator. I could only fix his hands together with some difficulty
and then not for long. He could do so himself for a considerable time,
and the muscular power exerted to keep them together, if an attempt
was made by someone else to part them, was far greater if he fixed
them together himself than if I did so for him, and certainly far
greater than he could exert by his own will.
The case of P. will serve to show that it is not only the hypnotic
subject who is susceptible to self-suggestion. P. had never been hypno-
tised, or even tried by anyone. He was able to fix his hand on his knee
by simply stroking it, and it took him about half a minute or so to get
it off again, if he simply tried to do so. If, however, he made upward
strokes he was able at once to remove it. I afterwards tried to hypno-
tise him and failed. Doubtless had I gone on long enough I might
have succeeded, but he was obviously not a good subject.
As regards delusioris I can only give one instance. Doubtless many
subjects could produce them in themselves if they tried, but I have
never allowed them to do so. In the case of C., however, we have
proof that they can be produced by self-suggestion. He could by a
simple effort of mind make himself believe almost any delusion, e.g.,
that he was riding on horseback, that he was a dog, or anything else,
or that he saw snakes, &c. If left to himself the delusion vanished
slowly. Anyone else could remove it at once by a counter-suggestion.
He made these experiments without my consent, as I consider them
unsafe.
It is not the purpose to multiply instances. I wish simply to show
that self-suggestion is a rea.1 psychological factor, and also a very
powerful one. Numbers of instances are recorded in the work of
W. B. Fahnestock, M.D., entitled Statuvolism, and many readers of
these Proceedings have doubtless witnessed similar phenomena. All
my experiments on this point were limited to the phenomena. of the
waking state. So far as I have seen, a self-suggestive subject can do
for himself exactly what I can do with him, i.e., in the waking state.
Almost all the phenomena. of the light state which my self-suggestive
1888.] The Oonnection of Hypnotism with Spiritualism. 283
subjects have tried have been produced by one or another. Some
can suggest to themselves certain things more easily than others, but
apparently all the phenomena can be produced by self-suggestion.
It seems probable that the following holds good. All phenomena
capable of being produced by the suggestion of the hypnotiser can also
be produced by self-suggestion in a self-suggestive subject.
This is probably true of the phenomena of all the states. It is true
that but few experiments have been made in the deeper states, so this
hypothesis must be received with caution until such experiments are
forthcoming.
If we assume the truth of the above hypothesis, the following
proposition is also true. If by suggestion we can produce in a subject
phenomena identical with the subjective phenomena of Spiritualism,
then these phenomena can be produced by self-suggestion.
We will consider, then, how far we are able to produce these
phenomena by suggestion.
First, as to automatic writing. What are its most obvious charac-
teristics t We may, I believe, divide automatic writers into three
main classes, each having different characteristics. . In the first class
we may place those who know what they write. In the second, those
who do not know what they write, but who, if interrupted and com-
pelled to join in conversation while writing, cease to write while they
are speaking. In the third, those who do not know what they write
and who can speak and join in conversation while actually writing.
Our object is to show that these phenomena can be produced by
simple suggestion. The experiment is easily made. The simplest
method is to give the subject pencil and paper, to gaze in his eyes anel
simply to give the suggestion" write."
In all cases where I have tried this experiment I have succeeded.
All but one subject on whom I have tried it have been at one time or
another sent to sleep. The effect was different in different subjects.
Some in fact present the characwristics of class 1, some of class 2, anel
a few those of class 3. A few instances will suffice. I tried
first with L, whom I had never sent to sleep. I simply gazed a couple
of seconds or so at him and said" Write," and then removed my gaze.
He wrote at once, and was unable to stop writing ;-in fact, he covered
two sheets of foolscap with close writing before he was allowed to stop.
He had no notion what he had written about: the writing was in
many languages, with all of which, however, he was acquainted. It
referred mainly to incidents of his life, so he was asked to look it over
before I read it. He did so, and found that some of it referred to
private affairs; so I could not read all of it. The part I read con-
sisted of short sections, complete in themselves, but perfectly discon-
nected from the other, referring to or mentioning different incidents.
Digitized by Coogle
Twenty-ninth General Meeting. [Nov. 16,
Interspersed among these were short quotations from various books
which had no reference to anything else which he had written. If
-compelled to speak, he ceased writing until he had finished speaking.
Hence he beloDgs to class 2. .
A. is also a member of class 2. I told him to write a message from
the spirits, and he instantly wrote down a message respecting a sick
relation in India about whom he had been anxious, saying that
recovery had begun. He did not know what he had written. He
afterwards told me that he had been thinking of his sick cousin, and he
believed that she was getting better as he had had no letter about her.
It so happened that she was recovering. This experiment shows how a
suggestion can influence the kind of matter which a subject writes. Just
before this I had tried the effect of simply saying to him "Write." He
wrote his name and address, and then a few sentences of which I could
make very little. When, however, the idea of a spirit message was
suggested to him, the nature of the writing was moulded accordingly.
He ceased writing if compelled to speak, and is therefore a member of
(llass 2.
J. was the only case I met with which belonged to class 3. Pro-
bably many others if tried would be found to belong to this class, but
I have made the experiment with only a few subjects. J. could write
and talk at the same time. His writing was of a very varied descrip-
tion; sometimes original; sometimes quotations from books which he
had read. For instance, on one occasion he wrote the well-known
nursery rhyme about the little man who had the little gun. Belonging
to class 1 there were various subjects, but it would not be worth while
to give particulars of experiments with this class.
It is noticeable that the suggestion cc write" gives a different result
from the suggestion to write a particular messa.~ in one other way
also. If we suggest simply " write" the subject writes for an indefi-
nite period, and does not stop nntil told to. If we suggest writing
.0. message, he writes the message and then ceases to write of his own
accord.
So far, then, automatic writing can be produced by the suggestion
()f the hypnotiser, and therefore probably can be produced by self-
sUf(gestion.
The next class of phenomena we will take are those of trance-
speaking and inspirational mediumship. In these cases we have
()bviously states very nearly and probably quite identical with the
hypnotic sleep. But the medium goes into trance first, and then speaks
afterwards whilst in the trance. If this be really due to self-sugges-
tion, the suggestion of speaking would probably be made before the
medium is actually in the trance. That is to say, the medium would
suggest to himself that he is going to sleep, and is going to speak
Digitized by Coogle
1888.] The Oonnect,ion of Hypnotism with Spiritualism. 28i
when he is asleep. Hence to produce identical phenomena. by
suggestion, I must suggest to the subject wha.t he is to do when a.sleep
before he is sent to sleep. I tried it a.s follows: I told ?tl. tha.t I
should send him to sleep, a.nd tha.t when he wa.s a.sleep he would get
up and write his name a.nd a.ddress on a. piece of pa.per. I then
sent him to sleep. I ma.y mention tha.t I usua.lly send my subjects
to sleep by a. simple comma.nd to "sleep," and the effect is genera.lly
practically instantaneous. I did nothing else. Twelve or fifteen
seconds after he went to sleep he got up, wrote his na.me and a.ddress
on the pa.per, and then BIIot down again. I repeated this form of
experiment several times, making him perform various actions; for
instance, I have several times ma.de him give me spoken messages from
my spirit.brother.
These messages were very similar to those which I ha.ve heard from
trance mediums. I may mention that I do not possess a spirit-brother.
Hence by suggestions given in the wa.king state a subject may be sent
to sleep and made to speak on a given subject while actually a.sleep.
This, therefore, can probably be done by self·suggestion. There are
also certain other facts which point to self·suggestion as the explana·
tion of trance·speaking mediumship. I have met ma.ny tra.nce-speaking
mediums, only one of them being a professional. The most striking
fact about them was that they seemed to have different ways of going
into a trance. Some seem to go off al",ays with violent convulsions,
others quite quietly. The explanation secms to have been this. Six
who went off in convulsions ha.d, I found, seen others go off in a. similar
way before they becn.me mediums themselves. The others who went
off quietly ha.d seen mediums go off quietly before. I did not see a.11
of these persons in the tra.nce myself; I only BIloW eight of them; a.nd
from the rest I had only wha.t they told me to depend on. Here
self.suggestion seems to have been a powerful factor. In fact, they
imitated the mediums whom they had seen.
One ca.se wa.s a curious one. He was a. lad of a.bout 18; he
could be sent into convulsions or into the quiet state before going into
the speaking state. If he wished to go into the convulsive state he
a.sked some one to hold his ha.nd. In a. few seconds he would be seized
with violent epileptiform convulsions, which gra.dually pa.ssed off, a.nd
then he would speak, and eventua.11y slowly recover himself. If he
wished to go off quietly he simply shut his eyes and BIIot still and
quietly went to sleep; then he would speak a.nd gradually come round
again.
It is instructive to notice how he first went into a. trance. Some
friends of his had seen a medium go off in convulsions a.nd were
telling him about it and describing it, when he was suddenly seized
himself with a. similar attack. He afterwards BIloW a medium who went
igitized by Goog
286 Twenty-ninth General, Meeting. [Nov. 16.
oft'in convulsions when his hands were held by another person, and he
also saw a.nother who sent himself to sleep quietly in the way I have
described. These facts lend additional support to the theory of seH-
suggestion.
Next as regards crystal-gazing. In itself it strongly resembles the
ordinary method of producing hypnotism by means of gazing fixedly at
a point. Almost all public mesmerists use this method on the stage.
It seems probable that what really occu,rs may be this. The gaze is
fixed on the crystal or mirror in the expectation of seeing visions in
it. It is only after gazing until the stage of hypnosis in which
hallucinations can be produced is reached that visions occur. This
explains why subjects have to gaze for such a. long time before the
visions appear.
This phenomenon can easily be produced by suggestion. I told M.
to look at the hack of my watch and asked him what visions he saw.
He saw a lady walking along a road singing. A man came up and
walked past her and was soon joined by another. Here I stopped
him. I ma.de him look again. He then BIloW a man acting on a stage.
If, however, we use this simple method we shall find that the muscular
state is altered, which is not the case with the true crystal-gazer. I
tried the following experiment with M. I told him that when he
looked into a glass of water which I showed him, he would see
visions, but that he could not go to sleep. He looked into the glass
and saw a wedding, which he described minutely. I have repeated. the
experiment successfully about half-a-dozen times. By this method the
subject remained in a perfectly norl,Dal condition, as far as one can see,
the muscular state remaining quite unaltered, nor could any abnor-
mality be detected excepting that when he looked into the glass he saw
visions.
Certain other phenomena not generally regarded as subjective
are apparently often really produced by self-suggestion. I have
seen cases where table-rapping has been produced by unconscious
movement on the part of the medium. In fact, until I drew the
mediums' attention to the movement they were perfectly unaware of it.
It will be seen that in ordinary mediumship self-suggestion takes
the form of expectancy. Probably such a form of self-suggestion can do
more than a.ny suggestion given by the mesmerist, since the mesmerist
is obliged to put his suggestions into words, which is not the case
with this form of self-suggestion. It is impossible in this paper to
enter into the details of the various cases. The readers of these
ProceedingB can doubtless recollect many such cases themselves. To
those who try experiments on self-suggestion it will be well to give one
word of warning. As a general rule the more self-suggestive a subject
becomes the less power can the mesmerist exert over him. In the
Digitized by Coogle
1888.] The Oonnection of Hypnotism with SpiritualiBm. 281
case of E., for instance, we have a subject completely under the
control of the mesmerist. He became afterwards very self-auggeative,
and was completely beyond the control of the operator. These facta
have probably an interesting bearing on many forms of hysteria and
insanity; but this would be beyond the purpoaea of this paper.
If those who have opportunities of observing the various states
produced by the subjective phenomena of Spiritualism could record
their experiences collectively, we should haTe valuable data on which
to base conclusions as to the nature of these states. The Psychical
Society appears to offer the beat possible opportunities for such collec-
tive investigation, which, if carried out, would add very materially to
an accurate knowledge of the subject.
11
Digitized by Coogle
288
III.
ON THE EVIDENCE FOR PREMONITIONS.
By MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK.
INTRODUCTION.
My object in this paper is to give the result of a careful study of
the evidence for premonitions collected by the Society, and to set
before the reader, for his own judgment, what appear to me to be the
strongest C&BeB, and BOme which, though perhaps not evidentially the
strongest, are otherwise interesting.
The word Premonition would perhaps naturally suggest super-
natural communication of knowledge of the future, with a view to
influence action. Few of our cases, however, can be conceived as
having this cha.ra.cter, and we have found it convenient to use the word
in a more extended sense to include all C&BeB of apparent knowledge
of future event&. In many of these C&BeB the event foreknown is so
trivial that it would be ridiculous to apply to it. the idea. of a super-
natural monition or warning. Such trivial instances are, of course,
not less interesting from our point of view, since we are studying them
&B natural phenomena-not supernatural interferences. Only it
requires a perhaps BOmewhat unusual extension of the term to include
them.
By Premonition, then, I mean predictions or foreshadowings or
warnings of coming events which afford, if believed, a knowledge of
the future greater than that which human beings could obtain by exer-
cising their normal faculties on the facts before them. Of course pure
accident will bring about BOme coincidences which would have the
appearance of premonitions. The question we have to consider is
whether the improbability that the C&BeB before us are purely
fortuitous is sufficient to warrant us in &SBuming a supernormal
explanation.
I ought to say at once that the evidence at present collected by the
Society, and of which I am about to give what appears to me to be the
cream, does not seem to me sufficient to warrant a conclusion in favour
of the reality of premonitions. Some of the C&BeB are certainly very
striking, but on the whole, both in quantity and in quality, the evidence
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence /OT Premonitiom. 289
falls far short of that for telepathy.1 There are comparatively few cases
which attain an evidential standard which would have entitled them to
a place in Phantaama of tM .IMnng, and of these cases the larger number
are dreams-a branch of evidence which, in discussing telepathy, was
considered to be in itself inconclusive. And while less evidence
is apparently forthcoming for premonitions than for telepathy,
decidedly more is, I think, required owing to the still greater
remoteness from the analogy of our established sciences which the
intuitive knowledge of detailed future events involves. This will
be seen at once, if we consider that the acceptance of the possibility of
clairvoyance,-i.e., knowledge of present or past facts not obtained
through sense or by inference from other knowledge or transferred
from BOme other mind in relation with the knower's-would carry us
considerably beyond the admiuion of telepathy; while, again, a
clairvoyant knowledge of the future involves all the difficulties
attaching to clairvoyant knowledge of the present and past, together
with new and vast difficulties peculiar to itself.
This leads me to observe that not a few cases which are commonly
spoken of as premonitions or presentiments may be explained without
assuming more than clairvoyance of the present. This is true of more
than a fifth of the cases which have been provisionally cl&BBed as
premonitions and printed or type-written by the Literary Committee.
There can, for instance, be no question of future knowledge in such a
case as that of a lady being saved from stepping into an unseen canal
in the dark by an imaginary hand on her shoulder. In other cases,
though a future element is undoubtedly included, it is such R8 might
naturally be inferred from the present, if known. Thus we have a
not inconsiderable cla.BS-some of them striking-of dreams and
impressions of letters which at the moment of the experience are
actually travelling through the post. A dream of this kind ~ not a
premonition, as I have defined the word, even when it includes the
arrival of the letter in the usual way. But something marked and
unusual-not in the appearance of the letter but in the mode of its
receipt-occurring both in the dream and in reality would give the
dream a premonitory character. Similarly dreams of the whereabouts
of lost articles-however we explain them, and no doubt latent memory
I The following ligures m'ake tbis evident. In PlaGtWaImI 01 eM Livi7l(J, exclu.dinr
the Supplement, tbere are 359 caaes of spontaneous telepathy, of wbicb about 18 per
cent. are drealDB. These 359 _ are all at firat-band, and are selected from a much
larger number as tbe beat of tbeir various cl-. I bave aelected for tbis paper some
38 firat·hand C8IIe8 of premonitions, of whicb 24 are dreams. But 88 I do Dot wisb to
Jay Itreaa OD my own seJection, let 118 take tbe wbole of tbe lint-band _, good,
bad, and indifferent. These amount to some 240, or about two-tbird. only of the
Dumber of Id«ted easel of lpontaneoua telepatby, aDd of tbese 240 about 66 per cent.
an dre&mll.
17 2
Digitized by Coogle
290 On the E'Vidence for Prem.onitions.
often plays a part here~o not exhibit a premonitory knowledge of the
future even if they include the finding of the lost article; for finding it.
is the natural result of knowing where it is. There are of course some
cases in which it is not easy to decide whether the future element is
a natural inference from the present or not, but I think that on
the whole there would be no substantial disagreement as to the
non-premonitory character of the great majority of the cases which I
am leaving out of the discussion on this ground. Some of these seem to
involve clairvoyance of the present, and others may perhaps be
explained as cases of telepathy.
In the remaining cases it is, I think, in the main desirable to
consider only those which are at first-hand, of which we have abont.
240. Of these about two-thirds are dreams, and the remaining third
(omitting two or three miscellaneous cases) may be divided into
(1) visual hallucinations-persons or objects seen when nothing was
really there; (2) auditory hallucinations-voices or other BOunds
heard when, according to the belief of the percipient, there was no
real natural BOund; (3) verbal predictions, as by fortune tellers;
(4) non-externalised impressions of various kinds, namely, ideas of
more or less definiteness, mental visions, mental voices, and motor
impulses-impulses, that is, which at the time seem unaccountable,
to do or abstain from doing certain actions, but which appear to be
explained by subsequent events. I have included with the visual and
auditory hallucinations what are called in PJw.nta.m. oj tk Liftng
" Borderland" cases-cases between dreams and hallucinations-which
occur under circumstances which suggest that they may have been
dreams, but from which the percipient has at any rate no recollection
of waking.
GBNBRAL RBMARKS ON BVIDENCB FOR PRBMONITIONS.
Before discussing any cases in detail, I have a few general remarks
to make on evidence for premonitions. We have here, as in evidence
for spontaneous telepathy, to show reason for believing in &
causal connection between two apparently independent facts; and
one of the most obvious things in the evidence before us is the
general resemblance both between what I may call the /'UJ.urs/actB of
the premonitions and the agents' experiences in spontaneous telepathy,
and also between the percipients' experiences in the two cases. In
consequence of this, a great deal of the general criticism of the evidence
for spontaneous telepathy in Chapter IV. of PhantaBmB of tk Living
applies to the evidence for premonitions, and therefore, though exceed-
ingly important in estimating that evidence, need not be repeated here.
But there are certain dangers and sources of weakness peculiar to
premonitory evidence. One of these lies in the possibility that, in
certain cases, prophecies may bring their own fulfilment. This is
Digitized by Coogle
0"" the Evidence /0'1' PrtmQ1l.uiom. 291
obviously possible when the result m~y be brought about by voluntary
action on the part of 'anyone who knows the prophecy. But I think
it must also be assumed to be possible when the result may follow
from an involuntary action of the nerves; &8, for instance, death
on a date foretold and known to the person who dies. The
following (P. 344)1 is a remarkable case of this kind. The first
account is taken from the Sun, Baltimore, of December 8th, 1883.
Hr. and Mrs. Christopher C. Brooks, of this city,loat their youngest IOn,
Christopher C. Brooks, aged 17 years and five montha, by death from
paralysis of the heart, in Brooklyn, N.Y., on Wednesday afternoon, under
peculiar circumatancee.
The following account W88 obtained from the parenta of the deceaaed :
Mrs. Brooks W88 travelling in Europe and had written her IOn, who was
employed in New York and lived in Brooklyn, to join her. He responded,
naming the time of hiB atarting. In the interim he W88 taken ill, and on the
day Mrs. Brooks received biB letter, abe received a cablegram aummoning her
home on account of biB mcknea&. On her arrival ahe found him able to go
about, and biB phJsician had no fears 88 to hiB perfect recovery. The youth
lltated, however, that a former teacher and friend of hiB, a Mr. Hall, who
died about five montha ago, bad appeared to him in a vision and told him he
would die of heart trouble on Wednesday, December 5th, at 3 o'clock p.m.
Young Brooks bad never bad any trouble with biB heart, and biB friends to
whom he made the atatement were in no way concerned about it. Dr. Mann,
his physician, laughed at it, and said he was certain, on the contrary, he
would get well. The young man waa, however, thoroughly impreued with
the belief that he would die at the time indicated. A few daya before that
time he sent flowers to BOme friends, with a note 8&ying: "I aball never
again be able to expreaa my appreciation of your kindneaa." He accompanied
a lady friend to an-entertainment the afternoon of December 4th, spent the
evening in her company, and received a promise that if he wrote for her the
next aftemoon ahe would come to 8&y good-bye. HiB physician told the
brother and mother of the youth that he would divert biB mind from the
8ubject by physical meana, and on Tuesday night put a fly bliater on biB
neck.
Wedneeday moming young Brooka rose 88 uaual, ate an unusually hearty
breakf88t, and to all appearancee W88 good for a long life. The physician
left him without a trace of uneaaineaa 88 to biB condition. The young man
insisted that biB mother abould not atay with him, telling her •• It would kill
you to see me die." That he might not take the matter too much to heart
abe did not oppose him, but conaented to leave him, intending to return to
him in the latter part of the afternoon.
While taking lunch with the family 88 uaual at two o'clock he complained
of feeling faint, and 88ked to be aaaiated to hi8 room. After resting in the
bed a few momenta he wrote to the young lady, and in about 20 minutes abe
arrived. He died in the presence of the fanrlly at 3.10 o'clock. HiB
1 The Dumbera given in bracketll are sh.- attached to tbe _ by the Liklrary
Committee for identification, P. etanding for premonitioD. They are given bere for
CODvenience of reference.
Digitized by Coogle
292 On the Evidtmce for Premonitions.
physician and his mother arrived but two or three moments later, and were
shocked to find his'prediction fulfilled. His father bad retumed to Baltimore
from visiting him BOrne weeks ago. On Wednesday, at breakfast, his father
remarked it was the day which his BOn bad appointed to die. but with no
thought that the prophecy would be fulfilled, and was astounded when
intelligence of the death arrived. He was a young man of strong character.
exceptionally good mind, and splendid physique.
Mr. Gumey wrote to Professor Brooks, and received the following
reply:-
Baltimore Female College, Baltimore.
April 5th, 1884.
The article from the Baltimore Sun gives a quite correct account of the
aft"air.
To give him (i.e., young Christopher) the best possible treatment, his
mother prevailed on Dr. Mann to take him into his family as a boarder. Dr.
Marian Simms, the eminent gynrecologist, had recommended Dr. Mann to
her. He said to his mother, on placing him with the doctor, "I will aid the
doctor all I can, and take all he gives me, should it be God's will that I shall
recover; but I feel sure that I will die on December 5th." When she told
him that she had paid the doctor for a month in advance, he told her that she
would lOBe her money, for he would die on December 5th. This was 80
firmly impreBBed on his mind that neither reasoning nor ridicule could remove
the impression. As the time approached he asked for BOrne money that he
might make BOme parting gifts to friends. His mother gave him lOdol., and
afterwards, at his request for more, Mol. additional. He expended in
dowers and little presents to friends all with the exception of 50 cents.
His father, in coming to Baltimore a few days before Christopher'S death.
first called on Dr. Mann to leam the exact condition of his BOn's health. when
the doctor used the following strong language of a88urance, •• I will pledge
my diploma that at the end of a few weeks he will be perfectly well." He
had been at Dr. Mann's about two weeks when he died.
Christopher Covington Brooks, who was thus early called away, and in 80
peculiar a way, was a youth of eamest piety, knew nothing of. Spiritualiun,
and neither desired nor feared death, but with Christian philosophy sub-
mitted everything to the will of God.
N. C. BROOKS,
" Even accidents may be brought about by nervousness-a person is
more likely, for instance, to lose his footing in a dangerous place if he
thinks he is going to do so-; and practically moat cases of death, or
of accidents in causing which the sufferer's own state of mind may
have been an important factor, occurring within a predicted time
to a person aware of the prophecy, must, I think, be excluded from
the evidence in favour of premonitions. In many of these casea
we have also to consider the strong probability that similar presenti-
ments very frequently occur without being fulfilled. Of course, again,
prophecies of calamity may bring their own fulfilment through the
action-or inaction-of persons other than the sufferer. We have
Digitized by Coogle
On the E'Vidence for P1'M1I.O'nitiom. 293
one very pathetic case (P. 915) in which this explanation is
suggested, where a father's dream is interpreted to mean that
a favourite child would die. The gentleman who sent us the
case says of the father ;-" The tears always stand in his eyes when
he speaks of it. He has always, since the death of his little boy, felt
that his dream made his wife and him more anxious and fturried than
they: should have been, and in consequence unfitted them for properly
attending him during his illness. He thinks the mere idea that death
WaB inevitable prevented them from doing all they might have done."
In this case, however, I hardly think the parents would have felt the
self-reproach had they deserved it, and aca.rlet fever in the family so
easily accounts for both dream and death that we need not go further
for an explanation.
There is another weakneu in premonitory evidence as compared
with telepathic, which is of a more general kind. A tele~thic phan-
tasm carries with it implicitly the date of fulfilment-because if this
does not coincide with that of the phantasm there is no telepathy. A
premonitory phantasm, on the other hand, does not necessarily imply
any date, and it must, therefore, be more complex than a telepathic
one in order to have the same cogency. For example, a premonitory
apparition of A. accompanied by a statement of a future date which
afterwards proved to be the date of A.'s death, will only be evidentially
equiValent to a simple telepathic apparition of A. at the time of A.'s
death. One consequence of this need for greater complexity is that the
evidence generally depends more on accurate recollection of the details
of the dream or hallucination than telepathic evidence does ;-and
abundant evidence exists to s~ow how little the memory can be trusted
aB regards details. It is, therefore, even more important here than in
the telepathic evidence that the experience should be fully described and,
if possible, written down before the fultilment; and among the cases
before us where the correspondence between the phantasm and the
event is sufficiently marked to be regarded in my view as evidential,
there is only one in which any record written before the event seems to
have been preserved.
Turning now from general conmderations to particular cases, I will
give those which appear to me to tell moat strongly in favour of the
reality of premonitions, with some criticisms on them.
RECOGNISBD APPARITIONS.
I will begin with recognised apparitions, and give first a case such
all I have just described, where a date is named. (P. 392.) It is from
Mrs. Alger, who at the time she wrote, in January, 1883, lived at
Hedsor Lodge, Belmont, Twickenham, S.W. She writes ;-
Some years ago in March, my husband, who is an army tutor, uked
Digitized by Coogle
294 On tM E1Jiiknce for Premonitions.
me to call at the Civil Service offices for lOme papers. I bad come from
Victoria Station, walking towards the Abbey, when, just before croeaing over
to Canon Row, I felt lOme one touch me on the shoulder. I turned round
and saw my husband's mother, looking very death-like. I said, "Oh,
mother, what a start you gave me !" but she bad gone. A feeling of great
depression came over me, and I was quite unable to go on my husband'.
errand, but went home. All the way home I thought of what bad happened,
and as I got indoors I made up my mind to tell my husband and then at
once go to Brixton, where his mother lived. However, I fainted before I
saw Mr. Alger, and after recovering, I felt UDwell,1O that I had to go to bed.
After thinking the matter over I said nothing of what I had seen, but early
in the evening, when my husband came into my room, I asked him to go and
see his mother. We were talking it over as to whether it would be right to
leave the boys by themselves, when I heard a voice say, "Come both of you
on the 22nd" (the 22nd of March is my birthday). I at once told my
husband my day's experience, and added, "My birthday will be your
mother's death-dsy." Mr. Alger went at once to Brixton, and on his return
told me his mother had a cold, but was, on the whole, as well as ever; but
on the 22nd of March, that is, four days after, we stood at her death bed.
I have no doubt my husband will remember the above and confirm what
I have written, any time you wish him to do 10.
L. ALGBB..
Mr. Alger corroborated as follows:-
Hedaor Lodge, Belmont, Twickenham, S.W.
JQ,WIUI.ry 18th, 1883.
DEAR Sm,-I have seen your letter of yesterday's date, written to my
wife, and with regard to the subject of the correspondence, I remember very
well her telling me of what she supposed she had seen, and also her urging
me to go and see my mother, who, as far as I knew at the time, was in very
good health. I also remember that very soon following upon this, my poor
mother was taken ill, and that the day of her death was not long after the
circumstances alluded to, and took place on the birthday of my wife, the
22nd March. It is that coincidence which bas stamped the facts indelibly on
my memory.-I am, dear sir, yours very truly,-T. L." ALGER.
It seems from the general form of this corroboration that
Mr. Alger has no independent recollection of the most important
point in the narrative, namely, that his wife foretold the day of his
mother's death, but I think that even without this it will be admitted
that the case is a remarkable one.
It is worth noting, apropos to this case and others, that marked
dates like birthdays, Christmas Day, &c., have, if they occur in dreams
or waking" phantasms, the advantage of being easily remembered,
but they have a compensating disadvantage in being more likely to
occur spontaneously to the mind and thus making it more probable
that the coincidence is due to accident.
We have only one other apparition with date, if we exclude one
(P. 326), as I think we must, where the percipient was a child of
Digitized by Coogle
295
eight and can produce no corroboration. It is from Mrs. Barclay
O'Gorman, who, when she wrote in October, 1885, resided at
39, Wilbury-road, Brighton (P. ') :-
On the night of Tuesday, October 24th, 1882, a few moments before the
stroke of midnight, I laW my uncle Carleton Crawfonl standing by my bedside.
He looked as unaI, and said to me, "Margaret, I am come to bid you good-
bye, for I shall die this day week." I then heard the clock of the Town
Hall strike 12, and first reaIiaed the strangeness of what had taken place. I
WIllI awake at the time of seeing my uncle, though his appearing 10 suddenly,
and in 10 unusual a manner,seemed at thp time to me to be quite natural. The
next morning I told my husband and my sister (Mrs. E. Raymond Barker)
of this apparition, and then forgot all about it. On the Satuntay following, I
heard accidentally that my uncle had been taken suddenly very ill, and was
become almost unconscious. (He was 80 years of age.) He remained in
a state of unconsciousness until the afternoon of Tuesday, October 31st, when
he expired. This is the only time in my life that anything of the kind
happened to me, being awake.
MABGABBT E. BABCUY O'GolUUN.
Mr. O'Gorman's confirmation cannot be obtained to this account, as
he has a dislike to the subject, and Mrs. E. Raymond Barker has
recently been applied to for hers, but no reply has been received from
her.
This case is less striking than the former one-not only because no
corroboration is obtainable, but because whether it was a walring
experience as Mrs. O'Gorman believes, or only a dream, it at any
rate does not seem to have made the strong impression on the mind
which so rare an experience as a waking hallucination usually does.
She tells us that, after telling her husband and sister of her experience,
II she forgot all about it," and we must allow for the possibility that
when her" uncle's death recalled it to her mind, the exact date may
have been read back into it in the way that details certainly do some-
times get read back into dreams. It must also be admitted that the
advanced age of Mr. Crawford somewhat diminishes the force of the
coincidence by making his speedy death more Hkely.
In the next case-a borderland one (P. 379)-the phantasm,
though giving no date, is nevertheless something more than a mere
apparition, because, as will be seen, the upward motion of the figure as
in the conventional idea of a departing spirit distinctly conveyed
the idea of death. The narrator is Mr. W. T. Catleugh, who wrote
from 15, Lincoln-street, Che1sea., S.W. :-
Duembtr 19th, 1883.
Sm,-Having seen your letter in the Standard, it brings to my memory
an event that took place six weeks before my elder daughter died (five years
ago come next March). The child had never been strong, and to make sure
Digitized by Coogle
296 On the Emdence for Premonitions.
she was well looked after when she went to reat, she used to sleep in a little
bed by my side 10 that I could attend to her easily if she wanted looking to.
My wife at that time, being an invalid, kept a lamp constantly alight. I
was sleeping with my back to the child when I was suddenly roused by a
touch on the shoulder. I turned at once, thinking that the child required
IOmething, when I distinctly laW the spirit-form of the child with her banda
clasped and in a kneeling attitude rise from the bed. This made me feel that
the child was dead, and I at once put my hand on her forehead, but
found it waml and her breathing regular. I also noticed that her arms were
not outside the counterpane, but that the child was well covered up.
These, sir, are stubborn facta: I made a memo. in my pocket-book the
following moming of being touched in this mysterious manner, and seeing
the apparition of the child. It was to me a warning of the approaching
departure of my little one, although, as far as we could see, nothing ailed the
child for five following weeks, yet on the sixth week my little darling died of
meningitis tuberculosis.-I am, sir, yours faithfully,
W. T. CATLBUGH.
Mr. Oatleugh subsequently wrote :-
December 26th, 1883.
DEAR Sm,-In reply to yours of yesterday.
Neither before nor since the time that I laW my little girl's spirit-form
have I seen any apparition, or been unaccountably touched.
I have a alight correction to make with regard to the time that intervened
between the incident that I wrote to you about and the child's death.
I looked in my pocket-book for 1879, and laW under date 1st Feb1'lW'1
that it was just 1.30 in the moming when this unaccountable touching and
vision occurred. This would lDIke six weeks before the child took to her
bed instead of five.
Had this incident been a dream I should not have troubled you with the
narration of it. But I emphatically declare that I was roused from sleep by
a mysterious touch ; that the room was light from the lamp, and that when I
turned round I laW the spirit-form of the child rise from the bed and dia-
appear out of sight as distinctly as if it had been the child herself.-I am,
dear sir, yours faithfully,
W. T. CATLBUOH.
P.S.-At that tinle I had no anxiety preying on my mind with regard to
the child's health. She had always been nervous and delicate, but had never
had a serious illness, or any of the ailments common to children, and she
seemed as well in health as she had ever been.
Mrs. Catleugh writes :-
Deumber 28th, 1883.
Sm,-My husband has just shown me your letter. I well recollect the
night, or rather early morning, when my husband woke me by starting up in
bed. He was greatly disturbed in manner, but would not tell me what he
had seen until three days had passed, as I was at that twe an invalid, and he
was afraid of alarming me ; but he told my cousin, Mias Archer, the next
moming, and it has been a subject of conversation whenever she aftenrardJ
came from the country on a visit to us. She would, I know, willingly have
Digitized by Coogle
011. the E'IJidence JOT Premonitions. 297
veJiieel my huaband's statement had she been alive, but I grieve to lay she
died of rapid consumption early this year.-Yours truly,
. HBmmrrrA A. CAt'Ll!lUGB.
The known delicacy of the child, although not enough to cause
painful anxiety, and the length of time-over six weeks-allowed for
fulfilment, have to be noted, in considering the evidential force of the
coincidence in this case; but the experience is certainly an impressive
one.
It is sometimes thought that the mere apparition of a living person
is a warning of his death. I mean, it is thought not only that there is
a considerable probability of the appearance coinciding with the death,
but that if it does not do this it is an omen or warning showing that
his death is likely to follow shortly. But so far as I know, facts do
not support this idea. I have abstracts, mostly furnished to me by
Mr. Gurney, of 92 recognised hallucinations of living persons not
apparently coinciding with any marked crisis in their lives, or with any
known attempt to communicate with the percipient (I do not include
in the 92 those just quoted, as they contain what may be called a
prophetic element apart from the apparition itself). Among these 92
only 14 are stated to have been followed by the death-the interva.l
varying from a few hours to a year; and such a proportion seems to
me quite insufficient to form a basis for any conclusions favourable to
the premonitory character of apparitions. But further, two of these 14
cases must be excluded because the percipient was in grave anxiety about
the person whose apparition was seen-in one case, moreover, suffering
from loss of sleep owing to the anxiety, and in the other case fatigued
with nursing. And in another of the 14 cases the percipient was expect-
ing to see her husband in the direction in which she saw the apparition
of him. There is a further argument against there being any premoni-
tory significance in the apparition of living persons. Among the 14
which are stated to have preceded death 10 represented people living
in the same house as the percipient, and an 11th represented
a person in the place and attitude he had been seen in a few hours
before. Now there seems to be no reason why a genuine premonitory
hallucination-if there be such-should specially occur as regards
persons living in the same house as the percipient; while there is reason
to think that when a casual hallucination takes the form of a recog-
nised person at all, it has a tendency to take that of a person under the
aame roof and, therefore presumably, frequently and recently seen.
For among the 92 cases, this is true of 48 at least, or over half, and in
two others, at least, the original of the apparition had been seen during
the day; while in three more cases the apparition was of the percipient's
self.
One more case of a visual hallucination representing a man who
Digitized by Coogle
298 On the Evidence /0'1' Premonitions.
died soon after must be mentioned. He appeared as dead, .so that the
idea of death was distinctly conveyed; but the hallucination waa of I
different kind from those hitherto discuaaed. It was a vision in I
crystal. Gazing into a glaaa or crystal ball, or a mirror, or a few drops
of ink in the palm of the hand, is a method of seeking for oceult
information which has been practised for many ages, &I1d it
undoubtedly is, with some people, a way of producing hallucinations
more or less at will. These visions-like other hallucinations and like
automatic writing-doubtless reproduce only what is already in the
.percipient's mind, and probably in most cases only what has come
into his mind in a perfectly normal way, though the idea or
memory may be latent. But it is quite poaaible that sometimea-as
appears to be the case in automatic writing1-these voluntarily sought
hallucinations may be a mode in which supernormally acquired ideas
rise into consciousness. The following case is from Mrs. Bickford·
Smith (P. 396):-
My visit to the woman who owned a crystal is nearly 18 years ago, and
I have almost forgotten it.
A relative of mine, rather a believer in witchcraft, had been to see I
woman who professed to tell fortunes by cards, and after one visit, told me
that the woman had come into poaaeaaion of a strange crystal, in which 101M
people could see things that would happen to them or to others with whom
they were connected, and asked me to go and lee it.
The "crystal" was about the size of a billiard ball, and looked like I
ball of well-used glass, not cut or very brilliant. After looking into it for I
few minutes it seemed to expand, and I saw the interior of a churoh I knew
well. A coffin stood in the aisle, having no lid on it. I distinctly saw the
face of the corpse. It was that of an old friend of my father's, who was then
in good health. As the church faded from my view, I leemed to see many
things passing by, but cannot recall them distinctly, for I felt rather glad to
get rid of the crystal. In a few days I stood by the death-bed of the gentle-
man, Mrs. J. and I being the only two people in the room when he died.
His death was the cause of a great change in our lives.
Alum: W. BICKFORD·SIOTH.
P.S.-Perhaps a better description of the appearance of the crystal would
be "glass that had been bresthed on."
. The amount of weight as evidence for premonition to be attached
to'the coincidence in this case, would depend on the number and
accur~i .Q~ the other and now forgotten images which presented
themselves ;" but still more on whether it was known at the time of
the vision that the gentleman's death. whenever it occurred, would
be the cause of a great change in the percipient's life; because if so,
an attempt to"l~k into the future might Daturally carry with it
1 Compare, e.g., Mr. Ne\\'Dham'. experiments recorded in Phafltaml 0/ 1M IA",,,,,
Vol. I., pp. 63-70, and a _ (81), VoL I., p. 293.
Digitized by Coogle
1
299
an idea of his death, and start this particular hallucination.
Mrs. Bickford·Smith does not remember that she had means of
knowing that the death of the gentleman would affect her affairs, but
she cannot at this distance of time feel certain on this point.
In the recognised apparitions I have 80 far spoken of, the future
information, such as it is, has been in the form of an idea. But it
is possible also to have a pictorial representation of the future,-to
see a phantom person or group of persons in the attitudes or dress, &c.,
in which they afterwards are really seen. But for such a vision to
have any value as evidence for premonition the attitude, or whatever
it may be that is foreseen, must of course be unusual and unlikely,
and it seems at least doubtful whether this is the case in the one or
two narratives of the kind sent to us.
We may even have action added to the picture. I will give as an
illnstration the only case of the 80rt which we have (P. 10), but it
happened 40 years ago, and admits, I think, of a plausible explanation.
We received it from the percipient, Mrs. Stone, of Bridport, in 1884.
In January, 1842, I was living in Dorchester, Doraet, and I was at that
time anxious about a dear little boy (the IOn of my brother-in-law, the Rev.
George Stone, Vicar of Long Burton), who was lying dangerously ill in
fever.
Long Burton is about 16 miles from Dorchester, but I heard from his
father almost every day how the child was. The 3lat of January I had a
much better account; the child had rallied, the medical man hoped the crisis
bid puaed and he would recover. I went to bed quite relieved and hopeful ;
but in the early morning of February 1st I seemed to be awakened by loud
knocking and ringing at the street door. I heard the servant open it, run
quickly up the stairs, knock at the bedroom door, and then saw her open it
U1d place a letter on the counterpane, saying "I fear, ma'am, this is bad
newa... On the fold of the letter I seemed to see that the child was dead. I
immediately sat up in the bed, and put out my hand for the letter, could find
none, and saw no maid standing by the bedside. I was much startled, but
bid hardly time to think it over when the vision was realised to the moat
minute particulars, the ringing, knocking, running upstairs, the worda the
eervant used, and those which I read on the fold of the letter.
In conversation with Mr. Sidgwick, in 1884, Mrs. Stone stated
tbat:-
The premonition was not in sleep, 10 far as she knew; she had no
COIlICiousnesa of waking after it.
But though no doubt we are usually conscious of waking from
dreams, I think that in this particular case the sudden sitting up,
begun in sleep, may have obscured the transition; and I am the more
inclined to suspect that the experience was a dream, since I cannot
recall any other instance of so complicated a hallucination. It is not
Digitized by Coogle
~oo On the Emdence for Premonition8.
unlikely that the messenger knocked twice before he was attended tAl,
and his first knock may have started what under the circumstances
would be a very natural dream.
UNRECOGNISED APPARITIONS.
There are a few cases where a distinct, but u'lrecognised apparition
is seen, and subsequently identified with some person seen for the first
time. A resemblance of this kind such as would lead to a real recogni.
tion would perhaps be as extraordinary a coincidence as we could
possibly have, owing to the amount of detail involved. But I doubt
whether we ought ever to feel complete confidence in such recognitions.
I have made some remarks on recognitions in former papers, but I feel
bound to say that my estimate of their evidential value has even
diminished since I wrote my paper on Phantasms of the Dead. What I
think isliable to happen in such cases is a sudden memory-illusion, alter-
ing or giving fallacious definiteness to the recollection of an apparition.!
This hypothesis is, I think, supported by the two following cases,
in each of which there is a semi-identification of the phantasm
before its counterpart is finally fixed upon, which would hardly
have been the case, I think, had the resemblance ultimately dis-
covered been real and complete. (P. ~.) A gentleman tells as
that he woke suddenly in the middle of the night "and saw the form
of a man, apparently dressed in a black frock coat of clerical cut,
tightly buttoned up, standing motionless and silent at the foot of the
bed, when after a short pause he moved slowly and silently towards the
door and disappeared. Could not next day remember who the figure
was like but have thought since that it was more like that of Mr. Holt,
(sometime curate of the parish) than of anyone else." After this was
written, on a second visit some two months after, he tells us, "As I was
strolling in the garden I met and instantly recognised as an old
acquaintance my spiritual visitor at Easter. I shook hands with him
and was on the point of saying, 'When did we meet last l' but checked
myself in time, as it instantly flashed across my mind that it was my
spiritual visitor at Easter who now stood before me in the flesh.
In course of conversation I soon ascertained that he was coming to
dine at the Reetory, and from my sister I learnt his name and the
position he held with reference to my father, viz., his being at present
I The case is of COU1'8e evidentially entirely different if an apparition, at tJu time it iI
~een, prodUceB the impression of being that of a definite person uDknown by Bight. I
know at first hand of an iDBtance .f this,where the apparition coincided with the death
of the person lOOn, and was connected with that person by the percipient before
hearing of the death. She had doubtless Been her, as they had attended the saBle
church, hut she did not know her. Subsequently she picked out her photograph
among a numberof other unknown ones, thus confirming the recognition. I am DOt
allowed to give this case in more detail.
On the E'I1idence for P'I'e'I1Wnitiom. 301
bis curate, but with the right of presentation to the Rectory on the
next vacancy. I never saw him before or since."l
My second case (P. ~) was regarded by the percipient as a
premonition. It perhaps supports my bypothesis more strongly than
the last because the unrecognised phantasm was ultimately identified
&8 an acquaintance, and might, therefore, have been recognised from
the beginning.
A lady writes :-
One evening, about 10 yean ago, I lay on the IOfa dozing. My husband,
and a friend who was staying with us, were sitting in two armchairs, on
either side of the fire. Suddenly I wakened and opened my eyes, BBW
opposite me, behind my friend's chair, the figure of a dead man, the eyes
closed, head drooping, grey hair straight down the forehead, nose prominent,
mouth fallen in, face drawn. The figure is plainly before my eyes even now.
I stared at it mute and motionleaa, for fnlIy a moment or more. I faintly
remember thinking it was an optical delusion. I was perfectly composed, I
withdrew my eyes, and when I looked back the figure had gone. I told my
friend in a day or two about what I had Been, and mentioned a perlOn whom
I fancied the face resembled, but I vainly tried to make sure of any real
likeneaa. About five weeks afterwards, my husband was one evening .called
orit of the room, when he returned he told us Mr. De Gemon had never
returned home since he had dined with a friend, after the day's hunt, two
days previously. That week, his body was found in the river; he had been
drowned croaaing a swollen ford.
I then recognised the face and figure I had Been, it was a perfect portrait
of De Gemon, fixed, and drawn in death.
I must admit that it requires some straining of this hypothesis-
that the recollection of unrecognised apparitions is not a very definite
on&-to extend it to the rare cases where the a.pparition is gazed at
fer minutes instead of seconds, and it is therefore with some hesitation
that I a.pply it to a curious case, (P. ~,) where a lady sits opposite to
& phantom gentleman, for--as she believes-several minutes, in a
Metropolitan Railway carriage, and that evening identifies him
at the theatre as one of the actors. But the case is so isolated that,
provisioually at any rate, we are, I think, justified in viewing the
TeCOgnition with some scepticism. In any case this experience hardly
.comes under the head of premonitions as I have defined them.
It may be worth remarking that a description written beforehand
.of an unrecognised phantasm can hardly ever prove the reality of a
-subsequent recognition; for it is practically impo88ible to describe any
one so that they should be unmistakably recognised, unle88 they have-
;some peculiar deformity or scar. The best po88ible description of a
1 It is interesting, tbough not belonging to the subject of the present paper, to note
-tbat this apparition occurred in a room which, unknown to tbe percipient, bad the
reputation of being haunted, but it did not resemble the traditioD&l ghoat of tbe room.
Digitized by Coogle
302 On the Evidence for Premonitions.
person must be equally like many others, whereas that person's appear-
ance in reality is probably unique.
SYMBOLIC VISUAL HALLUCINATIONS.
We have next to consider a class of symbolic hallucinations. The
following case, which is the best visual case of the kind we have, will
explain what I mean. It is from Mrs. Weiman, now dead, and was
written in 1884. (P. 478.)
There is a tradition in my mother's family that before a death a large
black dog often appears to BOme of the relations. I was going down stain,
about dinner time, one winter's evening in 1877. The lamps were lighted,
and &II I turned into one of the passages leading to the staircase, I saw a large
black dog walking noisele88ly before me. I thought, in the dim light, it
might be one of our collie dogs, and called "Laddie," but it did not turn or
make any sign. I followed it, feeling uncomfortable, and was still more
startled when, on getting downstairs, every trace of the dog had diSBppeared,
and yet every door was shut.
I said nothing about it to anyone, but often thought of it. Two or three
days later I heard from Ireland of the unexpected death of an aunt, my
mother's sister, in conaequence of an accident.
Mrs. Weiman's sister who sent us this case says it may be depended
upon as "Mrs. Weiman is not at all a fanciful person about such
things, and also anyone who knew the gallery, stairs and hall at Norton
Manor, with heavy swing doors shutting off the other part of the house,
would soo how quite impossible it would be for a real dog to disappear
in the way this one did."
A single case of this kind can have little evidential weight, from
the absence of any manifest relation between the hallucination and the
event which it is supposed to prefigure. But it would be quite possible
that such cases might become evidentially important through frequency
of recurrence. For this they should be recorded with their date before
fulfilment: if they really recur in the experience of particular individuals
and families, the keeping of such records ought to be easy, and were
they kept it would soon be settled beyond a doubt how far the time-
relation between the phantasm and the death is definite and invariable.
What has to be proved is (1) that the particular phantasm is not met
with in the family except in connection with a death; (2) that the
interval allowed between it and the death is sufficiently short in relation
to the number of people whose deaths may be foreshadowed to make it
decidedly unlikely that one of these would die in that interval; (3)
that it is not experienced only when there is expectation of death.
It is important to record the experience before fulfilment to avoid
all unconscious bias in deciding after the event whether the previous
experience was the real symbol or not. For instance, if the symbol
is a black dog, it is important to decide before the event symbolised
On the Evidence fO'r Premonitions. 303
has had time to occur whether what is seen is the black dog or only a
shadow.
These remarks apply not only to visual sYplbols-black dogs,
phantom carriages, &c.-but to auditory ones, shrieks, knocks, &c., of
which two or three cases will be found further on, and to recurrent
symbolic dreams.
Death is not the only event that may be symbolically foreshadowed,
but among the visual and auditory hallucinations we have collected,
the only other event thus indicated is almost the same as death, namely,
funerals_nd as a transition from one to the other I may quote a case
which at least seems to have been a curious coincidence. (P. 55.) It
was sent to us by the Rev. P. A. L. Wood, Rector of Newent,
Gloucestershire, an Associate of the Society. The writer, Miss H., does
not wish her llI\IDe to be mentioned.
My mother and I were once driving in Somersetshire with an old lady of
nearly 80 years of age. She suddenly called to the servants to stop the
carriage and draw up to the side of the road, which was done, though we
wondered at lIuch an unaccountable order. "Now you can go on," IIhe laid
presently, and added, turning to my mother, "I always like to lltop while a
funeral passes." The road was a long, IItraight one, and quite empty of even
II foot-passenger, 110 we laughed at the old lady and told her 110 ; and IIhe
repeated, "Well, it is very odd, I certainly thought I laW one. How
fooIiah the servants must have thought me." The next day occurred the
perfllCtly lIudden death of her moat intimate friend and nearest neighbour-
an old gentleman who used to read to her every day.
In answer to questions, Miss H. writes :-
The drive took place about four o'clock in the afternoon on a fine bright
day. We were staying at Weston-lluper-Mare, where the old lady and
gentleman lived, 110 I heard of his death myself from the old ladY'1I daughter,
the day after it happened. She reminded me ~nd my mother then of the
old ladY'1I idea of two daYII before.
The foreshadowing of fnnerals belongs mainly to a curious set of
Welsh stories, collected by Miss Mary Curtis, an ABBOCiate of the
Society, and which seem to me to form an interesting contribution to
folk-lore. In Wales, as is well known, funerals excite more interest in
neighbours and mere acquaintances than they do here, and are often
accompanied by more uncontrolled signs of emotion, and we must
account thus, I suppose, for the premonitory interest centering in the
funeral rather than in the death. It appears to be a common belief-
at any ra.te in the neighbourhood of Laugharne where these stories
were collected-that phantasmal lights are often seen passing along
the path to be afterwards taken by a coffin; that sounds of the fnneral
-weeping, singing, trampling-are phantasmally rehearsed beforehand,
and that sometimes-but we have no first-hand accounts of this-an
apparition of the person about to die is seen pacing his coffin's future
x
Digitized by Coogle
304 On tM Evidence for Premo'IliticmB.
course. We have even one first-hand account of how five-and-twenty
years &gO a phantom funeral was seen with the same mourners, &c., as
afterwards took Part in the real one j but as the seers were two little
boys of eight and nine, we can hardly rely on the identification. In
second and third-hand accounts these phantom funerals sometimes
knock down and bruise the unfortunate and involuntary witnesses.
Extravagances like this last find no place in first-hand stories, but it is
curious that we have five first-hand accounts of the lights, four of which
are Welsh, and I am not aware that moving lights are a common form
of hallucination elsewhere.
Regarded as evidence for the reality of premonitions these narratives
do not seem to me to come to much. Funerals are likely to pass along
most roads sooner or later, especially when, as seems to be the case in
Wales, people are frequently not buried in the nearest burial ground,
but taken to considerable distances. Indefinite time seems to be
allowed for the fulfilment, and, as the French proverb says: Tout . ,
a qui '(Jit tJttendre. The individual who is to die is not indicated, and
only in one case his residence; and in that one case, where the seer one
evening observes lights coming out of two houses in which deaths occur
at different intervals of some weeks afterwards, we have no reason to
think that the deaths were at all unlikely.
I should hardly have discussed these unsatisfactory premonitioDl
here were it not for the curious prevalence of this particular kind
in one locality, and for the fact that there is one case-not, however,
from Wales-where there does seem to have been a striking coinci-
dence. (P.484.) It is from Mr. Archibald Maclachlan, WemYSS'Bay
Steamboat Company :-
When living in a farmhouse above Glendaruel, Argyleshire, one night,
about 11 p.m., I went out of doors just before going to bed. The hOUM
atood on a hillaide, the road going straight down. I saw a bluish kind of light
coming up the road. I wondered who could be there. The light came
straight up and I saw there was nobody there. A little alarmed, I entered a
gate leading from the road to the house j the light followed. I entered the
porch j it passed along the front of the house before me, and was hidden by
the side of the porch. I had tapped at the window for those inside to come
(lut, but none were quick enough to see it distinctly.
Next day a coffin containing the body of an uncle who had died suddenly
and of whose death we were not aware, came up the road, through the gate,
past the porch, and was taken into the house through the window on the
other side of the porch. I have seen fire-balls, but never a light like this.
(Signed) ABcHIBALD MACLACHLA!I.
I think we ought to allow here for a certain probability that if a
coffin did enter or leave the house it would be taken that way, so that
if the connection between lights and coffins occurred to Mr. Maclachlan
when be saw the light his imagination might be inftueneed accordingly.
Digitized by Coogle
On the" Evidence for Pnmumitiom. 305
If this were so, the premonitory element of the VlB10n may be
explained away; but the coincidence of a death-suggesting appearance
with an unexpected death would remain.
AUDITORY BALLUCIlUTIONS WBBRB DISTINCT IDBAS ARB CONVBYBD
IN WORDS.
These are all the visual cases, which appear to me noteworthy in
the way of evidence. The purely auditory hallucinations fall into very
similar classes; namely (1) cases where distinct ideas are conveyed in
words; (2) cases where sounds to be afterwards heard in reality are
phantasmally heard; (3) symbolic sounds.
Of the first and best class we have, I think, only four specimens, and
these not very strong ones. The following is perhaps the strongest.
It is from Mrs. Morrison, of 131, Cornwall-road, Westboume Park, W.,
with whom Mr. Gurney thoroughly discuBBed the case. She has besides
had BOme dreams which may have been veridical, but hardly, I think,
premonitory. The following incident occurred in Province Wellesley,
Stmits Settlements, in the East Indies, in May, 1878 (P. 377), and the
account was sent to us in 1882. After mentioning several bereave-
ments, Mrs. Morrison continues :-
And last of all a sweet little girl, the pride of its parents' hearts, was
t6ken. Some da}'8 prior to the child s illness, J was lying awake one morning
when I distinctly heard a voice say, .. If there is darkness at the 11th hour
there will be death." In aIarm I started up in bed and the same words were
slowly and deliberately repeated.
Naturally enough, when, about a week after, the child was taken seriously
ill, I watched with perturbed feelings and grave anxiety the &lpect of the sky
day and night, tJie moon being at the full just then. Two or three days passed ;
the little one hovered between life and death; above, the sun blazed with
unmitigated fervour, relentless heat, no sign of cloud or disturbance of the
atmosphere in any way. Twice in the course of every 24 houl'll was 11 o'clock
looked for with trembling apprehension. At last, after more than a week of
this cloudle88 weather, a few minutes before 11 in the morning a squall arose
with extraordinary suddenness ; servants flew to close the Venetian shuttel'll,
making the inside of the house extremely dark. The sky became black with
clouds, and my heart sank. That day, lOOn after one o'clock, the child's spirit
quitted its little mortal frame to enter a life of never-ending joy. I cannot be
mistaken as to the time when the darkness came, &I I had to consult my
watch a little time before in order to give the child medicine.
The fact that .. the 11th hour" is a quasi-proverbial phrase, and
likely perhaps to occur ca.sually to the mind, detracts somewhat from
the evidential value of this story, but it remains a striking one, and
perhaps not the less so from the somewhat bizarre character of the
prophecy.
BOUNDS, AFTBRWARDS BBARD IN RBALITY, PBANTASMALLY BEARD.
I pass on to a specimen of class (2)-a rehearsal of future sounds.
x 2
Digitized by Coogle
306 On the Evidence for PremonitWn8.
It was sent to us by Mrs. Bettany, of 2 Eckington-villas, Asb-
bourne-grove, Dulwich, who has had several experiences apparently
exhibiting spontaneous telepathy, of which one or two are given in
PhanttumB of the Living. It is conceivable that this case may also
have been telepathic, the traveller being the agent. (P. 489.)
Oetobu, 1880.
On the night of October 26th, 1876, I was aroused from sleep by a BOund
like stones thrown at my bedroom window. I got up, opened my window,
and thought I heard the voice of a friend who was many milea away; flO one
t.ea8 there. The next night the same BOund occurred at the same hour. I did
not go to the window till the BOund was twice repeated. Then I opened the
window, and found that very friend had arrived late and quite unexpected
from abroad. He used the exact words I had thought I heard the night
before, at which time he had not reached England.
JEANIE GWYNN BETTAJn'.
. In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Bettany says :-
The house where the circumatance occurred stands in its own groundJ It
a considerable distance from the high road, in the country, of course_
The words spoken were three in number: they were spoken in French,
and merely explained who the person was.
I mentioned it to the housemaid, whose room was next to mine, and
asked her if she had heard it; she said "No," and was much surprised when
the thing repeated itself in reality next night.
In few, if any, of the remaining auditory cases are the BOunds and
the description of them of such a. character as to warrant us in
assuming that they were not real sounds misinterpreted. [See on this
subject, Phantanna, Vol. II., pp. 125-127.] Knocks, sounds of sawing
of timber, cries and screams, rustlings, BOunds of carriage wheels, even
funeral BOunds such as I mentioned above, lamentations, and cries for
help! help! help! if sufficiently distant, may a.ll pOBBibly be misinterpre-
tations of real BOunds, whether they be regarded by the percipients
as a rehearsal of a. BOund subsequently heard, or as symbolic of an
approaching death.
SYMBOLIC SOUNDS.
There are,' however, two striking cases of a shriek recurring
before several deaths. The first (P. (16) was sent in 1883 by Mrs.
Levey, 7, Castle Terrace, Haverfordwest.
On the night of 27th November, 1836, my mother lay dying, at 9 o'clock,
on a night of great rain. There came a fearful wail of a woman's voice, &I if
swaying to and fro past the windows. I ran to the window, but no human
being could be there, as the room was two-pair stairs up, and no houses near.
She died at half-past 10.
On the evening of the 9th August, 1844, my two sisters and self were
sitting together, when a fearful cry came from the street. We ran to the
window-no one to be seen-no house near-a moonlight night. Our eld.
brother, a doctor, died very suddenly on the 10th.
Digitized by Coogle
0'1& the Ev'uu'nCe for Pre'1lW1'/.itiom. 307
My father and family lat at dinner on the evening of the 4th February,
18{8. The lI&Dle fearful cry or wail filled our hOllle. I mentally aaid, "H
that happened in the country, they would lay BOm8C>De at the table would
die." My youngest brother, 23, died quite suddenly at 8 o'clock, on the
morning of the 5th. Same occurrence upon my father's death in 186'1.
Same at the death of sister in 1869. Same at death of next brother, a doctor
of medicine, in 18'10.
I had just awoke, about 4 o'clock in the morning, in month of June,
18'17. I waa horrified to hear my four young nieces on the ataira crying in
the most fearful manner. I got up to light a candle, aa the room waa dark,
but opened my door, and, to my surprise, no perlOn waa there, and it waa
broad daylight. All the inmates of the hOllle were aaleep. Soon after, on
the OOth June, a letter came from the captain of the ship my young nephew
W88 coming from Canada in, to lay that three young men fell overboard in a
8torm ; two were laved, but he waa lost.
Upon this occaaion the hOllle dog howled in a moat fearful manner. The
houae-mother went down and found him crouched down, hair all on end, in
the ooal-cellar. She took him in her arms and kept him at the fire, he
abivering to death.
The matter did not occur to me aa npenwUural until the inqueat upon
my youngest brother, when a lady of the hOllle laid, "011. did you hear that
moat awful cry of a woman laat evening t " I made no remark, but felt that,
having 80 many times heard it, it muat be what we call in Ireland .. The
Banahee." I had often in my young days heard people apeak of it, but did
not believe it.
I may remark that upon the deatha of the three who died suddenly, it waa
more fearful than any.
FRANCES LEVBY.
In the last instance given by Mrs. Levey, it might be suggested
that the house dog was suddenly taken ill and himself made all the
noise, but it is not easy to account for the series.
Another striking" Banshee" case (P. 634), though with longer
intervals between the shrieks and the death than .in the one just
quoted, comes to us from Mrs. Treloar, of River, Dover, and her sister,
Mrs. Gardiner. The following account was taken down by Mr. Myers,
from a conversation with the two ladies in April, 1888, and afterwards
revised and signed as correct by them. Parts of a previous letter of
Mrs. Treloar's are introduced into the account.
In June, 1863, we both were awoke from sleep at home at Weeford
Rectory, Staft'ordahlre, by a wailing BOund. We went all over the hOllie,
which atands quite alone in open country,l but could discover nothing. On
this occasion neither our mother nor any servants were woke by the noise.
But we found a favourite bulldog, a very courageous animal, trembling with
terror, with hia nose thrust into BOme billets of firewood which were kept
under the ataira. On June 28th, 1863, our mother died.
1 Mr. Myen waa shown a photograph of the house with gardeD alld fields roulld it,
which IIOClCIJ'da with this deacriptiOll.
Digitized by Coogle
308 On the Evidence for Premonitions.
The next OCC8IIion was by far the most startling. About the end of
August, 1879, we were at our father's rectory. He had been an invalid for
some time, but was not worse than usual, and, in fact, performed service on
Sunday, 31st August, though he died on September 9th. On a night, then,
towards the end of August, we had all gone to bed, viz., our father, we two
daughters in separate rooms, our brother F. H. Cowpland, since deceased,
a groom, a cook, and a young housemaid, sleeping in different parts of the
house, which was large for a country rectory. The night was calm ; there
were no trains anywhere near, no other houses, no screech-owls, no poBBibility
of passers-by, and ordinarily, all was perfectly still. But on that night
between 12 and 1 o'clock every person in the house, except our father, was
awoke by a terrible sound of shrieking or wailing, unlike anything which we
have ever heard, except on the other OCC8IIions here mentioned, but louder
than at any other time. It seemed to come from the passage leading past
our father's door. My sister and I leapt out of bed-no· one could have
slept through such a BOund-struck matches and lit candles, and rushed out
without even waiting to put dreBBing-goWDs on. We met in the pasuge, and
there, too, met my brother and the three servants, all equally terrified with
ourselves. The wail or shriek seemed borne on a wind (though the night
was still) ; it seemed inside the house, among the rafters, and after a time,
which might perhaps be a minute or more, it seemed to paBB out at a window
and died away. The bulldog ran under a bed. In great alarm, we went
into our father's room, but he was sleeping peacefully-not heavily, but quite
undisturbed by the noise. Next morning we cautiously alluded to it, but he
had heard nothing. We think it absolutely impoBBible that anyone ill
ordinary sleep could have slept through that noise, and can only suppoao
that the noise in BOrne way did not BOund to hinl. He died about a fortnight
afterwards, September 9th, 1879. With regard to the gloomy character of
the noise heard, we may add that our father, though personally happy to
depart, and full of faith, was for our sakes very reluctant to die just then,
lmowing that his death would leave us in much trouble of various kinds.1
In 1885 I (Mrs. Treloar) was married and living in my husband's house,
The Firs, Bromyard. Mrs. Gardiner was staying with us. My brother,
F. H. Cowpland, was living five miles off at the Upper House, Bishop's
Frome, Staffordshire. He was not ill in the middle of May. But we two
sisters, Emily Corbett, and other servants (Mr. Treloar was away from home)
1 In a letter written in March, 1888, Mrs. Treloar thus describes the incident:
II At between 1 and 2 o'clock we were all asleep, when the mORt extraoniiaary
IOnnd awoke the household. I got up, lit my candle, went into my sister'. room and
found ber up also. The eound as I went there seemed to rush put me and 11''' like an .
awful howling followed by shriek upon shriek, accompanied by what aesmt"d to be a
strong wind, although everytbing out of dool'll was perfectly still. My sister and I
ran to my brother's room and there found him up; the tbres servants aleo were comiag
down the stail'll from tbe top of the house. The cook bUl'llt into te&I'II and aaid, •Ob,
the master I the muter! Th.tis hiH warning.' The lIOund was still continuing. We
went into my father's room and there fonnd him sleeping mORt peacefully. • . .
A curious circumstance oonnected witb it w.... we had thres dogs sleeping in my
sUter'. and my bedrooms and they were all oowering down witb affright, 'heir briRl.
standing straight up ; one-a bulldog-WIUI under tbe bed and refused to come out,
and when removed wei fonnd to be trenlbling an over."
Digitized by Coogle
On the E'Il'idenct JOT Premonitilms
again heanl the wail at night, though not 10 loudly as before. We got up
from bed and looked about, but could find nothiDg. On May 26th, 1885,
our brother died.
Again, at the end of August, 1885, J (Mrs. Treloar), Emily Corbett, and
other servants not now traceable, heard the same lOund. The Firs, however,
WIllI not 10 IOlitary a house as Weeford Rectory, and the noise was not 10
overwhelming as before my father's, death. I endeavoured to penruade myself
that it might have been caused by men in the road i but I felt very uneuy
about Mrs. Gardiner, who had gone to stay at Bettwa-y-Coed, being rather
out of health. Mm Gardiner is still alive and well, but another sister, Miaa
Annie Cowpland, who waa perfectly well when the wailing waa heard, died
about a week later from diphtheria.
Emily Corbett, the servant above mentioned, cannot write, but the
part containing particulars of what she heard was read over to her
and she stated they were correct, and affixed her mark.
Mrs. Treloar saw an apparition of this same sister at the time, so
far as can be ascertained. of her sickening with the virulent form of
diphtheria, of which, in a very few days she died; and an apparition
of her was seen, apparently simultaneously, or almost simultaneously, in
another room, by a niece of hers. It is also interesting to note, as appar-
ently showing a family tendency, that Mrs. Treloar's mother three
times saw apparitious of people at the time of their death. Accounts
of all these cases are printed in the Journal for December, 1888.
The following case deserves consideration in connection with the
two just given. The narrator does not wish her name to 'be published,
nor does her sister, who, however, confirms the account,1 (P. 63.)
The incident here narrated by one of the witnesses, occurred in a country
house on the northern cout of Cornwall, where dwelt (and still dwells) one
of those old Cornish fantilles whose name bespeaks their Celtic origin.
Though it happened long ago, many are now living who would not like to see
their name in print in connection with 10 strange a story, therefore it cannot
be made publio.
At the time of the occurrence, one of the IOns, a boy 11 years of age, was
ill of scarlet fever, but biB condition had 10 much improved that biB father
and aiaters confidently expected biB recovery i an opinion whioh was not
sbared by one at leut of the doctors, nor by biB mother and aunt, who were
his devoted nurses. John hin1self had, from the first, looked Death in the
face, and prepared to meet him.
On a bright afternoon in the end of March, the setting sun was lighting up
the west room, in which three of John's sisters and biB next brother, young
people between the ages of 10and 20, were indulging in an animated discus-
sion. They had just come up from dinner, at which their father had spoken
with lOme acorn of.the unwillingness of the young doctor, who had been there
that morning, to admit decided improvement in biB patient i although he
1 Another ouriows instance of .. violent and unexplained noWe disturbing a wbole
houaebold is deecribed in PllantanM 0/the Lj\-mg (Cue 3(11). VoL II., p. 149, and is
wonh referring to.
Digitized by Coogle
allowed that both strength and appetite had increased. Their mother bad
made no reply to their father's sanguine expectatioDB, but sat silent with tean
in her eyes. The young people took their father's view, and were indignant
that anyone should doubt John's recovery. One of them made a satirical
remark, at which they all laughed.
Before that laugh ceased, there rang through the room, as if uttered by a
person standing on the landing at the open door, a loud and piercing ahriek;
then a pause, and another shriek; after another pause, a third, louder,
deeper, and ending in a gurgling rattle, like the laat effort of expiring nature.
Horrified indeed they all were; time can never efl"ace the remembrance of
those awful sounds.
Their father, who was alone in the drawing-room on the other side of the
hall, came hastily across to the foot of the staircase, and calling to one of bia
daughters, who he knew was in the west room, asked, "What WIll the
matter; who was IICreaming in that dreadful manner 1" Immediate inquiriea
were made by his orders, for he would not allow for a moment there could be
any but a natural cause. The servants were at tea in a distant part of tile
house, and they all gave the same account. They had heard three ahrieks,
uttered by a woman's voice, which appeared to come from the hall or west
room; certainly not from their part of the house.
The youngest child, two and a-half years old, was with her nurse in a
room not far from the west room. She asked in great astonishment, "Who
IICreams, Ellen 1 I didn't 1ICream."
The strangest part remains to be told. The sick-roonl was so situated that
sounds in the hall and staircase were audible there; and soon after, the
short, single bark with which an old spaniel always announced the arrival of
the doctors, was heard there. But the awful shrieks which ran through
every other part of the house were not heard. John, and his mother and
aunt who were with him, were quite uncoDIICious that anything had happened.
Three weeks after, John died, strong in faith and hope; for him, no warning
was needed.
Every attempt to discover a natural cause was made, but in vain, by those
most anxious to deprive the circumstance of significance. No other
interpretation could be given but that it was a warning specially sent to those
who needed it ; and its immediate effect was to produce a state of mind in
those who heard it, which prepared them for the event that was to follow.
Fifteen years after, when the beloved youngest daughter lay in the sleep
from which she never awoke, sounds of hysterical wailing and sobbing 'II'ent
about the house, but she heard them not. Two of the sona died abroad, but
no warning sound was heard j nor, when the aged father and mother
departed.
Such are the facts ; who shall interpret them t
It will be observed that most of these "Banshees" were heard by
several people, 80 that, if not real natural sounds, they must have been
collective hallucinations, on which see p/umta.nns of eM LitJiflg,
Chapter XVIII. This concludes the claBB of auditory hallucinatioDs.
VBRBAL PROPHBClES.
From my third CM of caaea-that of verbal prophecies by peraoos
Digitized by Coogle
On the E~ for Premonitions. 311
professing to see into the future-evidence of a definite and unam-
biguous kind might be expected; but we have only three cases at
first-hand, of which the following (P. 7) appears to me to be the
strongest. The lady who communicated it to us (in 18R2), and who
desired that her name should not be given, says that when in America
she was taken by a Spiritualist friend to a medium's house. She then
continues ;-
Though I had only arrived in Boston the day before, her guides inatlmtly
recoguiaed that I came over the water, and opened up, Dot only my put life,
but a great deal of the future. They aaid I had a picture of my family with
me, and on producing it, the medium told me (in trance) that two of nly
children were in the spirit world, and, pointing to one lIOn in the group, she
aid, "You will BOOn have this one there; he will die suddenly,-but you
must not weep for him; he will be taken from the evil to come. It is not
often permitted to tell these things, but we see it is beat for you, that you
may know it is no accident."
I had not been home many weeks, before my lIOn, a brave boy of 17, was
killed at a game of football.
Mr. Podmore was shown a copy of the photograph in question,
which represented a group of eight or ten children.
This case seems to me remarkable, but we find in it again tbe
want of detail which lessens the value of BO many of the cases I
am quoting, a.nd I fear it is impossible to obtain more information
about it. It is very difficult to estimate tbe probability tha.t this true
statement was pure]y accidental without knowing wbether it is pickPd
out of many things said by the medium, of whicb the larger part
wereeitber easy to gueBB or false, and have very likely been forgotten.
It is clear that if enough things are said BOme will in the long run be
true, and my experience with a medium of this kind1 is that a great
many guesses are made and attempts to draw information from oneself.
Still the prophecy is undeniably a bold one, nor is it the kind of
prophecy which one would suppose likely to be good for the trade.
The fourth class-non-extemaliaed impressions of various kinds-
is not a la.rge one in our collection, and as it happens contains no
case which seems to me to be worth quoting at the present stage of
the investigation.
OUBSAL DI8CU8810N OF DRBAMjiVIDENCE.
There remains to be considered the evidence from dreams. As
already stated, about two-thirds of our first-hand cases are dreams,
and it is on them that the argument fof premonitions mainly rests,
which in itself puts the premonitory evi!ence in a lower rank than tbe
1 Probably ,be medium concerned iD th,k
• Darrative, but our informant is Dot
certain aboutthis. r
Digitized by Coogle
312 On tlte Evid~nce for Premonitions.
telepathic. For there are special sources of weakness in dream·
evidence, which have been so fully discussed in PIw.marm" of
the Living, Chapter VIII. (see especially pp. 298-300), that I need
not do more than briefly indicate them here. The first is one that
occurs at once to every educated person who bears of premonitory
dreams :-that thel"e are so many dreams dreamt every night that some
of them must come true. This objection does not apply-at least in
any obvious way-to the waking hallucinations with which we ha,·e
hitherto been chiefly concerned. Such a hallucination is for most persons
who have one-including most of our informants---either a singular or&
very rare experience; and it is 1m experience which is not likely to
be forgotten. Hence, if anyone has a waking hallucinatory vision,
suggesting the idea of death, of a near relative then in good health,
and the relative dies very soon after, the coincidence is at any rate &
remarkable one; but, considering the immense number of dreams which
we must suppose to have occurred within the period from which our
records are taken, the mere fact that the dream of a relative's death
has been soon followed by the event is hardly worth noting.
But this general objection to the evidential value of dreams is not
insuperable; it can be overcome if the correspondence between the
dream and the event is sufficiently definite and detailed: since the
probability that such a correspondence could occur by accident
diminishes very rapidly with each detail that is added. Here, however,
we have to notice a special source of weakness in the quality of dream·
evidence, which is independent of the frequency of dreams, viz.: that
our memory for dreams being less vivid and less trustworthy than our
memory for waking experiences. details are more apt to he
unconsciously read back into dreams, so that the dreams assume &
definiteness and precision and fulness of detail which do not really
belong to them. This source of weakness is excluded, if the dream
has been told to some one else before the fulfilment arrives,-as is the
case in most of the instances which I am about to give-so far as we
can rely on the memory of the person to whom it was told. But this
confirmatory memory-especially if it has to recall events some years
old-must be supposed to have not only the average liability to error
which attaches to human memories generally, but also a further
special liability to error due to (1) the tendency. we all have to
exaggerate the marvt'l\ous, (2) the tendency to yield unconsciously to
the dreamer's strong conviction that he mentioned bej(Y1'tl the event
what he has only mentioned afterwards, (3) the tendency to ante-date
the impression produced by these subsequent repetitions. I dwell on this
liability to error ill the confirmatory memory-of the effect of which
we had one undoubted and strik:.ng example in collecting the evidence
for Phantattms cif the Living-not because I wish to exaggerate it, bu~
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence for Premonitions. 313
in order to emphasise the great advantage, from an investigator's point
of view, of a written record, in any case of this kind, where exactness
in details is fundamentally important.
There are other ways, besides correspondence of definite details, in
which the evidential weakness of dream-evidence due to the frequency
of dreams may be at least diminished Thus if the dream that appears
premonitory was of a unique or peculiarly impressive kind, it immedi·
ately faUs into a special cla88 of dreams, much smaller than the
whole genus: 80 that the probability of its coincidence with the event
being due to accident is proportionately diminished. But it is important
that this unique or .impressive character should be noted before fulfil-
ment; since we 80 frequently forget our dreams altogether that it
is difficult to feel sure that any particular fulfilled dream is really
unique because it seems 80 after fulfilment. To take an extreme case :
H I dreamt once a week that the house would catch fire the next day,
I should clearly not be justifiE:'<l in regarding it as e"ven a curious
coincidence if the fire actually occurred. But supposing I always
forgot the dreams except on the particular occasion when the actual
fire recalled it, it would have the false appearance of a striking
premonition. And dreams may be remembered for a time ~fter
waking, but make no permant'nt impression when not fulfilled, such as
'an exactly similar dream would do if it were strikingly fulfilled.
The following case shows how quite impressive dreams may be
forgotten if not recallt>d by their apparent fulfilment. It is curious
that it is one of the very few dreams in our collection which have
conveyed a useful warning. (P. 487.) It is from Mrs. Reay, 99, Holland-
road, Kensington.
September 17th, 1884.
I was going to spend the day with my sister at Roehampton, and the night
previous, just as I was going to sleep, I was startled by a vision before me of
the carriage, which was to meet me at Mortlake Station, being upset in
the road close by her house. This quite woke me up, and I tried to forget it,
but on going off to sleep again the same vision returned, exactly as at the
firat, and I then began to feel very nervous about my visit of the next day ;
but eventually I went to sleep, and it did not come back to my mind. When
I woke in the morning it was as a dream, quite gone.
I went by train to Mortlake, and had to wait at the station for a few
minutes. Then the groom drove up quickly with a pony carriage, and
apologised for the carriage not being there, but the order had not been given
in time to get it ready.
Everything went on smoothly till we were driving up the lane to my
lister's house, when the horse became very restive, the groom got down, but
could find nothing wrong, so we went 011 ; this happened a secondand a third
time, but when he was examining the horse for the third time my vision of
the night before suddenly came back to me, and I told the groom I would
get out and walk to the house; he tried to disluade me, but I felt nervous
Digitized by Coogle
314 On the Evidence for P,·e1lumitions.
and insisted upon walking, BO he drove oft" by himself, and had only got a
very short distance from Dle when the horse became quite unmanageable. I
hurried on BOme men in the road to help him, but before they reached him the
carriage, horae and groom were all in a confused broken heap in the hedge,
just as I had seen it the night before, though Dot exactly in the same spot.
Thegroom managed to extricate himself, but when I got up to him he aaid he
was BO thankful I insisted upon getting out, for he could Dot poBBibly have
Baved me from a dreadful accident.
I had no fear of horses. I should certainly not have left the carriage but
for the forewarning of the previous night.
EMILY Ruy.
If my husband was awake I poaaibly should mention the circumatance ro
him before going to sleep, but it is BOme time since and I forget. I could
not have mentioned it to him afterwards, as it had quite gone from my mind
till the accident took place.
Mr. Reay writes:-
I also recollect about a dream my wife had, and the carriage accident.
In the evening of the accident I well remember her, when recounting the
incident to me, telling me it was the sudden recurrence to her mind of a
dream she had had the previou8 night that induced her, contrary to the wish
of the groom, who was driving, to insist upon quitting the carriage, after the
third time the horae became BO restive.
S. Ruy.
Mr. Gurney adds a note that Mrs. Reay had told him this story in
a personal interview, and that he feels sure that it is accurate.
RECOGNITION OF DREAM-SCENERY.
What ha.s been said a.bove of the unconscious reading back of
details into dreams after the supposed fulfilment, will explain why I
cannot regard the mere recognition of dream-scenery &8 satisfactory
evidence of any supemormal character in a dream. But there is ODe
class of cases in which such recognition has a special evidential value,
that is, when, upon recognising the place, the percipient is able, owing
to his dream, to make some aSBertion as regards present or future, which
he would have been unable to make had he not dreamt it; if, for
instance, he can say in a place quite unknown to him, " Round the
next comer there is such and such a shop"; or, "In & few minutes I
shall meet BO and BO." First to recognise the place and thence to
predict the incident is evidently a very different thing from first recog.
nising the incident and then the place, provided the incident is of a
sufficiently definite and improbable kind. We have BOme cases of this
kind, but not, I think, any quite conclusive ones. The following is,
perhaps, the strongest. (P. 95.) It appeared in the Sputa"" in
1881 :-
I was staying with a friend, a clergyman, in South CarnarvollBhire, ill
March, 1877, I think, and dreamt that I was one of a shooting party. One
Digitized by Coogle
On the E1J'id£nce for Premonitions. 315
of the party shot a woodcock. When I awoke I was impreBlled with a very
vivid recollection of my dream, and its locality, which, as it appeared to me,
I had never seen before.
I had no occasion to mention the dream until the afternoon, when the
following circumstances occurred. Returning with my friend from a long
walk in the neighbourhood of Madym Park, we chanced to fall in with the
Squire's gamekeeper carrying his gun on his shoulder. My friend and the
keeper walked on lIome 50 or 60 yards in advance of me.
They presently turned off the road at right angles, and disappeared from
my view. When I came to the IIPOt where they had left the road, I saw them
following a path through a dingle. Though I had never been in the
neighbourhood before, I felt the scene was familiar to me. I stopped to
collect my thoughts and reconcile the inconsistency. In a moment it flashed
npon me that this was the scene of my last night's dream. I had a strange
feeling of expectation; the identity of the scene became every moment
clearer and clearer; my eyes fell on the exact spot where the woodcock of
my dream had risen; I was certain the event of my dream would be inevit-
ably re-enacted. I felt I must speak, and that there was not a moment to
lose. I shouted to my friend, "Look out! I dreamt I IIhot a woodcock here
last night." My friend turned and replied, "Did you 1"
The words were hardly out of his mouth and the gun off the keeper's
shoulder (1 was still intently gazing on the very foot of ground), when up
gets a woodcock-the woodcock of my dream, and falls to the keeper's gun-
a capital llnap shot. We were all not a little astonished, the keeper,
moreover, remarking that he thought all the woodcocks had left the country
some weeks before.-I am, sir, &c.,
THOHAR WARREN TREVOR.
The Vicarage, Penmon, Beaumaris.
October 8th, 1881.
In reply to questions, Mr. Trevor wrote on June 9th, 1884:-
1\ I have no recollection of having ever had a prevision or any other
psychical experience at any other time.
2. Woodcocks are not rare in the district during the season, but none had
been seen by the keeper for some weeks before, and the season was con-
sidered to be over; this alone constitutes the unusualness of killing a
woodcock in that particular place.
Appended is a letter from the Rev. Canon Johnson to Mr. Trevor,
written, as Mr. Trevor tells us, "quite independently of my narrative,
which he did not see before he wrote."
Leaniestyn Rectory, Carnarvonshire.
June Utl" 1884.
DEAR TREVOR,--I have a perfect recollection of what you allude to.
You were spending a couple of days with me in March, when one morning
I took you to see a place in the neighbourhood, where you had never
previously been. On our arrival there, the day being fine, and having fallen
in with the keeper (poor fellow! since dead), I proposed going down to the
marsh to take a farewell shot at the snipe, the present close season not
316 On the Evidence jO'l' Premonitions.
having been then fixed. This we did, and after a time retumed towards the
house, skirting the covers as we went, when all at once, ait.er cruuing a iane
into a glade between two woods, you caught hold of me with a scared look on
your face, and exclaimed, .. Good Heavens! I dreamt last night I saw this
place, and a woodcock got up just there," pointing to the edge of one of the
covers towards which the keeper was approaching with the gun j and whillt
I, half surprised, half amused, was beginning to question you on the matter,
much to our joint surprise a woodcock actually did rise from the very spot
you had pointed out,and was immediately shot by the keeper.-W.JoDSON.
The coincidence is certainly striking. At the same time, it has to
be admitted that the evidential value of this case, regarded as
a prediction of an unexpected event after recognition of the BOOne
depends on the possibility of accurately discriminating which was the
first of two very nearly simultaneous mental acts-the idea that thewood·
cock would rise and the perception that it was rising. Woodcocks do not,
I presume, rise absolutely without warning. There is doubtless some
slight sound, some slight movement of the herbage as the bird begins
to move and before it is visible, which would instinctively suggest a
woodcock to a practised sportsman. And we should, I think, be
attributing to Mr. Trevor exceptional power of observing the sequence
-of his own ideas if we assumed that he had not had any such instinctive
perception of the woodcock before he felt the conviction that it would
rise. The whole thing, it will be observed, passed in a few seconds. In
another case-in which the coincidence, apart from illusion of memory,
would be also striking-I think there is special reason for supposing
,such illusion to have occurred. Mr. A. writes in February, 1883
(P. 385):-
In the spring of 1878 I had an extraordinarily vivid dream, 80 vivid that
it made a great impreaaion on me, and the leading facts of it remained
indelibly fixed upon my mind. When the dream took place I was residing in
London. '
In the autumn of 1878 I paid a visit,to the United States, and while there
went to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a place I had never been to before. I
arrived at Pittsburgh at 11.30 p.m., and went straight to my hotel, which
was situated close to the railway station. The following morning I made my
way into the town to find the offices of a man whose acquaintance I had made
in Paria during the BUmme1' of 1878. As I advanced up the main street,
everything seemed strangely familiar to me, and then it suddenly flashed
upon me, .. Why, this is the place I saw in that dream." As this startling
fact dawned upon me, I found I had reached the street I required (which
intersected the one I was in), and, not knowing how the numbers ran, I was
about to ask for information, when I remembered that in my dream the o/lice
I had visited was on a hill, with shopB on either side of it. Looking to the
right, I noticed that there was a considerable elevation to the street, and
determined to teat my dream. I walked direct to the group of houaea, and.
stopping in front of the centre houae, said to myself, "If this is not lOme
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence /0'1' Pnmumiti<ms. 317
wonderful coincidence, p.os offices ought to be here." There on the aide of
the doorway, amongst numerous other names, .11 the name of my friend,
and 1 walked through the dark entrance paaaage, up a narrow ftight of stain,
and straight into my friend's office.
There WII a aecond incident in thiB remarkable dream that waa &lao
fuI1illed in every particular :-1 dreamt that 1 WII in what appeared to me
to be a library, and that there 1 had a struggle with a very powerful man,and
aucceeded in getting the beat of the encounter. 1 then (in my dream) left
the room, and paaaing down a narrow staircase with a man in front of me,
who appeared to be an intimate friend, WII struck by the curious manner in
which his hair grew at the back of hiB neck, and made lOme laughing remark
with regard to it.
Now this aecond portion of my dream waa ful1illed in every particular. In
my friend's office (he waa a lawyer, and hiB room was filled with books) I had
a wreatllng match (quite a friendly one bien entendu) with another American
lawyer, who WII supposed to be the strongest man in the town, and got the
best of it. My dream never came into my head at this time, but later on in
the afternoon I WII following my friend down the ataira when I WII struck
by the curious growth of hiB hair, and aaid, laughingly, "Why, P., you have
got a regular duck's tail.JJ Leaning forward I seized hold of it, meaning to
give him a hearty pull, but II I did 10 the recollection of my dream suddenly
lIaahed upon me, and 1 aat right down upon the ataira, utterly aatounded for
the moment. Now you must bear in mind that at the time of my dream 1
had never seen this friend.
The reaaon why thiB dream made such a very extraordinary impreBBion
upon me waa that I could in no way account for the incidents in it being 10
impreeaed upon me, II there WII really nothing in them to account for it. I
have no recollection of mentioning the dream to anyone before its fulfilment,
and have only related it to two people since--viz., to my friend on the spot,
81 an explanation of my Bitting on the stairs like a stuck pig, and lOme two
orthree yean ago to my mother.
I may, perhaps, add that in 1878 I WII 26 yeara of age, in robust health,
and one of the laat men in the world to indulge in any superstitious non-
eenae.
It is the second part of this dream which ma.kes me think that Mr.
A. waa the victim of a memory-illusion, because it seems to me difficult
to believe that, afWr he had recalled his dream, the wrestling match
should occur without his at once remembering that it also occurred
in the dream, if it really had done so. I think, therefore, that we have
here a case where the supposition that incidents were read back into
tbe dream is more than a Dlere conjecture. If I am right, it is worth
noting how very strong the memory-illusion was when it came.
DRUMS FORESHADOWING DUTHS.
The dreams I have now to relate have almOilt all been either told or
acted on before fulfilment. J will begin with death ca.ses. Of course,
aa we must all die, a mere dream of death bas DO value in itself. It
must include the date of death or some unlikely circumstance connected
Digitized by Coogle
318 On the Evidence for Premonition8.
with the death. In the case I will first give (P. 88) nothing is remem·
bered of the dream except a date associated with the idea of misfortune.
Mr. Edisbury, Belgrave House, Wrexham, writes:-
Flhnl4ry 4th, ISM.
In the year 1859, I was with a medical man here as student. On the
night of June 9th, in that year, I dreamed a dream, and when I awoke in
the morning I could not recollect the details, but the date, June 9th, 1864,
was forcibly impreesed on my memory.
I went to the surgery and told the 881istant surgeon of my dream, and I
said, "Look here, I will write the date on the underpart of this mantel·
piece, 'June 9th, 1864, J. F. E.,' and if you are here you will see that on
that day I shall die, or a calamity will overtake me." I wrote as above;
time went on. I left the profession, went into a business. In 1863, June
9th, I married, and on June 9th, 1864, my wife died, and only on the even·
ing of that day did the recollection of my dream (five years before) come
. back to me.
The end of that month I took two friends up to the old surgery, and there
was my memo: "June 9th, 1864, J. F. E."
Strange ! is it not 1
J. F. EDISBUlty.
In answer to questions, Mr. Edisbury wrote in February, 1884:-
Did I think the dream betokened calamity 1
Yes-so much so that I told those in the surgery (where I noted the date
on the mantel.shelf) that something terrible would happen to me on that
date (June 9th, 1864), and the impreesion remained many weeks, but all time
went on it eacaped my thoughts until the evening before my wife's death-
when it came like a "flash of lightning" on my mind, as the doctor came
downstairs and said, "There is no hope for your wife..,
Have I ever had other dreams making equally strong impreaaions 1
No-not such strong impressions-but have very frequently had tririal
circumstances verified, of which I had previously dreamed.
Did I note down any other dream 1
No-not in writing.
Recently (1888) we wrote to Mr. Edisbury, asking whether the
memorandum was made in pencil or in ink. In reply he states that he
wrote it with a pen. In this letter he gives substantially the same
account of the experience, but refers to the dream as a "thrice dreamt
dream." Also he gives 1858 as its date instead of 1859, so that there
seems to be a slight uncertainty as to when it occurred.
All the persons mentioned in this narrative, except Mr. Edisbury
himself, are now dead, so that no corroboration is possible. The surgery
also no longer exists, having been altered and turned into a painter's
workshop. And there is no contemporary record of the event, 80 that
we are dependent on Mr. Edisbury's unaided memory. It is a memory,
however, not only of the dream, but of a very peculiar record ofit which
marks it off from other dreams.
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence for PTtnnonitiom. 319
. In the next case (P. 96) the date of death is again the important
feature. It is from Mrs. M. Smith, 32, Beaumont-square, W.C.
Some 12 y8lU'll ago my husband wall in SootJand, where he had a ataft'
appointment. Ria mother wall an old woman ; she lived in Ireland. I
dreamed three nights running she was dying. The third time, I jumped up
and laid to Major Smith, "Oh that horrid dream again, and lOme one baa
just wru.pered in my ear, 'She will last but five week..'" He laughed at
me. Thia was 5 o'clock in the morning; winter, and dark. When
daylight came, I 1'OIIe and wrote down the dream. In it I saw her on a bed,
high·pillowed up. The place wall strange to me. Each time I dreamt, I
tried to get to her, as she wanted me ; but, as in nightmare, I oould not
move a step.
I received a letter that or next day to say she was very well, had, indeed,
"taken a pew 1_ of life." My letter Cl'OII8ed this. About four days later,
I got one to say she had been "taken for death"---..truck by paralysis, and
had asked for me. Small-pox was in Dublin very bad, her ooachman was ill
of it, and one of her IOna. My husband refuBed to allow me to go. In a
day or two came another letter urging me to go, and sending me money for
my journey. Major Smith still refuied, saying, if I should go it would be
without his sanction : he feared the infection for me. However, I packed a
portmanteau ready to start should he say yea. She lasted exactly five weeks
to the very hour, dying at (making allowance for the dift'erence of time) the
hour and moment of the five weeks' end. Almost her last worda were,
" Why did not 'Jane come to me ,"
Here was my dream in full. I tried to get to her but failed. She died
in Dublin in strange lodgingll.
Major Smith writes September 12th, 1884 :-
All the particulars of my wife's dream as narrated by her are strictly
correct. I remember her waking me and stating that for the third time she
had dreamt of my mother's death, and that IOmeone had said in her ears
that she, my mother, would last but five weeks. This my mother did~ to
the very hour, I believe. She was in her usual health at· the time of the
dream.
M. E. SllITH, Major.
Mr. Podmore writes :-
In OODveraation, Mrs. Smith explained that at the time of the dream her
mother-in-law was actually in the strange lodginga, 10 that the only prophetic
part of the dream was the prevision of the date of death. Mrs. Smith has
had no other prophetic dream ; but baa frequently had obscure presentiments
of misfortune. She baa also seen an apparition which may have been
veridical. (L. 1018.)
Here again no contemporary documentary evidence can now be
procured.
A third case of date foreseen is older than either of these. It was
y
Digitized by Coogle
320 On the Evidence lor Premonitions.
sent to us by Mr. John Holmes, of Morden College, Blackbeath.
(P. 4-26.)
J4t6tUlry 16th, 1883.
Having been connected with certain speculative transactions, which
terminated unfortunately, it wu considered incumbent upon me, in the
.pring of 1853, to settle with numerous creditors, which two brothers of mine
undertook to arrange. I may mention that at the time referred to it was
aBIIumed that I should come into po_ion, on the decease of two uncles, of
eonsiderable property and money; consequently the basis of the settlement
W&8 the conveyance of my interest in the said reversion on the death of the
parties referred to. .My brothers, without my privity or consent, agreed
with creditors to become sureties for the payment of their claims, and in
certain exceptional cues to pay interest until the property was realiJed·
Well, in the course of a week or two, I met, by special appointment, my
brothers and different 8Olicitors representing creditors, and various deeda
were placed before me for my signature, but upon discovering that my
brothers had rendered themselves personally liable in every case for payment
of principal, and in lOme instances for payment of interest, I declined
executing any of the documents then, but at the entreaty of my brothers,
who declared their perfect willingneas to sign, and undertake their respon·
sibility by 80 doing, I consented to think the matter seriously over, and to
give a final answer at noon of the following day. I retired to rest, no doubt
with my thoughts much absorbed with the subject of the proposed settlement
. with my creditors, and, &8 it seemed before awakening, a gentlemanly
individual addressed me, or appeared 80 to do, observing, "You will be
surprised to hear that----w&8 taken ill on Thursday, the 13th, and is deAd.
and his surviving brother is not expected to live many weeks." I replied.
or &8 I seemed to reply, "Thursday W&8 not the 13th, but the 16th. How
is that 1 there must be lOme mistake." Then came the remark, "What I
have stated is absolutely true," at the 88me time reiterating the aBII8l'tion
as to the day and date.
After breakf&8t, the extraordinary information having made a forcible
impreaaion on my mind, I referred to an almanack at a friend's chambers,
and ascertained that Thursday the 13th only occurred once during the year
of 1853, and that it W&8 in the month of October. When my brothers called
upon me at noon, I declared my unalterable determination to do nothing
further in the settlement of my affairs, on the basis before indicated, until
November, being ridiculed for my refu88I, when I stated my reason. Months
went by, and with the exception, probably, of myself, the occurrence of my
ghostly visitor had been forgotten, when I received a letter from one of
my brothers, who resided in the North of England, on Saturday, the 16th of
October, to the effect that----had been taken ill on Thursday, and wu dead,
and that his brother W&8 not expected to survive many weeks; he died, in
fact, 011 the 6th November following.
I W&8 unable to induce certain influential parties to intervene, in the
interval between spring and November, 80 &8 to induce the old gentlemen to
put their respective hOUBeB·in good order, 80 that in case of death their
worldly matters would be free from dispute or entanglement, the consequence
Digitized by Coogle
On the E~ce lor Prt:mO'1I.itiom. 321
of which was thatinBtead of succeeding to estatel and property of considerable
value, I became a party to 13 Chancery luita, 10 that no wile end wall
_ered by the visitation I wall favoured with, excepting the absence of any
involvement on the part of my brothers in the settlement of my &COOunts.
.TolDI' HoLlOll.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Holmes says :-
Ja.WU4ry 25th, 1883.
My uncles, at the time of my unexpected visitor, were old men, but not:
considered to be in failing health, and the family wall regarded as long-lived
which you will believe to be the cue when I infonn you that no death
occorred amongst my father'l nine brothers and aiaters for 47 yean. My
father and grandfather died at the age of 90 or thereabouts.
I did not recognise the man whom I laW in my vision &I a friend, but I
was under the imprellion that I had seen him before, but any inquiry on
that point W&l checked by the individual at once entering upon the apparent
object of his million.
The three brothers, &I well &I my father, to whom I related the occur-
rence, have died lince, but a brother who resides in the North may recollect
having heard me relate the narrative.
Later, he writes :-
I wrote to a brother of mine, residing at Liverpool, &I to his recollection
of the narrative of my dream in the Ipring of 1853, in connection with the
death of our lurviving uncles. He replied on May 25th &I followl :-
"I well remember the account of your dream or vision which you refer
to, but where is the double-walled room in which the money or title deeds
are to be found 1 I only hope you will yet find lOme clue or traces, &I I know
there W&l at least £100,000 not accounted for."
I cannot recall to mind anything in relation to the inquiry conoeming
the double-walled room, &0., &0.
J OBN HoLMBS.
Ma.y 28th, 1883.
The following corroboration is from Mr. W. Bingham, 161, Sloane-
street, S.W.·
July 211t, 1884.
In reply to your questions, I am glad to have it in my power to corroborate
my friend Mr. Holmes's statement to you, of his having communicated to me
his extraordinary premonitory dream, &I I considered it to be, and told him
80 at the time-the next morning I believe-many months previous to its
apparent fulfilment in a manner 10 remarkably circumstantial.
W. BINGlU.II.
In the next case the circumstance dreamt of in addition to the
death is of a different character. (P. 384.) The case seems to me to be
a very rem~rkable one, and none the less so from the somewhat
grotesque character of the dream, which WIUl communicated to us about
three months after it occurred. For clearness I will begin with the
account of the death taken from the York HM'ald.
Digitized by G~ogle
322 On the Evidence for Premonitions.
YORK HBBALD, Friday, July 28, 1882. "SCARBRO'. SAD D.ATH OF A
GENTLEMAN VISlTOR.-An accident of a .melancholy character, and which
unfortunately has been attended with fatal results, occurred on Wedneeday
evening to a London gentleman named Frederick Schweizer, who for the
past few days has been staying at the Grand Hotel. It appears that on the
afternoon of that day the deceased, along with a casual acquaintance named
Deverell, who is staying at the Castle Hotel, went for a ride on horaeback
along the beautiful Forge Valley ridea. When near Ayton the deceased was
somewhat in advance of his companion, and it is surinised that his steed
shied at a white gate ; anyhow he was thrown on to the road, and the horae
galloped away. His friend on getting up to him dismounted, and a passing
carriage was utilised to convey him to his hotel. This was at six o'clock, and
three hours subsequently the deceased expired, it issuppoeed from conClU88ion
of the brain."
The accident occurred on July 26th.
Mr. Schweizer's mother, Mrs. Schweizer, now of 6, Addison-road
North, wrote on October 28th, 1882 :--
I Bend you the particulars of the dream I had just eight days before it
was realised, though why I could not be told of the unfortunate accident 88
it occurred I can't understand, nor why Henry Irving's name should be
mentioned.-J. SCBWBIZEIL.
On the 18th of July I had the following dream or vision (I can't I&y
which) :-1 was walking on the edge of a high cllif, the open sea in front, dear
Fred and a stranger a little in advance, when Fred slipped suddenly down
the side of the cllif, and in doing so gazed with the most intense anguish
into my very soul. I shall t~r forget that look. I turned to the stranger
and said, "May I ask who you are and what is your name 1" He replied,
" My name is Henry Irvin." I said, "Do you mean Irving the actor V"
He said, "No, not exactly: but something after that style." I said, in reply•
.. Now that I look at you, you have the same agonised expression in your
face that I have BO often noticed in Irving's photographs in the shop
windows. " So I awoke in a miserable state of mind. It was between 5 and
6 a.m. The servants came down BOon after. The dream seemed to haunt
me ; I could think of nothing else. When I met my eldest BOn John, at
breakfast. I asked at once, where was Fred 1 (I must state here that Fred
was the travelling partner of three brothers, and then in the North of
England on a journey.) His brother, after hearing the dream, said, "Oh.
Fred is all right; he is in Manchester." He saw how miserable this dreazn
nmde me feel, and he promised at my request to "wire" to me when he got
to his counting-house in case there was no letter from Fred, who was in the
habit of writing to the firm daily. There was, however, a letter as UBUaI.
and when I received no telegram as arranged, I judged that dear Fred ___
all right. Still the dream was present to my mind, and I thought of it con-
tinually. I begged of his brother to tell him to come home. In a day or
two I heard he was at Leeds, and next day after that, John the eldest
brother said, " Fred says he is going to take a week's holiday at Scarborough•••
when I at once exclaimed, "I wish he were at home; do write to hUn
Digitized by Coogle
On the Ev~ lOT Premonitions. 323
to come back; he has had holidays enough this year. I ahall write to him
myself." John said, .. Oh, don't; let him enjoy himself." On this day,
before I got out of bed at the same hour, between 5 and 6 a.m., a penon
seemed to paIIII the aide of my bed, and said into my ear in an audible voice,
.. You are not done with trouble yet." I started up and awoke, and related
the matter at breakfast while talking of Fred to John, and said, .. I think it
was your father." He said, .. Oh, nODll8Dl18, that is like the dream you
bothered me about a few days ago." This was on the 23rd. On the 24th John
mentioned that he had a telegram from Fred to send on £10, that he was
enjoying himself immeDll8ly, that the weather was glorious. I again wished
he were at home, and John said, .. He will be here on Friday next." In the
morning on the 26th I went to the letter-box, and found a telegram for
John, which announced an accident to Fred. John, however, did not like to
tell me, and hurried off' to the office. I asked John the nature of the telegram,
but he said, .. Buinell." On arriving at his office, there was a telegram of a
aimilar kind from the hotel proprietor at Scarborough. Poor Fred was dead
at the time, as he only survived the accident three hours. Johnand I set off'
at once, and found all over, and next day it was propoeed that we should visit
the fatal spot. His companion in that unfortunate excursion accompanied u.
He sat opposite to me in the carriage, and when I looked at him I remembered
the dream of the 18th, and recogniaed the stranger who had the agonised
expreaaion, and asked him at once if his name were "Henry." He said,
.. Yea, my name is Henry," when I told the dream. He then said, .. The
mOlt extraordinary part is, I am connected with the Volunteers, and we have
private theatricala, and I recite, and am always on those occaaiODl introduced
81 Henry Irvin, jun."
Mrs. Schweizer says that an account written by her, and sub-
stantially the same as the above, .W88 signed by her son and by Mr.
Deverell
In answer to inquiries Mrs. Schweizer said (April, 1888): "My son
Frederick was not acquainted with Mr. Deverell at all, nor was Mr.
Deverell known directly or indirectly to me or to any member of my
family. . We knew nothing about his private theatricals." He
was an acquaintance of a friend of Mr. F..Schweizer's and was only
introduced to him by his friend on the afternoon of the accident, as a.
companion for the ride in which the friend could not join. Mr.
Deverell was drowned while bathing the following year. Mr. Gurney
had an interview with Mrs. Schweizer about this experience only a. day
or two before his death, and was favourably impreBBed with her as a
witness. The dream, he says, "certainly made a very powerful im-
pression on her, as she told one of her sons next morning to send her a
telegram if there was no letter from Fred at the office proving him to
be all right. He was away purely on business, and as he had already
had a holiday, shortly before, she was not in the least expecting him to
have another, and had not the least idea, therefore, of his visiting the
seaside. . Mrs. Schweizer did not see horses in her vision. When
Digitized by Coogle
3241 (}n, the Evidence lor Premonitiom.
abe recognised Deverell as the 'Henry Irving' of her vision (feeling
herself the absurdity of this detail), and told him of it, he was extremely
impressed-' The blood left his lips,' abe said."
There is one well-known dream of death, with detail of a certainly
unlikely kind, which will probably occur to every one in this connection;
I mean Mr. Williams' dream of Mr. Perceval's murder in 1812. This
dream was not recorded before its fulfilment, nor even immediately
after it, but we have a printed account dated 1832-20 years later-
purporting to be in Mr. Williams' own words, and signed by him. It
was sent to us by a great niece of Mr. Perceval's, who had received it
from a grandson of Mr. Williams) (P. 607.)
Sundhill, D,cembtJr, 1832.
SfYfI'M account of /J dr6lJm which occt.lll"'r,d to John Williaml, E/IfJ.,
cif ScO'f"1'itno ROUBe, in the County of CornWtJll, in the ywr 181~.
TtJlunjrom his own mouth, /Jnd ntJrrated by him tJt vcwi.otu timu to
8ewrtd cifhufriends.
Being desired to write out the particulars of a remarkable dream which I
had in the year 1812, before I do 80 I think it may be proper for me to aay
that at that time my attention was fully occupied with affairs of my own-
the 8uperintendence of 80me very extensive mine8 in Cornwall being
entrusted to me. Thus I had no leisure to pay any attention to political
matters, and hardly knew at that time who formed the Administration of the
country. It 11'&8, therefore, acarcely poaaible that my own interest in the
subject should have had any ahare in suggesting the circumstances which
presented themselves to my imagination. It was, in truth, a subject which
never occurred to my waking thoughts.
My dream was as follows ;-
About the aecond or third day of May, 1812, I dreamed that I was in the
lobby of the House of Commons (a place well known to me). A small man,
dressed in a blue coat and white waistcoat, entered, and immediately I 1&11'
a person whom I had observed on my first entrance, dressed in a anu1l'·
coloured coat with metal buttons, take a pistol from under his coat, and
present it at the little man above mentioned. The pistol was discharged.
and the ball entered under the left breast of the person at whom it 1I'I1II
directed. I saw the blood issue from the place where the ball had struck
him, his countenance instantly altered, and he fell to the ground. Upon
inquiry who the sufi'erer might be I was informed that he was the Chancellor,
I understood him to be Mr. Perceval, who was Chancellor of the Exchequer.
I further saw the murderer laid hold of by several of the gentlemen in the
room. Upon waking, I told the particulars above related to my wife; she
treated the matter lightly, and desired me to go to 8leep, saying it was only
1 The same account, with only verbaldilferenC8ll, is printed in a footnote at the end
of Walpole's life of Perceval (1874). Mr. Walpole saye that it is .. taken from aD
attested statement drawn up and aigned by Mr. Williama, in the preeence of the Rev.
Thomaa Fisher and Mr. Charles Prideaux Brune. It waa given by the latter of til...
gentlemen to the author of this memoir."
Digitized by Coogle
em the E~ for Pnmwnitiom. 325
a dream. I aoon fell aaleep again, and again the dream presented iteelf
with preciaely the l&Dle circumatancee. After waking a second. time, and
stating the matter again to my wife, Ihe only repeated her request that I
would compoae myaelf, and diamiII8 the aubject from my mind. Upon my
falling aaleep the third time, the l&Dle dream, without any alteration, was
repeated, and I awokeas on the fonner occaaiona ingreat agitation. So much
alarmed and impreued was I with the ci.rcumatancea above related that I
felt much doubt whether it was not my duty to take a journey to London,
and communicate upon the lubject with the party principally concerned.
Upon this point I conaulted with lOme friends whom I met on buain818 at the
Gudolphin mine on the following day. After having stated to them the particu-
lara of the dream itself and what were my own feelingB in relation to it, they
diaauaded me from my purpose, Baying I might expoae myaelf to contempt and
vexation, or be taken up as a fanatic. Upon this I Baid no more, but anxiously
watched the newlpapen every evening as the post arrived.
On the evening of the 13th of May (as far as I recollect) no account
of Mr. Perceval'l death was in the newlpaper, but my 8eCOnd IOn, returning
from Truro, came in a hurried manner into the room where I was Bitting and
exclaimed, "Oh! ather, your dream baa come true. Mr. Perceval baa been
shot in the lobby of the HoUle of Commona; there is an account come from
London to Truro written after the newlpapen were printed."
The fact was Mr. Perceval was ft"8'Binated on the evening of the 11th.
Some buain818 aoon after called me to London, and in one of the print-
shops I BaW a drawing for Bale, representing the place and the circumatancea
which attended Mr. Perceval'I death. I purchaaed it, and upon a careful
examination, I found it to coincide in all respects with the lOene which had
paued through my imagination in the dream. The coloun of the dre88e8,
the buttons of the aaaaaain'l coat, the white waistcoat of Mr. Perceval, the
spotof blood upon it, the countenancea and attitudes of the parties present
were exactly what I had dreamed.
The lingularity of the caae, when mentioned among my friends and
acquaintances, naturally made it the subject of converaation in London, and,
in COJlIIequence, my friend, the late Mr. Rennie, was requested by lome of
the Comrniaaionen of the Navy that they might be permitted to hear the
circumstances from myaelf. Two of them accordingly met me at Mr. Rennie'l
house, and to them I detailed at the time the p&rticulan, then fresh in
my memory, which fonn the lubject of the above ltatement.
I forbear to make any comment on the above narrative, further than to
declare IOlemnly that it is a faithful account of facta as they actually
occurred.
(Signed) JOHN WILLLUI8.
The cloae correspondence of the supposed dream scene with the
picture may well have been a trick of memory, but it is difficult to see
how Mr. Williama' memory can have deceived him as to his having
dreamt of a man being shot in the lobby of the HoUle of Commons,
before he heard of the murder, and a letter written by Mr. C. R. Fox to
Mr. Henaleigh Wedgwood in 1876 affords lOme corroboration. Mr. Fox
was the son of one of the friends to whom Mr. Williams told the dream
Digitized by Coogle
326 On the Evidence for Premonitions.
on the next day, and was, Mr. Wedgwood tells us, 14 at the time. He
says: CI I have now no certainty as to the day on which J. W. related
his dream, but it is indubitable tha.t he did ao before the .Chancellor's
death." Taking it all together, and a.llowing for the natural rounding
off of an oft-told tale, we cannot, I think, deny that it is a remari!:able
case.
I ha.ve had some hesitation about including the next.case (P. (90)
because it also is recorded 20 years after the event and it depends entirely
on the memory of one ma.n for details. It is at any rate interesting. It
was given to us by the narrator, Mr. O. F. Fleet, of 26, Grosvenor-road,
Gunnersbury, in April, 1888, when Mr. Gurney had an interview with
him. In a letter Mr. Fleet says he can swear to the authenticity of
the story, and alao that it baa been in no way CI cooked up" or em-
bellished.
In the year 1868 I was the third mate of the sailing ship Perna"
Bmpirt, of London, homeward bound from Adelaide to London with It. full
cargo of wood, &C.
We had lost two men who had deserted the ship and gone up to the Gold
Fields; hands were IIC8rca in that city, and we thought the ship would have to
make the passage home short of two men, but luckily, the day before we
meant to sau, a man came on board saying he was most anxious to ship and
get home. .
The captain was struck with his appearance, which was fine, reapectable,
and indicative of bravery; he also could show a V. G., very good, discharge
from his last ship, 80 the captain agreed to put him on our articles. The
man (who gave the name of Cleary) went ashore with the captain to the
shipping office, where he was put on the articles. being told to join the next
day at aix a. m.
He, however, failed to put in an appearance, 80 the captain aent me
ashore to look him up. After aearching in vain for a long time, I turned to
go on board, and when nearly reaching the ship, I found him walking about
in a most dejected manner and looking very miserable. I asked him why he
had not joined the ship, and I could see from his countenance that 80mething
waa troubling him.
By a little persuasion, however, I induced him to come on board. On the
way down to the ahip we chatted freely and pleasantly on different topics,
and after awhile his look of dejection entirely paaaed away and the man
seemed bimseU again.
Once, mention was made concerning the qualities of our ahip, the
Per6ian Empire, by Cleary asking me if she was staunch and a good sea
boat, at the same time adding in a peculiar tone of voice that he hoped she
would carry him safely home. I said ahe was everything that could be
expected, was only five years old, and on the" first" letter at Lloyd'. (A 1).
This aeemed to satisfy him, and as we had by this time arrived alongside the
ship, we jumped on board. The pilot then gave the order to .. unmoor
ship" and paaa the tow rope to the tugboat which was in waiting to take ua
down the river.
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence for Premonitiom. 327
Cleary went to his work cheerfully, we got down to the lightahip where
we cut oft'the tug, discharged our pilot and got away to sea, making a good
start, the weather being fine.
One night about a week after eai1ing we had a alight spell of "dirty
weather," for it blew a hard gale from the westward, with a high following
sea. I had the middle watch (12 to 4), and Cleary, who was in my watch, was
taking his turn at the wheel, and as I chanced to be standing near tho
compua at one time, he thus spoke to me :-
"Mr. Fleet."
"Well," said I;" what is it, Cleary'"
"Why, air, I would like to explain to you how it was I failed to join tho
ship on the morning I should have done 10."
"What was the reason '" I answered.
"Well, air, after I loft the captain, I wont to my lodgings to put my
things together and settle a few matters of businell, but was kept 10 late that
I had to tum in before finishing what I had in hand, and 10 had to leavo it
till the morning. Do you know, air "-here he lowered his voice and became
quite myaterio11&-" I had a dream that night and a very ugly and extra-
ordinary one it was too. Do you believe in dreams, sir,"
" Well," I answered, "I cannot say that I do, or do not. I haw known
lOme astounding ones cOlne true."
" Ab, sir, that's just what's troubling me," he said, and his face grew pale
and great beads of perspiration came on his forehead, "but I'll just tell you
what I dreamt, air, and then you'll see. On my way to my lodgings I could
think of nothing but the ship I had just joined, and which was going to take
me home. As was quite natural, I fell asleep, thinking of her, and at last
dreamt that the Penian Empire was oft' the 'pitch,' or exact vicinity, of
Cape Hom, South America, and that she, on Christmas morning, was in a
very heavy gale and high sea. Well, sir, I, with the rest of my watch, wero
ordered to secure a boat hanging in davita over the side. I got into the boat,
the rest of the watch remaining on deck, and in the middle of the work a
most fearful sea broke over us, washing overboard me and another hand, and
we were both drowned. I remember no more, air, and I woke but I calmot
get Chat dream out of my head."
I told him not to allow his mind to be troubled by such nODBense, and
tried my best to laugh him out of his fears, but he seemed 10 deeply impressed
with the vividneu of the dream that I utterly failed in my object.
He also told me that, during a cyclone which blew in Madras, in 1864, he
had Iwum oft' with a small line to a barque that was dragging her anchors and
fut driving ashore. By 10 doing he had been the mealll of saving nine handa
out of her by the aid of the life saving apparatus, for which act of
gallantry the Humane Society had awarded him their gold medal with a
piece of vellum giving an account of the occurrence. These, together with a
small bag of gold, were safely locked up in his chest down in the forecastle
and intended for lOme near relative.
Soon after this, the weather cleared up, but only for a short time, as we
fell in with another gale with violent IIlOW and hail-aqualla. One night
when not far from Cape Hom, it was my first watch (8 to 12), Mr.
Douglaa, the chief officer, being in charge of the deck. The rest of the watch,
Digitized by Coogle
328 On the Evidence fur Premonitions.
with two exceptions, those being the man at the wheel and the hand on the
" look out," were either asleep aft, or ,. standing by" for orders. AUlongat
the former was Cleary. I heard a loud cry and on my going down to the main
deck to ascertain the cause, I found Cleary looking very pale and evidently
much upset about something. I learnt that it was he who had called out, and on
my asking him the cause he told me he had had a repetition of the dream.
We had greatdifficulty in calming him as he had worked himBelf up into a
state of nervous excitement almost terrible to behold, but at last he got a
little quieter yet kept muttering, "I know it toill come true."
The next morning was Christmas Day. The wind was Itill blowing very
hard, and although it Wll.ll our "watch below" from 8 a.m. until 12 noon, yet
the chief officer and I had to remain on deck, as the IOOOnd officer 11'&1 too
unwell to leave hia berth. ThiB came rather hard upon ua as we had already
"Itood" 8 hours watch that night. However, at 8 bella (8 o'clock) Mr.
Douglas went below to the captain and reported the weather as atill being
bad and the barometer on the "fall."
After awhile he came on deck again, and told me that the captain had given
him orders to secure the boat hanging in the davits over the port quarter,
in the event of the aea increasing. When I heard thiB order I could not help
thinking of Cleary and hiB dream, at the same time feeling a presentiment
that lomething might happen ; however, duty iB duty and mUlt be performed
IOmetimes under moat trying circWll8tancea. The lea increased considerably
and began to brcak on board with great force, ao I went forward to tum the
handa out; they one and all obeyed me with the exception of Cleary, whohung
back. I called and II.IIked him why he did not come out with the rest of
the handa. On my receiving no reply I went right into the forecastle and
found him seated on his cheat, hiB face buried in hiB handa, to all
appearancel completely overcome.
I took a aeat beside him inquiring what wu the matter. At first he
would not answer, but after a little while he again referred to the dream,
saying, with a misersble tone, biB face atill buried in biB handa, "Oh, Bir, I
fear it iB about to come true now," givingthiB as hiB reason for not coming on
(leek with the other men. In answer to my question &I to whether he would go
to biB duty he replied he would not. Then I said at any rate he muatgo with
me to the captain and be put in the " Official Log" for "Refusal of duty,"
unleu he changed hiB mind. ThiB he said he had deternlined not to do, 80
we went to the captain who, after gently persuading him to do that which11'81
required of him like a man, but all to no purpose, produced the log·
book, and I was told to call Mr. Douglu to witneu and sign the entry.
After the captain had made the entry and had read it over to Cleary, who
had answered to its being correct, the chief officer took the pen to sign hia
name. Whilat doing so, Cleary, in an excited tone of voice said, "I will go to
my duty, for noto I know the other man relating to my dream," at the II&IIU!
time looking at Mr. Douglas, who looked at Cleary and then at me, as much
1\8 to say what doea it all mean 1 Whilat going on deck I briefly told the chief
officer of the dream. He laughed at the idea of hiB being the man meant in it.
I hada atrange foreboding, and it was with nocheerful heart that! went ondeck.
On our arrival there we found the rest of the handa waiting for ordera about
the boat. The duty that lay before UB was to turn her up clear of the ...
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence jO'1' Premonitions. 329'
with her keel outwards, and to do this we had to p&IIII a pair of gripes, or
broad rope bands, around her, then to hook ona tackle, made fast in the mizen
rigging, which, when hauled taut, would tum her up. Cleary jumped into
the boat to p&IIII the gripes around her, and Mr. Douglas got over the side for
the purpose of handing me the gripes from Cleary; also to overhaul the davit
falls, which have to be eased up a little. The chief officer was holding on with
one hand to an iron rail running around the quarter-deck, and was in the act
of pasaing the gripes to me, when the man at the wheel, by his bad steering,
"luffed" the ship into the wind, and on my looking to windward I saw a
very heavy sea coming along, which, for the moment, I thought would
capsize the ship and, as a warning to all hands, I sang out, "Look out men,
here it comes." We, who were able to do so, rushed to the mizenmast and
there held on for dear life, but unfortunately both Mr. Douglas and Cleary
were unable to do so in time. The sea struck the ship on the starboard side
with very great force, nearly throwing her on her beam ends, flooding the
decks and doing much damage, besides washing overboard both those two
men. The sea then caught the boat, turning her completely over, breaking
the stout iron davits as one would a match, and she, with Cleary clinging tu·
her, was swept away. Mr. Douglas held on to the iron rail, trying in vain
to get on board, but the rush of water was t()Q powerful for him, and with a cry
for help and a look of agony, which I shall never forget, the poor fellow
dropped overboard. We dared not let go our hold of the mast to try and save
him for fear of being washed overboard ourselves, so we had the sad spectacle
of seeing our poor shipmate drown without being able to save him. As for
Cleary, he W88 swept away at once, therefore there was no chance of saving
him. This W88 not the only disaster, for the man at the wheel had his right
shoulder dislocated by being jammed up under the grating, and the boatswain
had his left leg broken ill two places.
After the sea had somewhat gone off the quarter-deck, I ran up into the
mizentop to see what had become of the poor fellows who I feared had met
with a watery grave. Mr. Douglas was vainly trying to get on a hencoop,
which had been washed overboard from the quarter-deck, full of fowls. A
lifebuoy was also close to him, w:e having thrown them two. Cleary was taking
off his oilskin coat, keeping himself up by "treading water" meanwhile,
and then tried to reach Mr. Douglas, who could not swim, and was moreover
impeded by too much clothing, it being bitterly cold weather. Cleary must
have been a very powerful swimmer to have swum in such a sea, for he
managed to reach Mr. Douglas, and then try to help him toget on the hencoop.
Shortly after they met, a heavy sea came sweeping along which overwhelmed
t.hem, for after it had passed away I saw them no more. So, poor fellows,
they died together. It was with a sad heart that I went down on deck, as Mr.
Douglas and I had been great friends.
We had tried to get out another boat to save them, but in lowering her
into the water she, too, got smashed up by a sea, and we l08t our Christmas
dinner as a sea broke into the galley, washing out its contents and the cook
along the deck. But this trouble was as nothing compa.red with the 1088 of
the two men, which was all we could think of for some time; in fact we
had a very miserable Christmas, and one long to be remembered by me.
We arrived in London two months after the accident, and three montha
after leaving Adelaide.
igitized by Goog
330 0"" the Eviilerwe /0'1' Premo'nitions.
Standing on the pierhead, amongst the crowd of people watching the ship
come into dock, was Mr. Douglas's fiatu:~ anxiously expecting to _ him.
When the captain saw her he went ashore and, in the beat way he could,
broke the sad news to her. The poor girl was utterly prostrate with grief on
hearing what had befallen her lover. After ahe had recovered somewhat ahe
begged to be allowed to visit hia cabin. The captain handed her on board, and
then, after awhile, she went ashore again. Whilat the captain wasbreaking
the news to the poor girl, a wild and piercing.ahriek washeard. We were told
that it came from the girl to whom Cleary was to have been married on his
arrival home. The scene with her was truly diatreaaing. Learning that
Cleary had alao been drowned, she fainted, and was taken away by her
friends, perfectly helpleu and heart-broken.
In this case it will be noticed that, washing overboard, Cape Hom,
and Christmas Day are all likely enough ideas to occur to a dreamer
about to take that particular voyage. It is in their combination that
the strength of the coincidence lies, and the knowledge Cleary must.
have had of the dangers of Cape Horn, and of the prospect of their
reaching it about the time they did of course considerably reduces thP
improbability of such a combination of ideas. The identification of
Mr. Douglas as his fellow-sufferer must either have been an indepen.
dent impression at the moment, or an instance of the memory.illusion
already discussed, for it is impossible that he should have been for
a month in the company of the dreamer without being recognised, if he
had been vividly presented in the dream.
There are other death-dreams where the improbability of the com-
bination of circumstances dreamt of is hard to estimate. I cannot, for
instance, feel sure that a Consul at Salonica would be unlikely to
dream that he was murdered by a mob (P. 108); or a railway porter
that the station·master's legs were cut offby a train (P. 368); or, that
a man having an acquaintance known to be insane and under restraint,
and staying in the same house as his wife, would be unlikely to dream
of his cutting his throat with a dinner knife (P. 620). And on the
ground of too great probability I have also omitted a case (P. 68)
where the date of the death was dreamt a fortnight before it occurred,
that death, however, having been almost daily expected for two or
three months.
A dream of a death very shortly before its quite sudden occurrence
seems to have some claim to consideration as evidence for premonition.
We have two or three cases of this, of which the two following are the
strongest. The first (P. 317) is from Mr. James Cox, Admiralty
House,Queenstown, Ireland(Secretary Ret.to the Admiral Commanding
in Ireland).
December 18tA, 1883.
On Sunday, 11th September, 1881, while proceeding in D.H.S.
PlwBnix, from Newfoundland to Halifax, Nova Scotia, I dreamt that ODe of
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evideme for P1'emonitions, 331
my brother officers was lying dead in a house at Portsmouth. The dream
WBII 80 vivid that it quite disturbed my mind the following morning, and it
was with difficulty that I could shake off the uncomfortable feeling. At
breakfast I IAt opposite the officer, and looking round the table, I remarked:
"I dreamt last night that I lAW one of you fellows lying dead, but I won't
say which, as I don't want to spoil your appetite." In the course of the
afternoon, as we were stesming into Halifax harbour, the officer was sitting
at the stove in the wardroom joining in an animated convereation about the
speed of the ship, &c. A few minutes after we anchored, I went on shore,
and returned again on board at 10 p.m., and as I was about to go below to
my cabin, the officer of the watch motioned me to be silent, and approaching
me, said .. Poor S. is dead, he has just died suddenly"; and as I paased
ac:roII8 the meas-room J beheld the officer of my dream lying dead in his
cabin.
I am certain that two or three officers who were with me in that ship will
remember the circumstances.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Cox adds :-
I never before or since had any similar vivid dream of death. The case
of the chief engineer of the Phami:J; was 80 vivid and diatreased me 80
much that I am not likely ever to forget it.
The following is' from one of Mr, Cox's brother officers, at the
time of the dream and at the time of writing, an engineer on the
Superb:-
H.M.S. Superb, Malta.
o Janllary 5"", 1883 (a mistake for 1884).
My DEA.R Cox,-I think I can fully corroborate the story that you ask me
about, as it made a great impreaaion on my mind at the time, which has never
left it. In fact, I have frequently spoken of it to persons who have been
speaking of similar affairs, and now I will tell it as nearly as I can. On the
morning of the 12th September, 1881, you told me that you had dreamed the
night before that you lAW Mr. Sharp lying dead in the back room of a
printer's shop in Commercial-road, Landport (as far as I recollect it was
Trivers'), whither you had been called by lOme one for the purpose. You
said that he had fallen down dead very suddenly, and that when you told the
captain of the circumstances, he requested you to make all neceBll&ry
arrangements with regard to the funeral, &c. You then, in your dream,
found youraelf in an undertaker's shop, with lOme one else, engaged in
Buperintending the funeral matters Imd selecting things, &c.; and then, as
far as I recollect, your dream ended.
All this you told me, and at the lAme time remarked that we had better
not tell Mr. S., as he was rather a nervous man. We laughed over the
l\Ifair, and thought no more about it. That llAme evening the subject of your
dream actually died suddenly from heart disease, and I think on the
following day yourself and Hill went ashore, and selected lOme coffin
fittings, &c., and you told me when you came back how the whole thing
flashed through your mind again on finding youraelf in the undertaker's
shop_
Digitized by Coogle
:332 On the Evidence for Prernonitiom.
It was the strangest thing that ever came under my actual notice, and
am pleased to be able to corroborate it.-Yours sincerely,
M. lIA.WXlNS.
The next (P. 316) is from a lady who unfortunately does not
allow us to print her name, though it may be mentioned to anyone
wishing to know it.
My mother died very suddenly on December 14th, 1876, and in the
absence of my husband our vicar came to break it to me. I quickly
suspected his errand and then told him it was no shock to me, I had been 10
fully prepared by dreams. I had seen her funeral, and gone through all
the last scenes more than once, and so vividly that when 1 awoke it was 8
few moments before 1 could realise that she was still alive.
In answer to inquiries, our informant adds :-
If 1 had been anxious about my mother at the time, 1 should not have
thought my dreams worth mentioning. 1 was expecting to pay her a visit in
six weeks' time, and she was just as usual when the breaking of a blood
vessel on the brain ended her life in a few minutes. 1 do not remember ever
to have had what 1 call a "warning dream .. except on this occasion.
1 think for about 10 nights previous to her death, I had vi\'id repre·
sentations of her being ill, dying, being buried. 1 could IU her dead, IU her
funeral.
DREAMS OF ACCIDENTS.
Analogous to death-dreams are dreams of serious accidents. The
following (P. 310) is from Miss R. F. Curtis, 37, Springfield.rood, St.
John's Wood.
On a Saturday night in the autumn of 1882, I dreamt the following :-1 was
walking down a street in London when a lady in black passed me, who
turned round to look at me. I saw she was in tears. The lady hurried on;
I hurried after her to see who she was. When 1 came up to her 1 found her
lying in the road. A number of people had collected. I said, " Is she hurt 7"
Some said, "She is dead," some that she was not dead. 1 asked who it was
that was lying in the road. They said, "Mrs. C." There was some con-
fusion, and I awoke from my dream. As 1 had not heard of my friend, Mrs.
C., of Clapham Common, for so long, 1 made inquiries about her among DIy
friends, about a week after I had the dream, and was told Mrs. C. had fallen
over a kerb-stone that was very high, and had fallen into the road, much
hurt. She had the accident on the Sunday evening following the Saturday
night when 1 had the dream. The dream was remarkably clear, and I do not
often dream of my acquaintances. 1 related it to my sister Jessie, Ii short
time before the accident occurred to Mrs. C. My sister J e88ie signs her
name in proof that the &CCOunt above is correct, and that I related the dream
.to her before the event happened.
RoSAMOND F. CURTIS.
JF.S8IE KATE CURTIS.
Miss Curtis wrote on December 2nd, 1884:-
I can safely state that I had no cause of anxiety about Mrs. C. before I
dreamt of her.
On the Eviilence fur Premcmitiom. 333
The next case (P. 336) was sent to us, in 1885, by the Rev. E. N.
Pochin, of Barkby, Leicester. The dreamer, Miss E. N., is a parishioner
of his.
About the year 1876, I bad a dream in which I laW H. B., the wife of the
pariah clerk, slip down on the causeway opposite to the house of Mr. C. I
then saw her carried into Mr. C.'s hoUB8, when it appeared that she bad
auatained BOme injury from the fall. Nothing that I know of led up to this
dream. H. B. wsa in no wise more likely to slip down, certainly not when I
dreamt abe did, than anyone else in the pariah. I told this dream to several
dift'erent persons, and amongst others to the vicar, Rev. E. N. Pochin, in
the presence of several of my companionB, before the facta occurred, which
all happened after I had told my dream, exactly 8B I bad dreamt.
Then follows an account of another premonitory dream where the
future event was perhaps less unexpected; and of impressions that
certain visitors will call that day. The document proceeds :-
All this I declare to be faithful and true, in token of which I sign this
atatement, 8B alao my mother, who confirms it in its several particulars j and
the vicar alao in those parts where his name is mentioned, and my brother,
who knows these facts.
This document is signed by Mr. Pochin, ~iss E. N., and her
mother and brother.
The following two dreams occurred to Mr. J. W. Skilton, formerly
an engine driver in Ohio, and now living in Florida. They appeared
in 1886, in Mind in Nature, a periodical published in Chicago. He
saY8:-
Six times baa my locomotive been overtumed, while running at high
speed j and each time I have dreamt of it two nights before, each time in the
dream I saw the exact pmc--direction in which the engine W8B going, and
the side on which the engine tumed over.
(p. 491) [In 1853] I W8B firing a locomotive, a fine new passenger engine,
built for speed, and just from the shop. I thought myselflucky to be on such
a fine engine, and W8B proud of my position. One night, May 29th, 1853, I
dreamed that the train ran through a shallow cut, and came out on a high
atone bridge, over which the train passed, and then the engine tumed over
down the bank BOme 70ft., into the river. I mentioned my dream the next
morning to the family with whom I W8B living. The lady [now dead] told me
I was going to be killed, but I told her that in my dream, I bad 8BBurance that
I abould not be hurt. On the second moming after my dream, we were sent
over a part of the road with which I W8B not familiar, and presently came to
a ahallow cut, and I saw a number of men ahead on the track. The engineer
W8B near·sighted, and did not see them. I called to him to stop the engine
he tried to do BO, but the track W8B wet, and seeing that part of the track
ahead had been taken up, he jumped from the engine. I remained on it,
and tried to stop it. Before this could be done, we were on a stone bridge.
and I could not get oft". The engine left the track, and at the other end of
the bridge tumed over twice before it reached the bottom. and 1 with its
receiving but a small scratch 1&010, I do not know. I climbed the bank, and
Digitized by Coogle
334 On the Evidence fOT Premonitions.
looking back, saw just what I had seen in my dream. The bridge WIll 200ft.
long, with five stone arches, Mit. high, and the bank down which the engine
rolled, 70ft.
(P. 493) One more instance I very clearly remember, although it occurred
many yean ago, when I W88 engineer on a Western road. About 12 o'clock
Saturday [night September 6th], 1869, I arrived at the west end of my nID,
and retired. I dreamed I W88 coming west with my train, running at full
speed, trying to make up about one hour lost time. About half way between
two stations, 8 miles apart, on the smoothest track on the whole road,
the engine jumped the track, and turned over on the north side, and when it
stopped I was sitting on one of the driving wheels, with my legs between
the spokes; and a person in white came down from the sky, with a span of
white horses and a black carriage, picked me off the engine, placed me in the
carriage, and drove up toward the sky in a south-easterly direction. I
awoke, but the dream disf;reued me so that I slept very little more that
night. I did not mention it to anyone, but I could not get rid of the
impre88ion all through the Sabbath. Monday morning I took my train back
to the other end of my run, where I lived, arriving there at 1 p.m. At
9.40 p.m. my time came to go west again. The train W88 54 minutes late;
88 usual, the conductor said to me .. Make up all you can," equivalent to
saying: Run as fast 88 you dare. When about 40 miles out, running 88 fait
88 I ever ran,-something more than a mile a minute,-just at the point 1
had seen in my dream, the engine struck a horse, which threw the forward
truck off the track. It W88 one of the darkest nights I ever ssw. I
instinctively reversed the engine, but did not shut off steam. The engine
soon turned over on the north side of the track, and slid over 60ft. on the
level ground before it could be stopped, when I found myself sitting on the
driving wheel, with my feet between the spokes, my under jaw, and three riba
broken, and a deep gash on each side of my facel with 18 inches of the
throttle lever broken off in my hand, which I had not let go of all the time ;
but the person with the horses and carriage was not there. I had not
mentioned my dream to my wife-; they telegraphed her that I na
killed, but she would not believe it. I reached home the next day at 6 p.m.,
fully persuaded there was something in my dreams, but the mystery to me
was that it should come so true to the letter, to the point where I should
see the man with the horses, and they not appear.
The dream had so impressed me that at one time on Monday, I made up
my mind not to go out that night, but at the same moment came the
impruaion, more distinctly than if uttered by an audible voice, giving me the
888urance that I should not be killed; that He to Whom I always committed
my life when starting, and Who has never failed me in all times of need, and
Who had always brought me safely out of all accidents, would keep me thia
time, and not allow me to be seriously injured.
J. W. SJULl'ON,
Shell-road, near Jacksonville, Florida, U.S.A.
A third dream (P. 492) is given in Mind in Nature, but the collision
vividly dreamed of did not actually occur. It was just prevented
1 I have leen the BCaI'II on the under jaw, and on IIIICh aide of the faoe.-G. A. S.
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence for Premonitions. 335
by Mr. Skilton's own exertions and he thinks he might not have
prevented it had he not been doubly on the alert on account of the
dream.
Mr. G. A. Smith caned on Mr. Skilton when in· America in
November, 1886, and writes:-
I found Skilton yesterday, and he proves to be a very pleasant and
apparently moat reliable man. He has now retired from railway life, and has
an orange grove and beautiful residence on the St. John's River, two miles
from Jacksonville. There is no confirmation obtainable for his narratives, as
he only spoke of his impressions to his wife, who is dead ; and there does not
seem to be anyone who could give her second-hand testimony. Skilton is an
engineer and railway man every inch of him, and the very embodiment of
practical good sense. He has had other similar experiences, which will soon
appear in Mind in NatuTt, antl has outlined them to me, as well as going
through the enclosed [the article in Mind in Nature from which the
above has been taken]. I never met a man with a more accurate memory for
facts and dates; he is a walking railway guide and time-table and I frequently
verified his memory by reference to old time-bills in his posseasion. One has
no reason to doubt his narratives in any way; as he relates them in simple
and earnest language, the details never vary; and he prefers to have you
regard them as coincidences rather than as evidence of anything else. But
he himself regarda his experiences as an indication of some sort of protection.
He has put dates against each case, which is about all that can be done; and
he also was anxious to give the two references [to gentlemen in America]
which I have written on the margin. I regard him as an excellent witness,
whose testimony would be faithfully relied upon in any other matter.
(Signed) G. A. SMITH.
Mr. Smith tells us also that Mr. Skilton l\SSured him that he had
never had similar premonitions which were not realised.
The next case, a recent and very well authenticated one, was
contributed by the secretary of the Munich P'7ICiwlogiBcM G68tJUsChajt
to Sphina; for March, 1887 (P. 187). The following is a translation
of part of his article :-
. . Intercourse with a "sensitive" lady friend has given the writer
of these lines many opportunities of observing transcendental impulses, which
exhibited themselves in her case as "presentiments" and "truth-telling"
dreams. The following characteristic dream appears to be worth publication,
because it is so especially well authenticated. 1 Frau K. describes her
experience as follows :-
"In a night early in August 1886. I was witness, in a dream, to the outbreak
of a rapidly spreading con1lagration, which through its terrifying grandeur
had a paralysing effect on me. When I woke I remained so much under the
1 The editor.f 8pl&i~ states that the persons concerned have authorised him to
aDow to th_ who should exhibit a special interest in the occurrence. a peruII8l of ,h.
signed evideJlC8.
z
Digitized by Coogle
336 On the Evidence for Premonitions.
inftuence of what I had dreamed, that the reality of such a misfortune could
not have distressed me more. Strange to say, soon after waking the
thought pl'8l8ed upon me, that our securities, which the brewery-proprietor
B. kept in his fire-proof safe, were in danger. Although I cannot
remember having dreamed of any danger to the bonds, and though there wu
no external reason for connecting the papers with the fire, to my astonishment
despite all the reasons with which I endeavoured to talk myself out of
this apparently motiveless feeling, the ides increased to such a point, that
I at once told thoee around me about my dream. As though my mis-
giving was to be confirmed as correct, three days later I had exactly the same
dream, only with still greater distinctness. The unaccountable uneasin_
increased still more, and I had the sensation as though an internal voice called
to me, to put the bonds in safety. As the 1088 of them would have meant a
great misfortune for us, I tried (following the warning) to induce my
husband to put the papers in some other place.
.. As the majority of persons in his place would probably have done, he
looked upon my fears as groundle88 and could not attribute any importance
to a dream. At first he flatly refused to grant my request. But in the
meanwhile the inexplicable feeling of anxiety so thoroughly took poBBeIIion
of me, t.hat I made him continually more urgent representations. At last,
after about 10 days, he gave in, less on account of the dream than for the
aake of my comfort. From the moment that I knew that the bonds had
been placed in security, in the Munich Mortgage and Exchange Bank,
my equanimity was restored. Soon afterwards I went into the
country, to the Tyrol, and should hardly have thought more of this
occurrence, had I not suddenly, during the night of the 14th-15th of
September, again been the dreaming witness of a tremendous fire. But
instead of, as before. being frightened by the exciting scene, there came.
over me a feeling of relief as of being saved from a great calamity, by the
timely saving of the papers. On the morning of the 15th I made known my
dream experience to thoee around me. Sadly enough the warning was
fulfilled; for already, the following day, I received written information
that the brewery, in which was the above mentioned safe, had been reduced
to ashes by a destructive fire, which had broken out on the 14th of
September. As I afterwards heard, the building was burnt to the ground;
the fire-proof safe was exposed to flames and heat for 36 hours, so that the
proprietor's papers which were preserved in it were completely charred.
These dreams therefore (as has happened to me before 1) Baved me from a
great misfortune."
The correctness and precision of this communication is confirmed by the
signature of five witnesses. The husband of the lady testifies in his protocol
that he really had been led to the removal of the papers by her request, &I
above described; he was also a witn~s of the breaking out of the fire on the
14th of September. Three friends of the family, Frsu von 0., Herr von M.,
and Baron von E., state in their evidence that the above dream bad been
fully related to them during the first daye of August, and that they them·
1 Only a few month. before this event, Frau K. owed to II similar traD-deatal
warning the eaTing of her life, .bich .... threatened by &II escape of gaL
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence for Premonitiom. :137
selvea had taken part in the discullBion respecting the danger of the bonda.
Further, Herr von M. states that before the arrival of the letter on the
morning of the 15th of September, in the Tyrol, the dream of the previous
night (also given above) had been related to him. According to the
statement of the thus heavily visited proprietor of the brewery, the fire
broke out on the 14th of September, thus BOrne four weeks after the
delivering-up of the bonda, and raged three days ; the 36 hours of heat which
the safe had sustained had destroyed all the papers that were in it. More-
over, several newspapers lie before me which give an account of this great
con1lagration. . . .
This case offers several special points for consideration. In the first
place, the feeling of anxiety about the papers, which was the only thing to
connect the dream fire with the building afterwards burnt, did not, so
far as the percipient was aware, arise out of the dream itself. It may
have formed a part of the dream and have been forgotten· as such, but
it almost looks as if both dream and anxiety were the result of a
subconscious impression of danger to the papers from fire. Another
interesting point is the occurrence of the final dream simultaneously
with the fire, a coincidence which certainly adds great weight to the
reasons for regarding the whole set of experiences as supernormal.
This last dream was, if supernormal, clairvoyant or telepathic,-not of
course premonitory; and it seems possible that all three dreams
were of this character and not premonitory at all, for the danger of
fire may have existed all the time and not only when it actually
occurred. As this is, however, a conjecture, not a certainty (as would
be, e.g., the present existence of a letter whose arrival next day was
dreamt of), I have thought it best to include the case among
premonitions.
With it we may group the following, where also we seem to have
a supernormal perception of what may have been existing danger
(P. 322). It is from Mrs. Stella, of Chieri, Italy.
The following occurred to my mother, the most matter-of-fsct person and
not one to be easily impressed. About three years ago, I received a telegram
from her, from London, saying, "Take care of the plate; will write and
explain... I did not understand what she meant, but nevertheless, I took
extra precautions in shutting up the house at night, and awaited my mother's
letter. It appears she had dreamed that she hadbeen aro~sed from her sleep
bya noise, that she got up to see whatit was, and went out on to the stair-
case, and on looking down she saw ourdining-room here in Italy, and a man
was filling a bag with the plate, which another man was handing to him from
the sideboard. She heard one man say to the other, in Italian, "To-morrow
we will go to Genoa and spend Sunday" (that making it Friday that they
were robbing us). One of the men, looking up suddenly, saw my mother,
and began mounting the stairs with a long knife in his hand, and the fright
woke my mother. But the impression was BO vivid that she sent me R
telegram the next morning (Thursday), being quite sure that our house
Z 2
Digitized by Coogle
338 On the Evidence for Premonitions.
would be robbed on the Friday night. It was not, however; but the
following Wedneaday a band of robbers broke into the house nearest to us
and carried oft' everything, but they were taken the nen day, when they
confeBBed that they intended on the Friday to rob our house, and then go to
C'78noa. Among the things taken with them were a bag and a long knife
answering to the ones my mother described. My mother has grest common-
sense, and held until then all superstitious presentiments and belief in
dreams as really wrong, yet on this occasion her dream was so clear that she
not only acted in contradiction to all her previous opiniolUl, but even thought
it sufficiently urgent to nec~itate a telegram.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Stella adds :-
With regard to the plate robbery, the man's confession was made to one
of our peasants (since unfortunately desd). As they were being handcuffed,
our man was there, and, I believe, even aasisted to secure the thieveB, who
were personally known to him ; and one of them said to him, "H it had not
been for our bad luck, we should have cleaned out your padrone's place to-
morrow night and then got oft' to Genoa." This is the exact translation of
his words as well as I can remember, and of course our man came to tell us
of our escape. Under other circumstances I might not have attached any
great importance to an Italian peasant's story, but it quite confinned my
mother's dream.
The weakest point in the evidence here is the testimony to the
supposed fulfilment of the dream, the intention of the men to rob Mrs.
Stella's house, for it is at second-hand from a peasant. Still, it is of
course very probable that they did intend it, and they may quite well
have intended it at the time of the dream.
We have another case with some analogy to the two last, tbougb
less well evidenced, being remote in time and uncorroborated. (P.485.)
It is from Mrs. Hunter, Silverwood, Skelmorlie, N.B.
I lived in Ayr. My sister, who lived out of town, came to stsy a night
with me before leaving the locality, and sent a trunk to the railway station to
be left till called for. That night my sister and I slept together. I dreamt
of running up and down the streets of Ayr in distress, looking for a police-
man, and not one could I find. I awoke, and falling asleep again dreamt
exactly the same dream. I woke my sister and told her about it, adding
that I was afraid some trouble was brewing, but she just laughed at me.
Again falling asleep, the third time the dream repeated itself. Being now
rather alarmed, I got up, at 6 a.m., and asked my lister to go oft' with the
earliest train, 8 a.m., and leave me. She did so, and, on reaching the station,
the first thing she noticed was her trunk with the feet knocked oft', and
otherwise disfigured, and standing by it a woman dressed in her own shawl
and other wearables. My sister became greatly agitated, and the woman, on
seeing her thuB, ran away. And for more than an hour my lister rsn up and
down the streets seeking for a policeman, and not one could be found. She
afterwards came back to me and told her story. It was afterwards found that
this woman had claimed the trunk on the previous evening, taken it to her
lodgings, abstracted the valuables, and was trying to make oft' with the
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence JOT Premonitions. 339
earliest train. She waa apprehended, and having been previously convicted,
waa transported.
SAlLUI HUNTER.
Mr. Gurney remarks on this case:-
.Augwt 29th, 1884.
I have had a long interview with Mrs. Hunter, who is a sensible woman,
with no inclination to the marvello\l8. The caae waa more IItriking aa told
t7i1Hi 1IOCe. The sister waa angry and offended at Mrs. Hunter'lI insistence
that she should start by the early train. The event happened quite 30 years
ago. Mrs. H. does not know her sister's present addreaa.
Here the dream, it must be admitted, represented a future event-
the search for the policeman-but the theft which made that search
necessary had already occurred. There seems to have been here, as in
the German lady's dream of fire, a waking impression not apparently
derived from the dream. In this case it caused Mrs. Hunter rightly
to connect the idea of impending misfortune with her sister, and in
fact led to the partial averting of the mischief. It is difficult to say
how far, given an idea of theft, the idea of vainly looking for a police-
man was likely to occur spontaneously in a dream.
Returning to accident-dreams, we may group with them the follow-
ingdream of an a¥erted accident. It was recorded by Mrs. De Morgan.
wife of the late Professor De Morgan, in the SpiritualiBt newspaper
for October 11th, 1878, and corroborated by her daughter-in-law, at
our request, in 1883. (P. 60.)
I took my family, consisting of my daughter, my daughter-in-law, the
four young children of the latter, and a servant, into Doraetshire five weeks
ago. Four daYII before we left London, I awoke from a sleep, or doze, with
an image vividly depicted on my mind. I waa sitting on a bank reading.
My daughter-in-law started up suddenly and ran to a llpot grown over with
weeds, briars, and dank graaa. Then I saw her catch up one of the little
children, who waa running to the same spot. She looked at the place and
called out to me that there W88 a deep well there. I felt a sense of relief
that the child waa safe, but waa 80 impreaaed with the dream, or vision, that
I described it at once to her, and it W88 mentioned afterwards to others.
When we arrived at the railway station we were met by the landlord of
our lodgings, who W88 to drive UII in a waggonette to the village. On the
WIly I asked him if he had a well on his ground, aa we had little children
with UII. He replied that there W88 a well in the house, but it waa covered
and had a pump over it. Three or four days after our arrival, we were lIitting
reading on a green ridge in a field belonging to our landlord. The children
were playing a little way from UII and their mother W88 beside me. All at once
she started up and ran to a llpot at a little distance where rough coarse graaa
and weeds hid what waa directly behind. The youngest child, a baby of two
years old, waa running to this place, and aa he approached it hill mother
caught him up, turning round to me and exclaiming, 'Oh! here is a deep
well.' We then remembered my dream and our intended precautions.
Digitized by Coogle
340 On the E'lJidence for Pre'1lW'nitions.
But the dream WIUI really of no use (II a wanlit&g for we had quite fozgotWl
it, having been made easy by our landlord's UIIurance that all WBII safe.
Bedford Park.
I perfectly remember my mother-in-Jaw waking up and telling me that
she had just had a dream about a well hidden by a bramble bUllh and over-
grown with rank graaa,,in a field in which we were all together, and abe
cautioned me to be on my guard about it at Chideock, on account of the
children.
And all happened exactly all she baa here narrated it.
A. M. DB MOBOA!(.
The next three dreams are not of the accident itself, but of the
appearance of the sufferer as first seen by the dreamer afterwards.
(P. 354.)
Mrs. Donaldson, Devereux House, Daleham gardens, Fitzjohn's-
avenue, N.W., writes, I think, in 1883:-
On Sunday morning, the 29th September, 1878, I roUlled my husband by
speaking in my sleep in a moaning and distressed manner. I said, "Oh, B.,
what is the matter with your face 7" and then began to sob. My huab&nd
woke me and inquired the cause of my distress. I Baid, .. I II&W a"
(mentioningthe name of my nurse) "standing in the nursery with her back
turned to me, and when I spoke to her, and she half turned round, I II&W the
side of her face terribly cut and bruised." Hence my distressed inquiry as
to the cause of the injury.
That Sunday evening she did not appear as Ullual at family prayers, and
upon inquiring the reason of her absence, the cook replied, "B. baa met
with an accident, ma'am, and baa fallen out of the Metropolitan trsin." I
ruahed upstairs, and there, in precisely the same position as I had seen her in
my dream, stood B., with the aide of her face cut and bruisedas I hadseen it,
and without t.hinking of the coincidence at the moment, I asid, "Oh,
B., what is the matter with your face 7" and all I Baid the words the whole
dream flashed vividly across my memory.
AGNES E. DoNALDSON.
On the Sunday morning I heard my wife distinctly Bay in her eleep, "Oh,
B., what is the matter with your face?" and then I roUlled her. We thought
no more of this until after the accident in the following evening.-:-A. B.
DONALDSON.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Donaldson adds :-
Mrs. Donaldson ia not accustomed to have distressing dreams, and abe ia
by no means of a fanciful or morbid tum of mind.
No exact account of the dream was written at the time, but the fact was
noted in a journal. We have both the clearest remembrance of the dream
and its fultllment.
In the next case (P. 345) the evidence that the dream preceded the
accident is leas decisive. It is from Mrs Medwell, Fulbrook-roed.
Junction-road, N.
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence /OT Premonitiom. 341
Febnua"" 18M.
About 11 yean ago my husband waa a fireman on the Great Northern.
going out very early in the morning. I expected him home about 2 o'clock
in the day. A few hOIll"ll after he left me I had a dream. I fancied I I&W
DIy husband brought home with his head all over blood, and very much cut.
It 10 startled me that I could not keep in bed, but I got up and told my
landlady my dream, and told her I felt lure IOmething would happen to my
hnaband.
I w8l1ooking out of the window, when I I&W a man bring him home to
the gate. I waa quite ready for him, and he WBI surprised to see I knew all
about it. This is quite true.
MARY MBDWBLL.
Mr. Gurney applied to Mrs. Crellin, of 62, Hilldrop-crescent, N.,
who employs Mrs. Medwell, and through whom the account was
obtained, to discover the relation of time between the dream and the
accident. She has been informed that " the dream preceded the accident
by an hour or so." Mrs. Crellin has also ascertained from Mrs.
Matthews, of 59, Pratt-street, N.W., who was Mrs. Medwell'slandlady
at the time, that" Mrs. Medwell narrated her dream in the morning;
and Mrs. Matthews afterwards saw the husband led howe, with a
wound in his head, caused by a stone thrown on the railway by some
boys." Mrs. Medwell had another vivid dream about an accident to
her husband, but it seems to have occurred simultaneously with or
soon after the accident.
The third case of the kind is from Mr. Rowland Rowlands, of
Bryncethin, Bridgend, who has had a considerable number of impres-
sions and dreams corresponding with real facts (see, for some of his
experiences, Phantasms of the Living,Vo1. I., pp. 252, 291, and VQI.
II., p. 443), in two or three cases these real facts being in the future.
The one about to be related has the defect of being remote and
uncorroborated, but it was apparently acted on, which is of course
important as diminishing the danger of memory deception. (P. 81.)
About 25 or 30 yean ago, when I WBI living at Pontyeata, and before I
W81 manager at Pen-y-graig, my IOn waa at a school in Kidwelly, kept by a.
Mr. Nicholas. One morning, when I had come back to my houle from work,
I sat down in achair aa loon aa I got homll, and then, when just between
aleeping and waking, I saw my IOn standing before me with the blood
running out of his eye. It waa not a regular dream, and yet I waan't quite
awake.
I waa 10 lure that IOmething had happened to the boy that I went off at
once to Kidwelly, five or six miles off, and aaked Mr. Nicholas where the
boy waa and how he WBI. Mr. Nicholas said the boy waa all right, and he
bad seen him only a few minutee before. Whilat we ltill were talking, my boy
came in, bleeding from a cut just over the eye. He had gone to fetch his
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evidence for Prenwnitions.
cap, and a nail, which was sticking out from the wall, had struck him just
beneath the eyebrow. He still bears the scar of it.
DREAMS OF WINNERS OF RACES.
Passing on to a different kind of event dreamt of, it is perhaps
worth noting that we have five or six first-hand accounts of dreams
foretelling correctly the unexpected winners of races, (P. 404 [two cases],
405, 406, ~ and one of Lord Vivian's in the Spiritualist), but we have
to bear in mind that races are probably a very frequent subject of
dreams among persons interested in them, as all our informants were;
and if so it is of course to be expected that the dreams will sometimes
come right. In confirmation of this view we may note that when one
of our informants mentioned his dream to a friend, the friend remarked,
"Oh, I am always dreaming about horses, but they never come off."
Somewhat a.n.a.logous to racing dreams would be dreams about
examination lists, and these are probably also frequent, though we
have only one in our collection. This was recorded soon after
the event and is well attested, and it has some rather curious points
about it. (P. 101.) It is from Miss K. D. Ellis, Cranborne' Vicara"ae,
Windsor.
A tl.{111M. 21st, 1884.
I have lately been very anxious about the success of a young friend who
had been examined for a Sandhurst cadetship. The list of successful
candidates was due on the 15th August. About 10 days before that date I
dreamed that I saw the list, and that a boy of the same name as my friend
(.Tohnson) was two places from the bottDm. I mentioned this to my sisters
in the morning. About three days after I dreamed exactly the same thing,
with the addition that I noticed that the initials of the Chri3tian Mm~ were
not those of my friend. I did not see clearly what they were, but only that
they were wrong. I mentioned this second dream to my family, saying that
I now believed our friend would pass, although it was considered very unlikely
that he should do so. When the Sandhurst list appeared in the Timu of
August 15th, we looked first at the bottom of the list, and there, second from
the end, was the name of JohllSon, but it was that of a stranger, as I had
dreamed. Our friend (of the same name, but other initials) was 71st on the
same list.
KATHARINE DIANA ELLIS.
A newspaper extract was sent with the narrative, showing the list
of successful candidates for cadetships. The nalIle of Hugh W. B.
Johnson is 7lst, and that of Rupert M. R. Johnson 98th, the number
on the list being 100.
In answer to the question, Was this dream marked by exceptional
vividness, or was it unusual in any way 1 Miss Ellis says it was
unusually vivid, and repeated twice. She a.lso informs us that she
has had other seemingly veridical dreams.
On the Evidence for Premonitions. 343
Miss D. Ellis writes :-
I remember that my sister Katherine told me that she had dreamed that.
the name Johnson waa two from the bottom of the Sandhurst list, and that
the initials were wrong. I do not recollect for certain whether she told me
of each dream aa it happened, or if she told me of both dreams after both
were over.
In a later letter Miss D. Ellis adds :-
I it&Utwled to say in my accountof the Sandhurst dreams that I toa. told of
them before their fulfilment.
Miss B. Ellis writes :-
I have a ItTOOg impruaWn that my sister KatherlDe told me of each dream
88 it happened. I remember she mentioned the exact place on the list. I
do not Temembw hearing the initials were di1I'erent.
DBBAMS OP TRIVIAL INCIDENTS.
From this we may a.ppropriately pass to dreams of trivial incidents
fulfilled. The first (P. 462) is from Mrs. Mackenzie, Lamington
House, Tain, Ross-shire.
Jtlly 14th, 1884.
One morning laat spring, when at breakiaat, I suddenly remembered a
dream I had had the night before, and told it to my house party, who
numbered 10 individuals. I should l8y that it was rather a joke against me
that I believed in dreams and that very often my dreams came"true ; so when
I mentioned having had a curious dream, I was greeted with the usual joking
remarks. .. Well," said I, .. this is what I dreamt. I thought there were
!levers! people in our drawing-room, among others Mr. J., and I left the
room for a few minutes to see if supper was ready, and when I came back to
the drawing-room I found the carpet, which was a new one, all covered with
black spots. I was very angry, and when Mr. J. said it waa ink stains, I
retorted, ' Don't say so, I know it has been burnt, and I counted five patches.'
So ends the dreaDl." Well, we all went to church, it being Sunday, and on
our return Mr. J. caDle with us to luncheon, a thing he had never done
before, and SODle others joined our party. I went into the dining-room to
!lee if things were ready, and then going back into the drawing-room I
noticed a. spot near the door and asked who had been in with dirty feet;
being a new carpet I was particular. Mr. J., as in my dream, said it was
surely ink, and then pointed out some more spots, when I called out, .. Oh !
my dream I my new carpet! burnt!" As we afterwards discovered, the
housemaid had allowed the fire to go out, and had carried in live coal
from another room in a shovel, which she had tilted against the door and
spilt the coals on the carpet, bumingfire holes. Of COUTae next Sunday I
had several offers from my party to remain at home and watch the other
carpets, but I don't think that housemaid will burn any more carpets.
J. W. MACKENZIE.
Miss Mackenzie writes :-
I certify the above to be correct.-GBRTUDB AONBS MACKENZIE.
Digitized by Coogle
344 On the Evidence fOT Premonitiom.
MilIa Mackenzi&-her mother saya-" W88 present when I related the
dream, and W88 present also when the denouement oocurred."
Mr. Gurney remarks "bout this case :-" Mrs. and Miss Mac·
kenzie are known to me, and are intelligent and trustworthy witn....
I have had the whole account from them 'llivd voce, and have no doubt
that what is written above is accurate. Mrs. Mackenzie says that Mr.
J.'s coming to lunch was the merest chance, and that she could ha.ve had
no idea of itthe previous day."
I told this story to a lady a li~tle while ago, who remarked, "But
then the question is of what use was it'" meaning that if it was of DO
use it cannot have been a premonition. Now this consideration seems
to me irrelevant. I do not deny that the coincidence I have jut
related may have been purely accidental, with nothing supernormal
about it at all. but the fact that it was of no use does not make it more
probable that it was so. For we have no sufficient reason to suppose
that premonitions, if they exist, are a species of petty private miracles
intended to help us in conducting our affairs-temporal or spirit1l&i.
We must regard them as peculiar manifestations of unknown or
imperfectly known laws. I do not think, therefore, that the triviality
of a foreseen event detracts from the evidential value of a case,provided
the event is sufficiently definite and unlikely.
The next case (P. 13) is from the Rev. Walter Smith and Mn.
Smith, friends of Mr. Podmore's.
Harpenden, st. Alban'L
Maf'Ch 7th, 1883.
I write to tell you of a thing that has just happened, and which may
interest you. It is at leaat a curious coincidence. I think it W88 about a
month ago that my wife woke up in a fright and told me that she bad been
dreaming that she W88 in her old room at the rectory. and that the clothes
basket was mysteriously on fire. I perfectly remember the circumstances of
the dream 88 she told them to me, and we laughed at it, as the thing aeemed
80 wildly improbable.
However, this morning, not long after the nursery fire was lighted, the
baby's clothes basket W88 found in flames, and was burnt to cinders, the
floor and walls of the room being also a good deal burnt. The basket was ao
faraway from the fire, and it was 80 obvious that the fire had proceeded
from it, that the origin of the fire was at first almost 88 mysterious 88 in the
dream, and the thought of spontaneous combustion passed through my
mind. I have little doubt now that it really arose through some fragmenta
of burning paper being blown out from the grate and against the basket.
It is a curious case of a dream partially prophetic. You may easily set it
down to mere coincidence, but if many cases like it were multiplied, one
would ask whether it is po88ible that dreams can grow out of a reminiBcenee
of the future as well as of the past. It was a common-place dream enough,
and just such an one as in future times might grow out of the events of this
Digitized by Coogle
morning, and the strong shock which they gave ber nerves; but it was a.
curioua dream to arise quite spontaneously.
W ALTBR SJIITII.
Mrs. Smith gives the following fuller account of the dream.
About the end of January of this year I bad a very vivid dream. I
thought that I was in my room in myoid home. I saw all the furniture
moat vividly just as it used to be. Suddenly and mysteriously I saw 8ames
blUllt up from the clothes basket, which was standing, as usual, in a comer
quite away from the fireplace. 'I thought that two or three other people
were in the room, and that they tried to put out the flames, but I was so
frightened that I woke up before they bad done so. I think that I woke my
h1l8band in my fright, but I cannot be sure whether I told him the dream
then or in the moming. I remember we laughed at the improbability of the
thing, and of course thought no more of it. On the. 7th of March, as we
were going down to breakfast, one of the maida met us in a great state of
a1arm. The nursery bad been on fire, she said, and they bad only just
managed to put it out. We rushed to the room, and found that all one
comer had been on fire, and the beams of the wall and Hoor were still
smoking. How bad it happened 1 The nurse bad been down at breakfast,
taking the baby with her, but she was quite sure she bad left nothing
near the fire. The housemaid bad smelt smoke, and had rushed up to find
the clothu balkd,which stood quite away and behifld the fire, bad mysterio'Ullll
burst into 8ames and was blazing furiously. She called for help and all was
lOOn put out, but the origin of the fire seemed as mysterious as the fire in
the clothes basket of my dream. (We afterwards conjectured that, as it was
a day of high wind, some piece of paper must have been blown out of the
fire, and then by another blast blown agaimt the basket.)
When we had got over our first alarm, my dream fiaahed into my mind,
IUld my husband perfectly remembered my having told it to him.
M4lWAllBT SJIITII.
The dl'eam here is not exact, but the coincidence, so far as it goes,
is certainly very remarkable owing to the great improbability of the
event, and the difficulty of imasining what can have accidentally sug-
gested it to the dreamer's mind.
The young lady from whom we have the next co.ae does not wisb
her name to be printed. (P. 110.)
.tI.ugwt 3lat, 1884.
About a year ago, 88 nearly 88 I can remember, I bad a remarkably vivid
dream-that I went to Richmond Park (from London) with my sisters, and
that upon a seat I found a brooch, which I gave to the maid. I mentioned
this dream to the maid 88 she was doing my hair next moming, also to one of
my sisters. I did not at the time of the dream know that we were going to
Richmond on the following aftemoon.
However, we did so, and as I W88 walking towardsa bench with one of my
aiatera, we asw upon it a large oommon black brooch. My sister claimed it,
88 being the elder, but in a few days she gave it to me, and I gave it to the
maid.
Digitized by Coogle
346 On the Evidence for Premonitions.
•
I may add that I dream a great deal, and sometimes prophetically. For
instance, I dreamed one night last week that I received a letter from one of
my cousins. In the morning I told my sister, who went downstairs and
found on the table this particular letter, which I had no especial reason for
expecting on that morning.
Her sister says in corroboration :-
This is to certify that I remember that my sister told me that shedreamed
she had found a brooch in Richmond Park on the morning after the dream,
and before its fulfilment.
Any other prophetic dreams she has had are, we are informed, too
trifling to be written down.
The next two cases are from Miss Barr, of Apsley Town,
East Grinstead, who, like Mr. Rowlands, mentioned above, has
had frequent apparently veridical dreams, of which two or three
corresponded to distinctly future events. Some of her experiences are
quoted in Pltantatnn8 of the Lif7ing, Vol. I., pp. 94, 342; Vol. II., p. 431.
Miss Barr informs us that she is not as a rule in the habit of dreaming
much-or at least of remembering her dreams; and her sister, Mrs.
Jeddere-Fisher, says: "I think nearly all the dreams my sister told me
about came true, but I fancy there was perhaps one occasion, aDd
perhaps two, when they did not come true. Certainly this did not
happen often, or we should have lost faith altogether in her dreams,
and this we ha.ve never done."
The cases were written by Mr. Podmore from Miss Barr's dictation
in 1884, and this summer he went carefully through them with her
again.
(P. 73.) Some time in 1868, when in Poonah, I dreamed that I was in the
Government Gardens, which are ordinarily very deserted, and found them
crowded with tables laid out near the band-stand, at which children were
seated at tea. I was serving at one of these tables, when I heard a voice
behind me saying, •• May I be allowed to help you, ~ Barr 1" I turned
round and saw a perfect stranger, an officer, in a uniform which was alao
strange to me. In my dream I accepted his help, and later on was escorted
by him through the grounds, which then appeared to be brilliantly lighred
and very crowded, in search of my father and mother. . • . I told my
dream in the morning, and also described the man and his uniform to my
father and mother, and also to a cousin, who happened to be staying with ua.
About a month after this, on the eve of the Abyasinian campaign, the
cavalry regiment then quartered in Poonah was replaced by a Madru
regiment, and, riding out with my cousin, a few days after the change, we
met an officer, in a uniform which I recognised, even at a distance, as that of
my dream, and pointed him out to my cousin on his nearing us. I alao
recognised his face as that of the officer of my dream, and in the evening of
the same day pointed him out to my father near the G1wwpoorie band-atancL
Perhaps as much as three weeks after this a fAte was given in the
Digitized by Coogle
On the Evideme for Premonitwns. 347
Government Gardens, when tables were laid for a tea, to be given to the
soldiers' children, and I was requested by a friend to help her at one of the
tablea. Whilat so engaged, I heard a voice behind me saying, "Will you
allow me to help you, Miss Barr 7" and on turning round I recognised the
man whom I had seen in my dream. I was afterwards obliged to accept his
eacort in ~hing for my father and mother through the gardens, brilliantly
lighted by fireworks. . . . I have absolutely no interest in the hero of
my dream, though we knew him tolerably weD afterwards. The acquaintance
has not continued.
This is attested by Miss Barr's mother.
Extract from Miss Barr's diary, copied by Mr. Podmore, June 13th,
1888:-
I. September 25, [1868 apparently] Children's fete at the GovenlDlent
Gardens. I &BBisted at Mrs. K's tea-table. I had a curious dream some
time back about a gentleman I did not know. I met him at the fAte. He
is ..
Mr. Podmore adds :-
Miss Barr told me that she had never before heard of festivities in the
Government Gardens, and had no idea of the approach of the fAte. . . She
_rohed for the diary at my instigation during my interview with Mrs.
Fisher, and found it, locked. It was opened with a key of my own and the
above paBBBge discovered.
(p. 74.) Some time in the summer of 1875 or 1876, when living at Culter,
Aberdeenshire, I dreamt that we were invited out to dinner, and that I was
taken in to dinner by a stranger, whose face was strongly impre88ed upon my
recollection. Aiter dinner I was asked to sing, and was aware of the fact
that, whilst I was singing, the man was leaning against a prie-dieu chair
behind me; and that when I had finished singing he said, "Thank you, that is
very pretty; but do you happen to know a song called I Douglas, Douglas' 7..
There my dream ended. I told it in the morning to my sisters. The next day's
poat brought the invitation to dinner, and when we arrived at the house I
recognised the man; everything took place exactly as in my dream. I did
not feel then, and have never felt since the slightest interest in the man,
whom I have only met three times in my life.
Mrs. J eddere-Fisher, says :-
My sister told me befon we went to the dinner party.
Mr. Podmore, after seeing Miss Barr in J unp, 1888, says :-
MiBB Barr told me that she knew the song .. Douglas, Douglas," and
could sing it ; but was not in the habit of doing so. She is positive that she
mentioned the name of the song in telling the dream to her sister.
And Mrs. Jeddere-Fisher adcbl:-
I think, as far as I can remember, my sister told me the man would ask
her to sing "Douglas, Douglas," but I have heard the story so often since
that I may be incorrect.
The next case (P. 30) is trivial enough, but differs'from those 80
Digitized by Coogle
On the E'I.Jicleme for Premonitiom.
far quoted in foreshadowing a. more prolonged series of trifling events.
It is from Mr. R. Castle, of 9, Canterbury-road, Oxford, known to Mr.
Podmore. Mr. Castle also repeatedly experienced impressions about
visits from his brother, which a.re described in PhantaBm8 ofth IAring,
Vol. I., p. 253.
From Mr. R. Castle, 9, Canterbury-road, Oxford.
May 27th, 1883.
The dream in question occurred about 20 years ago, at a time of the year
when the days were very short, and the circumstances, aa briefly u I can
..tate them, were aa follows :-
I had made an appointment to go to London by the fint train, which left
fuford at 7.15 o'clock in the morning, to meet a gentleman I was then
intimately &88ociated with in our profeuional work, and on a business inatter
of 80me importance to us ; and being very anxious not to miBS my appoint-
ment, I retired to bed the night before with a strong impreuion on my mind
-of the neceBBity of not being late in the moming.
It is usual with me in such cases to wake at, or very near the time when
it is necessary I should get up, even if the hour is quite an unusual one.
On this occasion I wished to wake about5.30 o'clock in order to give myaelf
time to dre8B and have breakfast and get to the station, more than a mile
-distant from my house, in time for the train.
I actually woke, and struck a light and looked at my watch, about '-:.I
o'clock, and this being an hour or 80 before it waa time for me to get up I
-dropped off to sleep again, and it was in the interval between this and 5.:.1
o'clock, when I did get up, that the dream in question, which waa an excep-
tionally clear and vivid one, took place. It appeared to me that I woke, &lid
got up, and dreued myself by candle light, in the ordinary way when
leaving home by an early train in the winter, but that my brushes and lOme
other toilet articles had been moved since the morning before, and had not
been put back in their usual places, and I had to look for them and found
them in different positions, which I noticed more particularly aa not being
their usual places. I appeared then to go downatairs and have my break·
faat in the usual way, and go off to the railway station, walking there from
my house; but I seemed to be able to look about the district, and see all
that waa going on in a curious manner. much aa I could have done if I had
been looking from a balloon, or very high tower, 80 aa to have a IOnof
bird's-eye view of the country all round, and see other roads and places,
which from the road I waa actually walking upon would not ordinarily Mve
been visible ; but, aa is often the case with one in dreams, this abnormal
state seemed to be perfectly natural, and did not strike me aa being peculiar
in any way.
On arriving at the railway station, I dreamed that I quite unexpectedly
rpet a Mr. H., the senior partner in a well-known firm of photognphen,
carrying on business in several different town&. I had formerly kn01nl Mr.
H. and his partner, Mr. S., very well indeed, but aa they had oeaaed tu
reside personally in Oxford, and I had not happened to meet Mr. H. for some
four or five years, and had not seen his partner, who left Oxford before him,
for seven or eight yean, they had paased quite out of my mind, and nothing bad
Digitized by Coogle
0"" the Evidence for Premonitions. 349
occurred, even in the most remote manner, to bring them to my recollection.
I thought that I began talking to Mr. H., and that upon one of the roads
leading to the station, at a considerable distance away, I could see his partner,
Mr. S., walking to the station, with the square box-like top of a photo-
graphic apparatU8, neatly wrapped up in a green baize covering, and carried
under his left arm.
I seemed alao to be quite aware of the other ordinary incidents of the
journey, and that I got to London, and met the gentleman with whom I had
the appointment, who, 80mewhat to my surprise, instead of referring to the
business on which we met, began, rather more earnestly than usual, to tell me
of something of an entirely different character, which had occurred to him
since we had last parted, and of which I had previously known nothing. At this
point I woke up rather in a flurry, thinking I had overslept myself, but found,
on looking at my watch, that it was only jU8t past 5.30 o'clock. I proceeded
to dress at once, and the first thing which occurred to me as peculiar was to
find that my brushes and other things on the toilet-table had been moved out
of their ordinary positions, and placed as I had seen them in my uream, and
that I WM over again going exactly through all the same movements in dress-
ing which I had dreamed of before. I could not help laughing to myself at the
coincidence, and my wife, who was in the room, asked me what it was that
amused me, upon which I told her that I was dressing for the second time
that morning, and related to her my dream, saying that in it I had been to the
station, and met there Mr. H. and Mr. S., &c., as above recorded, upon
which she rerparked, "I wonder what can have made you think or them, I
have not seen or thought of them for years." I then had my breakfast just
in the usual mallller, and walked to the railway station, when, to my great
surprise, there, standing on the platform, was Mr. B., just as I had seen him
in my dream. I went up to him at once, and after the ordinary greeting,
proceeded in a laughing mallller to say that I had seen him once before, that
118me morning, and related to him my dream, asking him after Mr. S., and
aaying that he ought properly to be on his way to the station, and that we
should 800n see him, carrying part of a photographic apparatus, neatly
wrapped up in a green baize cover, under his left arm. Mr. H. seemed very
much astonished at this, and asked me how I knew that Mr. S. had been in
Oxford that night. I said, of course that I did not know it, upon which he
replied, ••Well, this is certainly very curious; he is here, and I expect him to
come and meet me, to go by this very train." We then walked along the
platform together, and upon getting nearly to the end of it, at a point where
we could see some distance along the road leading to the station, we both
stopped suddenly, for there in the distance was Mr. S., coming to the station,
andjust turning a corner of the road, with the square box-like parcel neatly
wrapped in green baize, and carried under his left ami, which proved to be
the phoWgrfphic apparatus, just as I had seell it in my dream, and as I had
described it to both my wife and Mr. H. The latter seemed quite startled
and alarmed, and 'said there was 80mething supernatural about it, and that
most people would say 80mething extraordinary was going to happen, and
that he had a great mind not to go by that train.
I pointed out, however, to him, that if there was anything in the dream,
the train ought to get to its journey's end safely enough, becaU8e I had to meet
igitized by Goog
350 On the Evidence fo1' Prerrwnitions.
my friend in London over again, and hear from him 80mething I had not eI-
pected, which seemed to allay Mr. H. 's fears; but the circumstance _med
to make a great imprcBBioll on him, and he 81\id he thought that very few
people would care to go by the train after such an unusual occurrence.
We performed the journey 81\fely, and I met my friend 1\8 arranged, who,
curiously enough, began at once, just 1\8 I had dreamed, to tell me of some
unexpected occurrences which had taken place with him after we last parted,
and which had no reference to the object of our present meeting.
The circumstance WI\8 altogether 80 strange that it naturully made a great
impr088ion on my mind, and I at once told my friend of the dream, and all
that had happened since.
I may add that this gentleman had fornlerly studied medicine, and
qualified himself to practise 1\8 a surgeon, but had not done 80, and I asked
him if he could po88ibly give me any explanation of so strange an occurrence.
He replied that he thought he could, and that he well remembered attending
some lectures on subjects of the kind, when he WI\8 a medical student,
which greatly interested him. Medical men, he thought, would tell me at
once that it WI\8 a case, by no meaIlB rare, of double cOIlBCiousneBB, in which
all that is happening to a person appears to him or her to have occurred
before, but hl\B not really done 80, the cause not being quite understood, but
supposed to arise probably from 8Omemoreor1088 independent action of the two
lobes of the brain, acting separately from each other; but however that
might be and however real the circumstanceslllightappear to myself,l\Bamatter
of fact, he supposed the dream did not occur at all, but only seemed to me to
have done 80, at the time when the real events took place.
This, I\B I pointed out to him, might have been a very good explanation.
but for the fact that while dreBBing I had told the dream to my wife, and
al80 had told to Mr. H. the circumstances with reference to Mr. S., before
they took place.
This, my friend admitted, made a difficulty, and he &&ked me to let hiD!
know what my wife remembered of the matter, which I afterwards told him.
I al80 WI\B anxious to ascertain this, and, on reaching home, I &&ked her at
once if she remembered any conver8Stion we had while I WI\8 dressing in the
morning before I left home, and she replied at once, "What, about the
strange dream you had I\B to getting up and drOBBing yourself, and going to
the railway station, and your having met Mr. H. and Mr. S., before you
really got out of bed 1 I remember that quite well." And she then repeated
what I had told her, and WI\B very much surprised to learn what had after-
wards occurred.
The friend to whom I have above referred, upon learning this, said,
" Well, I must give it up ; the theory I gave will not do in this case, and I
am quite unable to offer any explanation."
This is simply a statement of the dream and of the occurrences just III
they took place. The extreme vividne8B of the dream made 1\ great im-
pr088ion on me at the time. I related it then to a good many friends, and
have often done 80 frum time to time since, and this hl\B caused me to keep
it fresh in my memory, but I can suggest no theory to account for it, nor
have I ever met anyone, to whom I have related it, who could.
The whole matter, I\B you will notice, 80 far I\B the incidents themselv.
On the Evidence JOT Premcmitiom. 351
are concerned, waa entirely common-place; and, 10 far aa I know, nothing
whatever of a apecial nature baa occurred in connection with it to confirm
Mr. H.'a fean. R. C.
From Mrs. Castle.
I read the account that Mr. Caatle lent to the Society for Psychical
&search, and I fully corroborate it. I distinctly remember my husband
relating to me his dream, aa let forth in the account he baa written, whilst he
WIllI dressing himaelf.-ELuwlBTB CASTLB.
SYMBOLIO DRKAMS.
The not inconsiderable class of symbolic dreams remains to be
discussed. Two kinds of dreams may be called symbolic: firstly, those
where the dream is unlike the real fact but yet has in it an underlying
idea which suggests the fact. Mrs. Schweizer's dream quoted above is a
case in point. Such dreams may vary to any extent in the degree of
their correspondence with the supposed fulfilment, and in some cases
might perhaps be more properly called grotesque or distorted dreams
rather than symbolic ones. In the other kind of symbolic dreams the
symbol has no resemblance to the fact supposed to be indicated. The
interpretation is, so to speak, purely conventional. They resemble the
symbolic visual and auditory cases already considered. There is no
difficulty in supposing that the mind might clothe a premonitory (or
telepathic) idea. in a symbolic form once the "convention" is started, and
this might be doue either by tradition, or by the first coincidence of
the dream and event in the dreamer's experience, the same dream
afterwards recurring in apparent connection with similar events.
Evidentially it makes no di1ference whether the dream that conveys the
idea of the future event is symbolic or not, provided the idea. is quite
definitely conveyed before the event occurs. But as the event supposed
to be foretold is usually a simple and not uncommon one,-e.g., the
death (without detail) of some relative unspecified,-great care must be
taken in estimating the evidence, to ascertain that the dream net1e9'
occurs except closely enough to the event in time to make it improbable
that the event would happen within that time by chance. None of the
recurring symbolic dreams which we have are evidentially thoroughly
aa.tisfactory in this way, and the following specimen is selected as an
illustration, more for its brevity than for any other reason.
It is from a former Associate of the S.P.R., who does not wish her
nameto be given. (P. 92.)
March, 1884.
Several times in my life, before the death of a near relative, I have
dreamed the lISUle dream, that I am riding a white or grey pony through
mud and muddy water.
The bridle of the pony is held by a dead man, either by my dear father,
who died in my infancy, or by a young friend, Mr. A., who died a few years
since, and with whom I waa much when we were children.
2 A
Digitized by Coogle
352 On the E'IJidence for PTemonitions.
(a.)
The tint occaaion I eapecially noted this dream was in July, 1875, when
it was followed by the death of an uncle I loved very much. We bad been
expecting his death for lOme months.
(b.)
The next was in September, 1875. We bad an unmarried sister of my
mother's then on a visit to us, my aunt. I mentioned the dream to her.
. She said she bad heard of such dreams before, and that in her experience
they foretold the death of a relation. About the day after she hemelf died,
all in a moment, of heart complaint.
(c.)
In November, 1879, I again bad the dream; it was followed by the death
of my only child.
(d.)
In March, 1880, I again dreamed the same dream; it was not followed by
anyone's death, but my mother was struck down by paralysis, and baa
remained an invalid ever since.
The following are questions addressed to our informant and
her answers :-
1. Have you had the dream on any other occaaion besides the four
mentioned 1
I do not remember distinctly, but I believe I bad, before 1875.
2. Can you give, in each case, the interval between the dream and the
occurrence of the death which it preceded 7
Two or three days.
3. Have any near relations of yours died since July, 1875, whose destha
have not been heralded to you by this dream 1
I have lost no other relation except these since July, 1875.
4. Did you make any note of these dreams in a diary, or elsewhere,
before their fulfilment 1
No, I attached 80 little importance to them.
5. Did you mention them on any occaaion before their fulfilment to any
person now living from whom we could obtain corroboration of the facts 1
I mentioned the dream I bad before my child's death in November, 18'19,
to my nurse, Mrs. K., before he died, and again the dream I bad at the time
my mother was struck clown by paralysis, in March, 1880, to the ume
person, saying to her that I was sure that my mother would die. Mrs. K.
baa married again, and I have not seen or heard of her for many montha
past. I do not know where she is.
We have five or six cases of recurring symbolic dreams besides this
one. One lady dreamS of a baby in a bath before deaths (P. 23);
another tells us that in her case dreams of weddings portend deaths
(P. 609) ; another lady dreams in the same way of thunderstorms
(P. 627) ; another used to have singularly disagreeable dreams of the
presence of an offensive parasite (P. 386); in another case wavel of
water is the symbol (P. 107). In fact the symbol may be anything;
Digitized by Coogle
353
but in all the cases hitherto sent to us, either the record; or the
constancy of the time-relation between dream and event, appears to
me to be defective. .
CONCLUSION.
This concludes my review.o( the evidence for premonitions. I think
that no one will deny that some at least of the dreams are, as reported,
if not premonitory, at least very remarkable coincidences, and if a
aufticient number of such dreams could be observed and recorded before
fulfilment, the most sceptical would admit that some explanation, other
than chance, of the correspondence between dream and fact was
required.
But when we consider the weakness of human memories, and
the extent to which the evidence depends on unrecorded details;
when we reflect on the sources of error above noticed in dream-
evidence, and on the di1liculty of tracing the origin of dream ideas in
many dreams which no one would suppose to be supemormally prompted
(in other words, the very odd things we do dream), and observe
how many so-called premonitions occur in dreams j and when especially
we consider the small amount of apparently good evidence for premoni-
tions compared with that for telepathy j-we cannot, I think. demand
that the possibility of supernormal prevision should be accepted even
as a "working hypothesis" by the scientific world. as I myself consider
that telepathy ought to be accepted. Still there is enough evidence to
make us think about it; and one advantage of having a society like
ours is to bring home to people the importance of observing and
recording at once facts bearing on such subjects, and to supply a
centre where such records can be kept.
It may, however. be said by a reader disinclined to suspense of
judgment, "what can be the use of collecting more cases' If these do
not lead you to & conclusion why should any more of the same kind
produce the effect t Will you not always go on publishing striking
narratives to gratify marvel-loving readers, and then stating that they
are inconclusive to appease the scientific world t"
I should admit that there was much force in this objection, if the .
Dew cases were to be evidentially like the old ones. But my point is
that an effort should be made to raise them-if they are really trust-
worthy-to a higher evidential level If, in all the cases here recorded
the evidence had been made as complete as it might conceivably have
been made-for instance. by the apparitions and dreams being care-
fully recorded before the fulfilment-my conclusion with regard to
them might have been different. It may be said that people cannot
be expected to write down gravely that they have dreamt of five spots
burnt in the carpet, on the chance that • careless housemaid may
fulfil the prevision. I entirely agree, and so far as what I may call
2.6.2
Digitized by Coogle
354 On the E'IJ'i,detnce /0'1' Premonitiom.
sporadic premonitions are concerned, I could not expect or desire
more than tha.t special care should be taken to record at the time
dreams or other experiences regarded as premonitory which produce
a serious and strong impression.
But our cases are not all of the sporadic kind, so far, at least, as
our information goes. It is clear from our evidence that many people,
rightly or wrongly, believe themselves to have tolerably frequent
premonitions. Here perhaps lies our best hope of obtaining certainty,
one way or another, on this at present perplexing question. These
persons have it in their power to make a quasi-experimental investiga-
tion of the subject. If they would make a point of recording before
fulfilment all dreams or other experiences which appear to them to be
premonitory, recording conscientiously their fulfilment (or non-fulfil-
ment) and the interval elapsing before it, their records would, in a
few years, go far towards settling the question whether genuine
premonitions exist or no.
NOTE.
There ia, of courae, no aharp line between the best cases evidentially and
others, and the judgment of c:li1ferent people aa to which caaea should
be placed in the first class are sure to differ to some extent. I propoee at
some future time to put together for the Journal some of thOle cue.
about which I have hesitated whether to include them in thia paper
or not-finally deciding against them; and it would, I think, be of
real service to the investigation if before then other members of the
Society would study the evidence-alm08t all of which baa been prinUld
on slips or cycloatyled, and can be seen at the Society's rooma-.nd let
me know of any cases which they think ought not to have been omitted,
or of any other points in which they diaagree with me.
Digitized by Coogle
Expe,-iments in Thought-Transference. 355
IV.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT TRANSFERENCE.
lhiflg a Supplement wthe Paper on "MUICk Reading and Thought Tram.
jert/llU," by Herr Max DUIOir, in Proceeding3, Vol. IV.
HeiT Dessoir has sent us the originals of the three drawings and
reproductions below, with the notes made on the same evening as the
experiments-namely, July 16th, 1886. They had been laid aside and
forgotten, and have only lately been found again.
Herr Dessoir would not, he says, attach scientific importance to three
experiments in thought-transference alone, but these should be regarded
as an addition to the experiments made not long before with the same
lady, Baroness von Goeler.Ravensburg, and described at the end of
his paper in Proceeding" Vol. IV., p. 124.
Unfortunately the delicate health of the percipient has prevented
any continuance of the experiments, but Herr Des80ir hopes it may be
possible to make a fresh attempt before long.
I.
ORIO. BKP.
<L <1
356 Erq>e'f"iments in Thoo,ght-Tmmlerence.
II.
OBIG.
I ]
BBP.
I ]
III.
OBIG. BBP.
Herr Dessoir writes :-
In more complete explanation I may add the following. [A
diagram which we have not printed] shows the position of the experi-
menters. I sat at one table; Ii metres from me sat Frau von GoeIer-
Ravensburg at a second table, and at this stood also at the place
indicated Herr Dr. von GooIer. The remarks attached to this diagram
described the modus operandi: "Herr Baron made the drawings in the
next room, or behind his wife's back but in the same room, and gave
them to M.D to look at." 1
As regards I. the percipient said : "At other times I see it dark on
light: this time light on dark."
1 The aentencell in inverted commas are tranalatiollJl of the notes written at; the
aide of the drawings at the time of the experiments.
Digitized by Coogle
In II. the proceedings were as follows: •• Firat Frau Baronin drew
the two long parallel linea (-), and said: •I see two. long
horizontal linea, but there is something else there.' Thereupon M.D.
concentrated his will chiefly on the left-hand croaa line ( I ), which was
then drawn, the peroipient remarking, •Now I see a line to the left' ;
and then similarly with the right-hand line."
The note attached to III. runs: .. Frau Baronin added emphatically,
that, •it was only by mistake that the C1"088 stroke was crooked, and
that abe saw the cross thicker.'''
I must observe that on that evening and in fact during the whole
time till now, no further experiments have been made in the
transference of diagrams. On that evening, however, a few experiments
were made with numbers, the notes of which cannot be found.
21st July, 1888. (Signed) M. D.
Baron Dr. von Goeler-RaTensburg certifies the correctness of the
above. The following is a translation of what he says.
"I confirm the correctness of the accompanying drawings and
notes, and consent to their publication."
(Signed) Dr. Freiherr Goeler von Ravensburg.
Berlin, 19th June, 1888.
Digitized by Coogle
