{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sara_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Sara V NDE 5258","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sara V NDE 5258  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sara V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2752 Sara V NDE 5258  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't remember much from when I went into the operating room. There were two nurses and a doctor, who said he was going to put me to sleep. Then I remember hovering up in the corner of the room. I could see out the window, and it was raining. I could see my body on the table down where the two nurses and the doctor were, and I thought to myself, 'This is very odd!' I felt like I wanted to float out of the room. When I tried, I realized there were three entities behind me that would not let me. These entities were entirely black, and had a human shape. They spoke to me, but words did not come out of their mouths. Instead, we communicated through our minds. They told me I could not leave the room, and that they were there for my safety. Then I woke up in bed in my hospital room, in a lot of pain and feeling very sick.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sept. 13. 1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had been very ill for a week before my mother took me to a doctor. As soon as he examined me, I was admitted directly to the hospital. I had a ruptured appendix, and I was taken to surgery immediately. The event happened in the operating room.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time. I knew before they took me into the operating room that it was raining. When I found myself way up in the corner of the room, I looked out the very high-up windows, and I could see that it was still raining.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt like I was looking at my body down the small end of a cone which I was on the inside of. My vision was very clear. The entities were solid black. I had the feeling that they did not want to reveal their identities to me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything that was spoken came through to my mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, and a feeling of wellbeing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not participate in fundamentalist religions now. However, I have a very great awareness of God, and nature.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I have no preferred religion

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do not participate in fundamentalist religions now. However, I have a very great awareness of God, and nature.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   As I got older, I always had a feeling that someone or something was protecting me, and that has lasted to this very day.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I feel that I am a good judge of character now, but I don't mean that I am judgmental of people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It happened when I was only ten years old.  Although most of it is still extremely clear, I did not totally remember every detail of what had happened. As I got older, and the event became more prominent in my mind, I was afraid that there was something wrong with me. What I experienced went against the church beliefs I had at the time. I had never heard of anything like it, because in 1963 no one talked about this kind of thing. I didn't tell anyone until I was much older. And then first person I told didn't believe me, so I didn't tell anybody else about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel that I have really good insight and understanding of things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was only ten, and it seemed very strange, but at the same time very cool.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years ago. They did not believe me, and after that, I didn't talk about anymore. This is the first time I have ever said this much in detail.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     A while after the experience I saw it as 'probably real.' I also I thought I might be crazy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I see the experience as 'definitely real.' Because I remember this event clearly to this day. I have never forgotten it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sara_v_nde.html