{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sara_nde.html","mytitle":"Sara NDE 4700","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sara NDE 4700  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sara NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2310 Sara NDE 4700  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After almost fifteen days of what I thought was my period, and not knowing why it was going on so long, I fainted as I came out of my bedroom. Everything started to lose shape, fading. I could just see the outlines of things, which then started to shine, until everything became a light, growing stronger and stronger and changing from bluish to white. From the darkness, I felt a mixture of very unusual emotions, a feeling of peace, tranquility, happiness, joy - I felt safe, sure, in unity with everything, a part of something immense. I felt many indescribable emotions. The light was calling me, I felt I had to go to it, not feeling my body, but knowing that I could get to it (the light). Then I felt that something was pulling me in what would be my chest, I felt sadness, concern for my family, I did not want to leave this tranquility, but I heard my father's voice asking for my help, saying they needed me, that I must make an effort or I would not survive, that I was strong. Then I gave in to that, and the light disappeared. I woke up to nighttime in a hospital room, with a drip and a breathing tube. They told me that when I fainted I went into seizure and that my father saved me (I saw his bruised fingers which he used to stop me swallowing my tongue), that on arriving at the hospital I had stopped breathing, reacted to nothing, had almost no pulse. They managed to stabilize me and effected a curettage. The time between my fainting and the operation was less than a day, but the time which passed for me while I was unconscious, I experienced almost as an eternity.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2006
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    desangramiento  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' desangramiento por aborto

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I couldn't say, it was some time ago.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I couldn't say as it was some time ago.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed a long time to me, years, which turned out to be not more than a day, when I woke up.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I did not exactly have a sense of sight, I just was aware of the light, it was like seeing, but sight which involved my whole being.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard high voices, like a chorus, but without knowing where they came from.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     A great presence.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I just saw the outlines of the objects which later started to shine, until everything became a light which grew in strength and changed from bluish to white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, joy, tranquility, safety, then concern.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Sometimes I get kinds of instant messages, I know certain things are happening or have already happened.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have followed Wicca for the last two years.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have followed Wicca for the last two years.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I stopped having attitudes which previously repeated themselves over and over, and were damaging. My relations with family and friends were sad and in some cases led to conflict.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes I get kinds of instant messages, I know certain things are happening or have already happened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Almost a year after the event I told my family. From the time it happened I had been putting things in order in my mind.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sara_nde.html