{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sara_v_nde_9582.html","mytitle":"Sara V NDE 9582","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sara V NDE 9582  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sara V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5166 Sara V NDE 9582  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was 25 years old. At that time, it was not mandatory to wear a helmet on a moped. I was driving my moped and on the way to meet with my husband. A truck behind me veered to the right and hit the back of my moped.  The blow knocked me to the ground, hitting my head on the curb. This all happened in a matter of seconds and I never did see the truck.   

    Suddenly, I found myself in a magnificent place. I was younger, like about 13 to 15 years old.  I was dressed in a sleeveless, knee-length, white tunic. I remember being barefoot. The feeling was one of immense happiness, endless bliss. I was running in a meadow with very tall grass.  The grass was the color of a very intense green, comparable to the expanses of Scotland.  Yet, the color was much more of an intense green color and phosphorescent.  This color doesn't exist here, so it is hard to describe it. The sky was very blue, with some white clouds.  It was very pleasant scenery.  At the bottom of this clearing of grass, there was a huge, majestic oak tree. It moved in the wind and was so beautiful. I knew the tree was a doorway and was running at breakneck speed to reach it. I had no recollection of my earthly life and just wanted to go.  

  Suddenly a pure white, shining unicorn appeared in front of me. It was beautiful and only something like this could stop me. He lowered his head, as horses do to be stroked. I caressed it and the perception was that of a velvet superior to any velvet I have ever touched. It was a tactile sensation that does not exist on earth.  I love animals, and this unicorn was the most beautiful animal I've ever seen. I stopped running and continued to pet him.  I was flooded with endless bliss.  

  Then suddenly, I found myself in the body.   

  In the meantime, my husband and brother had arrived at the hospital. I kept repeating, 'What a trip guys, you have no idea who I saw!' and then I had a rosary and a picture of Padre Pio in my pocket, to whom I was very devoted. I said, 'Padre Pio protected me.' For many months, I had no memory and no longer recognized anyone. I couldn't match the colors in my clothes and I no longer knew who I was or what I was doing. But I was seeing many things. I was in an in-between state, where I perceived another world and I wasn't perfectly connected to here. It took me a long time to come back to this world. The head wound was very severe. My husband and I then split up.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1995  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.  Accident.         Other: Coma  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was much more connected to what I   saw and felt, such as the colors, the tactile sensations, the grass under my feet, and touching the   unicorn. I felt happier than  I had ever been.   
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the experience, I remained alert and   conscious  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     A difficult feeling to describe. It was like there was no time. I was running and trying to reach the tree, like I didn't want to miss the chance to pass through it. But, time didn't make any sense  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The vision before the experience was the one on the scooter; normal and habitual vision. Perhaps visually flatter than that of experience. That is, the less vivid colors.  If I had to compare them, those of experience seemed not only colors, but colors that possessed their own life. An uncommon vibration and frequency. As if the   colors here in comparison were dull, dead.  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was also here much more alive, vibrant. I could hear the rustling of the leaves of the tree at the back and felt them as if they were next to me. The dimension of space was missing, it was as if everything happened in the same place.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   the sky was blue but extremely luminous.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     It was an impossible place to exist on this earth. It was a place with a very lively vibe. The tree at the back was a door  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss. Infinite peace and joy. Enthusiasm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I was completely connected with the world I was in. There were no linguistic or spatial boundaries. The healthy action was to be able to communicate telepathically and instantly  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  Before I got to the tree, the unicorn stopped me.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Spiritual  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritual  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I'm of Catholic origin, but I was always spiritual and I always saw beings of light in my dreams, when dozing on the morning, and in meditation.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I received some confirmation of what I thought in my life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I met a Unicorn  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I perceived that real life was there, not on Earth, and I had the sensation that I came from there and that I was only passing through Earth.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt that beyond the tree I had encountered millions of souls; it was a great experience. I felt that there were infinite worlds, and that the truth was there.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I understood that there was a world where everything was peace, acceptance and joy. I ran quickly for this world. I wanted to enter it.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew exactly where I was going and what I would find, as if I perfectly remembered what lay beyond. When the unicorn arrived, I felt that I could not go and that they had stopped me very gently. I felt I had to do other things on earth  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I understood that beyond the tree was world of bliss that I wanted to reach and that was welcoming me.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     In a certain sense, I was warned of the difficulty and burden of earthly life, from which I tried to flee, running as quickly as possible  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt great love where I was. Everything was love, the grass, the sky, the tree, the unicorn, I too felt immersed and part of this infinite love.  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     After the period of memory failure, I began to work as a healer more and more, until the end of my marriage, the change of my house, and progressed to the opening of my center and a whole series of studies I conducted on healing. Now I am a full time healer she is very happy to do it  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I didn't feel welcomed and understood by my ex-husband, who apologized to everyone for my craziness. I was no longer able to trust him and after a few years I left him. I had moments of great difficulty with my family, then mended thanks to the work of years and having demonstrated to everyone that my beliefs made sense. My mother still doesn't fully believe me, but it doesn't concern  me: I believe it is correct that as I have claimed the truth of my experience,   we all have the right to live according to their beliefs. I tell my experiences only to those who are really interested.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I was already a healer but my husband hindered my work and my family didn't believe me. I was in a lot of pain, and I didn't know how to go about my way. I was late. After the experience and having lost my memory for a long time, I decided to dedicate myself to what my heart prompted me to do. After 3 years my marriage ended and I started working as a full time healer.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've had them since I was very little: I saw beings of light, I saw what would happen in the future, I knew many things about life without having studied them, I spoke with animals and plants, I had the gift of healing, and of reading people in intimate.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The meeting with the unicorn. I have always thought that these beings really existed, and having touched one for me is an unforgettable experience and a great gift that I have been granted.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I brought it up right away, but my ex husband and family thought I was crazy. I have been considered crazy for many years. Now spirituality and healing are everyday things. In my day I was an outsider and I suffered a lot from marginalization, blame, judgment and I was told many times that I was crazy. I have been alienated from   many people and my family for my beliefs and have done a lot of self-analysis over the years to make peace with this great pain and anger I had built up at being treated this way. There was a lot of racism and bullying towards me  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had already had one when I was 2 years old, of which I will compile another format. I had read books. I can't say I was affected by it because I honestly wish I hadn't had an accident and suffered from amnesia for so long afterwards. It was not an event that I would have wished for.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt very much alive inside.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know there are so many people who have experiences like this. I hear my father who died in September last year that he communicates with me in various ways. I strongly believe in this kind of reality  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sara_v_nde_9582.html