{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sara_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Sara S NDE 7975","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sara S NDE 7975  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sara S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4134 Sara S NDE 7975  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was about to enter the house, I tripped and fell to the ground banging my knees.  My father got a hold of me and made me stand up quickly.  I felt a kind of buzzing in my ears and everything went dark.  I could see myself fall on the floor with my mother trying to wake me up and my father shouting my name.  

I felt myself travel at a tremendous speed through the walls of our house and those of neighbours houses.  On arriving in the street, I was able to see a friend go by with his dog. I came to a park.  Then, I felt myself travelling at high speed into nothingness.  I felt I was empty and I shouted, 'NOOOO!' But just then I heard a voice reverberating and saying, 'Go back.'

My mother said to me that they had just sat me down when I screamed at them to not let me go.  I was frightened because I couldn't feel myself breathing. They took me quickly from the house to hail a taxi and to take me to the hospital. When we turned the corner, I saw my friend dressed just as I had seen him and with his dog. 

This experience was very frightening because I didn't understand what had happened to me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Caida  Other: Desmayo  A faint and fall

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my mother trying to wake me putting her head onto my chest.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was able to listen to what my mother was thinking.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw myself in the street.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     For me everything happened in 1 minute.  Later my mother told me I had been out for more than Â½ hour, without signs.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision in my left eye is very poor, yet I was able to see very well with both eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I listened to every sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a friend walking.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace.  When I went off at a high speed, I felt an empty sensation that came to me from nowhere.  It made me very anxious and frightened.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     At this age, I only used to believe in that which I could see.  I didn't believe in ghosts, UFO's, or paranormal things.  However, after the experience, I have had many precognitive dreams most of which have come true.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I believe that death is not the end, there is something more.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a voice saying to return.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     When I heard the voice. It said to return.  It was as if it was a word ordering me or telling me that I shouldn't go to where I had been going.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I had to have my children, I felt that my purpose was to give life to my two children.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I have had dreams that come true in a few days.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because I don't know how to describe it. I could see every room in the houses when I went through the walls. It was as if I ran on my back to a place very far away at great speed.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I remember every detail like the clothes I had been wearing; I was totally dressed.  I remember every word and everything about the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When they told me that I have to come back because I still had not carried out my purpose on earth and that I still hadn't given birth to any children.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I listened to what my mother was thinking and when I saw my friend with exactly the same new shirt on that his mother had given him.  Since it was a new shirt, I wasn't able in any way to know the color or what the shirt was like.  Everything made me realize that it was all real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I saw that it was useful. I felt happy being a mother of two children one of 18, and the last of 3 years old.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       On my arrival in the street I felt myself rising and at the same time moving away from my body.  Then everything went white.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Explore the overwhelming need to tell the experience. I felt good sharing it and I hadn't told it to anyone, not even my mother.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sara_s_nde.html