{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sara_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Sara G NDE 6832","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sara G NDE 6832  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sara G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3408 Sara G NDE 6832  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was involved in a motor accident. I was a pedestrian and was hit by a car going sixty five miles per hour on a forty five mile per hour zone. I was told that my brother brought me back as he was a fire fighter with the hot shots. Well, I felt like I was lifted up. I felt like I had jumped over a wooded fence and ended up in a place that I know doesn't belong on this earth. Like in a whole new dimension. It almost looked like a painting. The most beautiful long grass with the wind blowing it perfectly. I could smell a fulfilling kind of air strong like a paint, but sweet like cotton candy. I will never forget the smell. I can still smell it about three or four times a month. I brought that back with me! I saw Jesus dressed as the shepherd and the Virgin Mary. Jesus was gazing through the grass. The Virgin Mary was standing on something that looked like rocks made of a mixture of gold, diamonds, pearls, and silver. I also saw two children. A little blonde-golden-haired girl and a little boy with black hair. They were kneeling near the pile of beautiful rocks where the Virgin Mary was standing. I was standing in the middle of this amazing field looking at all of them at what felt like the same time.

Without physically talking to me, I could understand them all. The children kept signing me to keep going and Jesus kept extending his right hand and telling that I could stay or that could go. What got me thinking all these years was how Jesus signed with his hand. The way he has his hands on the sacred heart of Jesus. I keep looking at the children and they were very persistent that I keep going. I felt heaviness and something pulling me back. Next thing I know I woke up from an eight day coma. Kneeling and praying the fifteen minutes with The Lord was my mother at my bed side. My parents were told  that because of the severe head trauma and brain surgery,  I had a twenty percent chance I would wake up and even if I did I'd be a vegetable. If nothing more, I would have to learn everything like a baby all over again!  Well, to the doctor's surprise I woke up like nothing had ever happened to me. It was a miracle is all they could say.

For the longest time after the experience, I couldn't understand who those two children were. Finally, later on I had my first child and she was born with blonde-golden hair. And then my second child, a son, with black hair.  They looked just like the children where I landed in that different dimension.  Well here, I am today. A true miracle!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/18/83

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. CPR given. Direct head injury.    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I saw Jesus and the Virgin Mary.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like I was there fifteen to twenty seconds. But I woke up eight days later from my coma.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were more colorful and brilliant.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I had no hearing. I didn't need it, I guess.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It looked like a vivid painting.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A feeling of freeness and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt a presence calling me back. And the two children made it very clear I needed to come back for some reason. As if almost for me to someday be their mom.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel that god or Jesus put in my mind that they are not a religion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I value my life. I’ve never done drugs. As to the guys that hit me, they were all drugged and drunk.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Jesus and the Virgin Mary. They had a beautiful unearthly glow.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus and the Virgin Mary with a beautiful glow.. Hard to explain.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I became aware that I had another life a past life.. Seems to me like in the 1800 era...

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I saw Jesus so beautiful.. So amazing.. It happened so many yrs ago but has never left my memory.. Feels like it just happened yesterday..

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowledge of knowing what he wants and expects of us. And that is to believe in him and his love for all of us.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I feel like the purpose for me coming back from the dead was to tell people about believing.. And loving in Jesus.. Feel like he sent me back to talk about my experience and touch people's lives...

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Feel like Jesus sent me back to touch people's lives and so people can believe in him and his pure love to us..

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   The whole experience... Imprinted in my mind forever!!!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     At first I did till about eight years ago. I could feel family and friends’ deaths. I could feel slot machines that were going to hit. Made a lot of money that way. But I felt after a while I didn't want my new feelings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my parents and family right away. With other people later on in life. I stopped sharing because people started looking at me like I was crazy. Others said I needed to share my story and they said they were privileged and honored to meet me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It’s hard to explain. If it wasn't real, I don't think I'd remember it as clearly as I do. It’s been thirty years since it happened and I vividly remember it as if it just happened today.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I met a man in California that told me I was chosen by god not to suffer the end of the world. He knew about my car accident and everything that I experienced during my coma. This is a stranger that just came up to me. He knew all about me it and scared me. He said we need to talk and he will find me again.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sara_g_nde.html