{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1santo_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Santo C NDE 21035","mylang":"de"}
          	        Santo C NDE 21035  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Santo C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						717  Santo C NDE  21035  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was wounded in Vietnam by a mortar round (another half-inch and I would have been dead). All of a sudden, I was above my body looking at myself on the ground. I thought I was dead, and the first thought that came to my mind was how the three women in my life were going to cry. There was a warm and secure feeling, like everything will be all right; but once I thought of those women crying I was hurled back into my body and was up and running.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    16MAY68

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes       'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was about fifteen feet above my body with no form at all.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Super-alert yet a ‘cottony’ feeling.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time stood still.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was super-alert and all-knowing.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Sad that the women in my life were going to cry. And yet, everything was OK. No fear, I felt an unconditional love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     That death was another stage of life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It felt like I was sent back into my body because I didn't think of myself first, but thought first about the women in my life.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am sure we all come from God and go back to God. And, that heaven and hell are what we create here on earth.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     From then on I could always ‘hear’ my mother and sister's voice in my head when they were in trouble. My friends got so used to me saying ‘I need to go to my sister's, I hear her calling me’, that they would come along. Every time it happened, I would show up and sure enough, my sister or mother would tell me they needed me and thought of me first. Each time they were in trouble, physically or spiritually.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was that the wound sent me home. The worst part was the wound sent me home. The experience also caused me to question life, death, and psychology. It sent me on a life-long search for the ultimate answer of why we are here and is there life after death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I don't know if they were influenced, but they listened and believed. They did not criticize or poo poo my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Twice more under life and death experiences I came out of my body. Once I was hit by a car going about forty five miles per hour and knew in a nanosecond I couldn't go back or forward to get out of the way. I came out of my body, watched myself throw my body at the hood of the car, and was dragged a full city block while under the car, holding on to the front bumper and watching myself from above. When the car stopped I was forced back into my body, uninjured.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1santo_c_nde.html