{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandy_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandy M Probable NDE 4300","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandy M Probable NDE 4300  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandy M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2118 Sandy M Probable NDE 4300  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was admitted to the hospital hemorrhaging after a miscarriage. I had passed a lot of blood. The nurses in the emergency room slanted the gurney to have my head toward the floor and my legs in the air since I had lost so much blood. The nurse was marking off on my arm where I was warm and cold. They said they were going to rush me into surgery as soon as the doctor arrived whom they had already called. They told me they would have to perform a dilation and curettage procedure and they would put me out. 

In the recovery room I was speaking to a being that I had the understanding was the Lord Jesus Christ but he didn't say he was but I just 'knew' who he was because of the comfort and peace, I was in. I was conversing with the 'Lord' and I said what I thought was out loud, 'Thank you for being with me during this,' and I just had such a warm and cozy feeling, really calm and at peace. I then realized that I was awakening and I saw a nurse in the room. I said asked if she heard me talking.  She said, 'No.' And I said you didn't hear me talking and she said no you weren't talking.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Miscarriage  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the whole 'conversing'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole conversation.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was like time didn't matter and I don't know how long I was in this 'state' of conversation and presence.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It felt like I was in knowledge but as far as what I could actually 'see' I don't remember what I could 'see' it was more of a feeling of comfort and knowledge.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very clear hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative and above.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I am uncertain about the color during my conversation.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The area around my awareness while speaking to the Lord was beautiful in that it was the most peaceful, calm and comforting "place"

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt such calm, peace, and totally comforted (although I was sad about losing the baby) like my body wasn't really feeling - it was such an awareness of me feeling like one with the being that I was with - very connected and I knew that I was me and that I was with the Lord or Spirit of the Lord.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The experience made me certain that the Lord is real which to me would mean that the Bible is real and the way to live is how the Lord wants us to. I can't say that I always live what I have learned though! But I do KNOW that the Lord is REAL because of this experience.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The experience made me certain that the Lord is real which to me would mean that the Bible is real and the way to live is how the Lord wants us to. I can't say that I always live what I have learned though! But I do KNOW that the Lord is REAL because of this experience.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I definitely felt that I was in the presence of the Lord and it was very special.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I realized that I had a special experience and that people are very special to the Lord and that he really cares for us as individuals. I wanted to be the best parent I could be for the child that I already had. I raised my children to know the Lord and to know that we would be with the Lord after life on earth!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful part was that the Lord comforted me and put me at peace totally at a time that was really awful. My family thought they were going to lose the baby and me. I knew that the baby was gone and I really was at peace about the whole ordeal since I had the experience with the Lord and it was like I had this special conversation which let me know that the Lord was in control.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was scared to tell anyone at first then I questioned why it happened to me and thought maybe I was supposed to tell so I told within a couple of weeks. People looked at me like I was crazy. I still tell people about my experience every chance I get and they look at me like they wonder about me but I don't care I have decided to tell because I think there are others like me who have had an experience and I'm not crazy. I also want people to know that God is true to his word and he is (or his spirit or Jesus) is with us when we need him most. (I really felt that it was not God the Father but instead either Jesus or the Holy Spirit and it was just the feeling - I don't recall the 'being' tell me its name it was just a 'feeling' very hard to explain but I knew in my heart or head exactly who it was (if that makes any sense).

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had the experience after surgery when I was in the recovery room after I was in the hospital after hemorrhaging really bad at home for hours and then going to the hospital in shock and after losing a lot of blood.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was a hundred percent real and when I talk about it even now I just feel I want to share it. I wish I had written it down!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am so glad to share my experience!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandy_m_probable_nde.html