{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sara_charlotte_nde.html","mytitle":"Sara Charlotte NDE 2386","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sara Charlotte NDE 2386  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sara Charlotte NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						708  Sara Charlotte NDE  2386  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had an allergic reaction to medications in the hospital. Total cardiac arrest and flat-lined. The sound I heard upon dying was exactly like the sound check that they used to give in the movie theaters when it says, 'The audience is listening.' I was suddenly aware of being outside of my body and heard my sister crying and fighting to stay next to me. I was suddenly in some kind of very long hallway. I felt a being on each side of me and was pulled really fast through the hallway. I felt scared and for some reason pictures of my mom, crying at my funeral flashed in front of me. The beings (I guess angels) made me calmer and I all of a sudden knew that I was going to see my grandpa wherever I was headed.

I came to a halt and it was in some kind of 'Limbo' where my sins where dealt with. I felt sensations of sadness and witnessed my first sin being committed. I was aware of almost some kind of judge being present but not visible. I felt scared and was pleading to help me. Again, the two angels were next to me and I was lifted up to a mountain-like top with them. I was told to look down and witnessed heaven and hell. Yes, I know it sounds insane to someone who maybe has not been there.

I found my faith very fast right there on the mountain and realized that very moment when God had tried to speak to me but I was too busy with material things. It felt like someone had cleansed me off completely. I felt like an almost magnetic pull with the angels and wanted to move forward but the angels told me I had to go back again. I had to tell what I had seen. I just wanted to see my grandpa and felt like fighting going back. It was as if I was dropped and I fell and crashed back into my body.

What amazed me was the amount of time, I had only been gone less than a couple of minutes, but it seems that it felt like hours. I used to be a totally different person before my experience. Maybe part of my personality had to do with being young and naive about life. Not caring for others. I will never forget that there is definitely a place called hell. I can witness to this.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Oct 1987  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Allergic reaction       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I guess the best feeling is exactly like being truly awake for the first time in my life. It was like my life was a dream in a fog at that point.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       On the mountain top looking down on heaven and hell. It was a feeling of being truly awake for the first time ever.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no time anymore. If I only could describe to you what that feeling is.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In the beginning of the experience in the hallway it was quite foggy still things were unclear and mumbled like. It is strange but during the whole experience I had a feeling of being transparent, the beings (angels) were also not like people with faces they were more like a presence, they had bodies but not features if that makes sense.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The long hallway.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The two angels (all them that, I did not see any wings or halos though) and the judgment being.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I do not know if you can call it a light, more something white and bright. When I think light I imagine the sun and it was not like that or a lamp light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     My mountain top ( it was like a mountain top, the best way I can describe this)  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared (at one point the height of all fears) sadness, then relief, a feeling of forgiveness, an almost childlike innocence after being cleansed and a feeling of being fragile, vulnerable. Comforted and of course wanting to get somewhere.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     It was things I had not remembered ever without the experience. Things I thought mattered did not and vice versa. I felt like I was given complete knowledge of everything and everyone.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        It was so scary. I would tell people to look up to the sky, in a few seconds you will see a shooting star, and it happened several times. So very many things happened, including knowing people's names and where they came from.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Completely from non-believer to believer.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Completely from non-believer to believer.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Absolutely, universal order, the understanding of everything.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I give and give and give. My priorities are so changed and therefore my relationships have all changed. I am very forgiving (I'd like to think) I constantly think of the consequences of things I do.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The incredible emotions, realization astonishment. It is like everything you ever did right or wrong EVER is brought together and presented to you. I felt like I was given the answer to the mystery of life. (If I could only remember what that was.) For the first time in my life that I could truly understand why it does not matter how rich or how poor you are.  Or how powerful or powerless you were on earth. I was just a bare soul (I guess I can say that) and was somehow told to bring a message back with me.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Immediately after the experience I did something called automatic writing. I wrote a whole page in perfect Latin and I do not know Latin. We brought this to a priest and he confirmed that it was things from the Bible (various parts). At this time, I only remember the last word being 'Omega'. People would speak other languages and I would understand everything. People were actually scared of me.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience as a whole whether frightening or not, it was something I had to understand. I feel so sad for people that do not get a second chance like I did.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few family members. My mom is now religious.  My sister is now religious. I am NOW of course a true believer of God.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I had absolutely no experience or any knowledge of anything called near death experience. I was very naive.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There is no question for me at all, it was all real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was certain things that were brought up to me during my judgment that I myself would never have known or figured out was such and bad choices that I had made. I understood that even when you say something vicious to someone it could be more of a sin that stealing an apple if you are hungry. In effect, this kind of thing I could never have thought of. The total change of my personality. I am a proof to myself every day of the reality of this experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Only sitting in the movie theater hearing 'The audience is listening' sound.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       WOW! I have cramps in my hands from writing.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I had a watch on my hand all the time prior to my NDE and since then it seems that watches on my hand malfunction. I read that this is quite common for people with NDE. Maybe add that question. It would be interesting to understand why that is.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sara_charlotte_nde.html