{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sanne_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Sanne V NDE 9513","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sanne V NDE 9513  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sanne V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5122 Sanne V NDE 9513  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I live in a rural area, so I was cycling a few kilometers to school each day. I was in the last year of primary school. I live on a farm and we had a paved exit next to our house. 

  It was a summer morning and I was leaving on my bike to go to school. I saw a small, blue car on my left.  It wasn't moving very fast, so I figured I could get across the street before it got to our paved exit.  Unfortunately, there was a fast-moving motorcycle behind the car that was passing the slow-moving car.  I didn't see it coming until it was too late.  I realized it was the end for me and I have no further memories of being in this world. 

  I remember everything being dark, but it was not scary. As I was flying towards something, I thought about several things.  I thought that I was only 12 and it was too early to die.  I wondered if I would see my grandfather.  I also realized that I didn't want to leave this world because I knew my parents would feel sad if I died. 

  The motorcyclist was on the other side of the road. He had a dark green motorcycle and seemed to be very concerned with the motorcycle and inspecting it. He wasn't looking at me. Then I woke up.

  I was about 9 meters from the middle of the road, next to my house. I panicked and called out for my mum. She came and then the doctor came. I had a severe concussion and some scratches, but otherwise I was fine.

  The remarkable thing is that this memory seems to be very clear and it never changes the way other memories sometimes do. Everything I thought was happening at the same time. The memories were very neatly ordered and traceable. It is not something I could do now, even if I wished it.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 around July 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was hit by a motorcycle. I was on my bike when it hit me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could think multiple thoughts at the same time, individual form each other. Also, it was much clearer. Time didn't seem to exist.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was flying  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I became much more sensitive to light. Otherwise, my vision is very clear  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I became much more sensitive to noise. It can really catch  me off guard.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was somewhat of a tunnel  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was very peaceful  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe      

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became less religious more spiritual  

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was very young.  I had a big effect on me later in life  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was very young  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  This memory is way more accurate than any of my other memories  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have very strong psychic powers now  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I can learn better now, and I have several psychic gifts         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sanne_v_nde.html