{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 1588 7693 5322","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_december_1888_supplement.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 Supplement December 1888","mylang":"de"}
l'Iupplement.) The Work of Edmwnd Gwrney. 359
SUPPLEMENT.
I.
*** It is proposed to append to each Part of these Proceeding. a Supple-
ment, consisting of papers not strictly included within the
tranaa.ctions of the Society. The number of books and articles in
foreign coulltries which bear upon our subject is steadily
increasing, and we hope to give in the Supplement reviews or
abstracts of this contemporary work. The Editor will be glad to
receive suggestions from correspondents aa to publications
deserving notice. Papers of certain other kinds, moreover, such
aa that which immediately follows here, may find place in the
Supplement, though not forming part of the definite work of the
Society.
THE WORK OF EDMUND GURNEY IN EXPERIMENTAL
PSYCHOLOGY.
How great a 1088 the work of our Society, and all cognate work
throughout the world, haa sustained in the death of Edmund Gurney
it would be difficult adequately to express. We can best discern it by
reviewing what he had already done,-the six years' work of a man in
the prime of life, from whom some score of further years of undiminished
energy might not have seemed too much to hope. And some such
brief account must clearly be attempted in these P'f'0Ce6ding. of which
he waa the Editor i-for the hearing at lea.at of this Society of which he
waa the indefatigable mainspring. The ta.ak,' however, haa difficulties
of its own. Much of his work lies in a field still so subject to con-
troversy that, while awaiting with confidence the world's ultimate
verdict;, we must beware of claiming aa decisive achievement what
many critics may still depreciate as mere' mistaken endeavour. Much
of his labour, too, waa carried on in such close conjunction with
other colleaguea,-in a spirit of such entire postponement of any
claims of his own to the interests of the common search for truth,
-that it is not ea.ay to disentangle the precise share of thought
Digitized by Coogle
360 The Wark of Edmwnd Gurney. [SuwJ-L
or discovery to which his mind has an exclusive title. Much
work, however, remains which is indisputably valuable, indisputably
his ;-much work, and that of a quite other kind than an outside
observer of his earlier years would have expected him to choose for the
prime task of his maturity.
This is no pla.ce for a detailed a.ccount of his character, or for review
of his literary achievements in other directions; but it would be
impossible to explain either how he came to take up this special line of
research, or how he came to succeed in it, without indicating in some
few words in what sense his previous life had trained him for the task
on which he entered at thirty.five years of age, in 1882.
Edmund Gurney's intellectual nature offered one of those ca.ses, 80
to aa.y, of double foci, ofjuxtaposed but Bca.rcely reconciled impulses,
which seem destined to become commoner a.s civilisation becomes more
complex; and which, at whatever cost to the individual, are none the
less essential for the progress, the unification of knowledge, if ever
the emotions of the one half of the world are to become the science of
the other. I mean that while his instincts were mainly II!Sthetic, his
powers were mainly analytic. His dominant capacity lay in
intellectual insight, penetrating criticism, dialectic subtlety. His
dominant passion wa.s for artistic, and especially for musical
senaa.tion. For a long time it soomed a.s though, by some strange
irony, Nature had heaped upon him gifts which he did not
care to use, only to deny him the one gift of musical inven·
tiveness-or even of executive facility-which would have aa.tisfied his
inborn, ineradicable desire. During all his boyhood, during all his
college days, music wa.s his strong preoccupation. Called upon to
choose between cla.ssical and mathematical studies, he chose classics
almost at hazard, and worked at them, one may aa.y, in the intervals of
his practice on the piano. In spite of this diTided interest, and of a late
beginning-for he came up toCambridge ill-prepared-his singular acute-
ness in the analysis of language, his singular thoroughness in leaving
no difficulty unsolved, secured him high honours and a Trinity Fellow·
ship. Few men have attained that position by dint of studies which
formed so mere an episode in their intellectual life. He quickly
returned to music, and for years continued a struggle for executive
skill which at la.st became obviously hopeless. Yet his devotion to
music was not wasted; rather it bore fruit far more valuable to the
world, though less aa.tisfying to himself, than the manual dexterity
which he had craved in vain. He wrote TM Power ofSound, a treatise
which judges more competent than I, abroad and at home, have
accepted a.s a work of serious--6ven of unique-value on the
philosophy of music. And even the unmusical reader can discern in
the book the combination of its author's characteristic qualities j-Dn
Digitized by Coogle
SapplemeaL} The W07'k of EdmvuInd (h,rmy. 361
the one hand the depth, the force, the refinement of emotion; on the
other hand the trenchant dialectic, the logic which pierces like a
dividing sword through the tangle of sentimental fallacies with which
alllllBthetic criticism is still painfully encumbered.
When music failed him he had to consider his next step. And
here it should be said that, although he possessed a competence, he
was far from rich; nor, on the other hand, had he been brought up with
the tastes and habits of a poor man. Again, in spite of the command-
ing stature and noble presence which gave the impression of so much
force and fire,-in spite, too, of much actual muscular and athletic
power,-he was not really robust; and, as is sometimes the case with
very tall men, he suffered from a constitutional lassitude which
often made all effort distasteful. It might have been expected, then,
that either he would live a quiet dilettante life, or that if he
worked hard it would be with the object of increasing his
income. But, in fact, neither of these alternatives would have been
tolerable to him. He could not bear to live without hard work; yet toil
was 80 irksome that he could not willingly undertake it for a merely per-
sonal end. Since, then, artistic delight had failed him, he had to appeal
to a still deeper, a still more potent stimulus. That stimulus he drew from
his moral nature, on which I have not yet touchedi-from the profound
sympathy for human pain, the imaginative grasp of sorrows not his
own, which made the very basis and groundwork of his spiritual being.
As yet this power of sympathy had expended itself mainly in private
friendships, and had given to his affections, to his consolations, a
unique quality on which I cannot now dwell. And it had also
interwoven itself with his craving for the power of musical expression,
in which his goal defined itself to him as the capacity so to render the
best music as to make U the poorest dwellers in the dingiest cities"
enterwith him into "the rarer mof purearlistic exaltation," and thus
to infuse "the isolation of inward experience" with " the living interest
of human sympathy."l
And now, in the ruin of artistic hopes, this human sympathy, this
deep desire to better the lot of suffering men, became and remained his
dominant, almost his only motive. But the right mode of altruistic
action was not easy to find. He felt himself too sceptical-perhaps
also too fastidious-for ma.ny of the forms of practical philanthropy.
He took no sanguine view of his power to in1luence mankind by any
purely literary production. He felt that the field in which his mind
could work most effectively was the field of exact logic, of cogent
argument, in science or metaphysics. And he turned to medicine, not
as a. pursuit in which he would be likely to attain practical
1 TAe pOUJer of Sound, p. 422.
Digitized by Coogle
362 The Work of Edmund Gwmey. [Supplement.
success, but as a branch of science which, if grasped aright,
might open at lwt some indirect avenues to usefulness. In the
preliminary studies for the medical degree-physics, physiology.
chemistry-he showed unusual thoroughness, unusual penetration; and
passing the second M.B. Cantab. examination (1880), he accomplished
the scientific, as opposed to the clinical part, of a physician's training.
But he soon found, as he had expected, that for clinical work he had
no special aptitude; that he would do well to leave the bandaging of
the actual physical wounds of poor humanity to men who perhaps
sympathised with the sufferer less, but who fastened the bandages
better. He had not, therefore, definitely adopted any profession, when
in 1882 a p088ibility presented itself of serving both science and
humanity in an unlooked-for and adventurous way.
In order to understand the manner in which this new appeal
affected him, we muat consider for a moment the nature of his deep
realisation of the sorrows of mankind. This sympathetic pain, though
it prompted him to share in various benevolent movements, was
essentially not of a kind which any specific philanthropies, any social
readjustment, could assuage or satisfy. Rather-like the melancholy
of Marcus Aurelius, or of those fragments of early Greek philosophy
which enter, as it were, at the first onset into the very core of human
fates-Edmund Gurney's compassion for his neighbours' suffering was
based, not so much on removable, as on irremovable things; on that
endless disproportion between man's desire and his attainment which
evolution can only intensify; on that sudden snapping of man's deepest
affections which evolution can only teach him to feel as a still crueller
wound; on that wail of anguish which, though it should arise but
from one hopeless, helpless creature amid the whole planet's broad
content, must still prevent us from regarding with enthusiasm, with
worship, a universe in which a single sentient being is bom to
unmerited and unrequited woe.
In his essay on "The Human Ideal,". the most deeply-felt
chapter, perhaps, in all that he wrote, he used his penetrative
imagination, his unshrinking reason, to tear aside the fallacies of those
who speak to() us of earthly life without a future as of a satisfying and
glorious thing; who would fain gild with enthusiasm that outlook
before which the wisest men have been the most sternly silent, or the
most courageously resigned.
" The Positivist religion," he says, "is •to explain man to himself.'
The Positivist, then, is able to imagine that the time will come when a
man will never, in sudden flashes, see himself, and his brief hold on
life, and his relations to existence outside him, as an inscrutable riddle;
1 Tertium Quid, Vol. I.
Digitized by Coogle
SappJem8llt..) The Work of Edmwnd Gwrney. 363
1\ time when 'the abysmal deeps of personality' will be wholly filled
up; a time when men will be insensible to the irony of affections and
devotions spreading and deepening up to the blighting and clipping
point; of 'Humanity overflowing the individual as the ocean does a
cup,' till the cup happens one day to tum upside down ; of the voice
of eonaeience speaking in tones whose depth and urgency seem often a
mockery of their contents; of the Goddess in whose paths 'flowers laugh'
and ' fragrance treads' crushing worshippers beneath her chariot wheels;
of the sense of infinite import in life, to be found (we are told) by
each in the mere multitude of lives stunted and limited like his own."
The practicalleason which he draws is virtually identical with that
taught by J. S. Mill in his celebrated posthumous essay, namely, that
it is helpful, not injurious, to the moral welfare of mankind, that they
should indulge in the hope-or speculate on the possibility-that our
life may not be truly ended by the death we know.
"I simply state, as a psychological fact, that the sense of possi-
bilities that can never be disproved is capable of exercising pervading
effect on the human mind which is absolutely irrelevant to any.
numerical estimate of odds; and that human spirits, oppressed in
the manner described in this paper, find the sense of these possibilities
an ineradicable fact in their lives. On paper, in a scheme of philosophy,
the I grand Perhaps' may look as feeble as •Humanity' looks imposing.
But there is another arena. In the hearts of countless individuals the
former expands into a pervading influence, where the latter shrinks into
a mere noun of multitude. To tell them that ' nebular hypotheses' are
I the religion of scholars, and not of men and women with work to do,J
has no force unless it can be proved that the work remains undone;
that the hypotheses interfere with the human creed and the ideal of
self-renouncing duty; that they have BOme anti-aocial tendency which
contains the germs of their own decay. No such proof has been given. As
the spread of science supplies no direct, BO the spread of social morality
supplies no indirect argument for the probable cessation of an attitude
of mind which is equally compatible with both."
Whatever may be said of such utterances as these, they will scarcely
be held to indicate either conceited fanaticism or eager credulity. I
have thought it important to quote them, because the primd facie
presumption in scientific minds against any research which bears even
indirectly on the problem of man's immortality, assumes that sach
research is only undertaken either by men whose feeling for evidence on
all subjects is weak, or by men whose personal craving for a future life
is vivid enough to blind them to the slightness of the evidence for that
special belief. Neither of these categories can be stretched to include
Edmnnd Gurney. It has already been shown-and all his writings
prove it-that the type of his intellect was not rhetorical, imaginative,
Digitized by Coogle
364 The Work of Edmund Gurney.
mystical, but sceptical, analytical, and-to use again the old Platonic
word which best describes him-ditJlectical. And as regards personal
pre-occupation with a future life he was again far removed from the
character which Ii priori critics might have &SSigned to him. For my
part, indeed, I &88uredly cannot admit that a preoccupation with
the unseen world, to whatever pitch it may be carried,-that a laying
up of our treasure in things above, however ardently our eyes may turn
to where that treasure liea,-need either diminish a man's terrene
energy, or blunt his eagerness to know the very truth-the trllth on
which he has staked his all. I leave it to those who condemn such &
temper of mind to consider how much of high religion, of high
philosophy they must strike out, as noxious surplusage, from the upward
strivings of mankind.
But I am not here imagining an ideal character, but describing &
real one; and I merely state it as a fact that Edmund Gurney had filii
a strong personal craving for a future life-had not even that kind of
confidence in Providence, or in evolution, which leads most of us to
take for granted that if that life exists, then for us and for the universe
all must in the end be well.
When, therefore, he entered upon that cl&88 of inquiries behind
which the great hope obscurely hangs, this was not with any personal
flutter, with any stimulus from inward longings or inward terror.
Reason had convinced him, not that if there were a future life the
universe must be good, but that if there were a future life the universe
t1~ight be good; and that without such a life the universe could tam be
good in any sense in which a man moved with the sorrows of humanity
ought to be called upon to use that word. And thus his attitude in
the inquiry reconciled, if I may 80 say, the lessons of two opposing
aphorisms,-the saying of Spinoza, II De nulla "' minus lilHlr homo,
quam de mtwttJ, cogitat," a.nd that older saying, and weightier still:
II Vita philosophi com7Mntatio mtwtiB." For his meditation on death.
and on what might follow death, was begotten, I say, neither by
cravings nor by fears; it was the deliberate outcome of a penetrating
survey of the possibilities of weal for men.
His practical concern with such matters was of gradual growth. It
began with a form of research-if research it could be called-strangely
at variance with his previous companionships or habits of thought.
He attended (and here I must confess to some persuasion on my own
part), he attended, during the years 1874-8, a great number of Spiritual-
istic 8eanctJ8. He sat in the cinacles of those happy believers, an alien,
formidable figure, courteous indeed to all, but uncomprehended and
incomprehensible by any. What knowledge, what opinions he
gained in this long ordeal he never made known to the world, Dor
shall I here attempt to say. But thus much I may affirm,
Digitized by Coogle
The Work of Edmwnd Gwrney. 365
. I think, for all of us who seriously pursued that quest, that in
the first place-in spite of much of failure-we could never persuade
o1U'llelves that we had a right to abandon it; and that in the second
place we perceived that the Beances with paid mediums, which formed
the ordinary method of Spiritualism, were ill-calculated to lead us to any
solid results; nay, tha.t, in beginning our inquiry with the so-called
Spiritualistic phenomena at all, we were somehow beginning it at the
wrong end. I will not here repeat the account given in the Introduction
to Phantasms of ,1&6 Living of the gropings and the tdtonnement8,
the disappointments and the successes, which u,ltimately taught UB,
in 1882, to discern a less hazardous line of approach to the cloud-
capt citadel. The Society for Psychical Research was founded, with
the establishment of thought-transference-alrea.dy rising within
measurable distance of proof-as its primary aim, with hypnotism
as its second study, and with many another problem ranged along
its dimmer horizon. Here, at length there was Se&-way for a
definite adventure; with wide possibilities, indeed, of failure-with
the bones, so to say, of ship-wrecked precursors bleaching along all
the shore,-but yet with chances also of an achievement which,
though in our lifetime it might remain obscure and inchoate, should
grow and broaden to unguessed issues in generations yet to be. But
there was urgent need of someone to give the coup de coUier to
the new enterprise ;-of an Honorary Secretary-as far removed as
possible from fool or fanatic-who should devote his whole time
and energy gratuitously to the task.
The previous pages will have enabled the reader to judge how far
by gifts, by training, by various experience, by deep-seated thirst for
knowledge, Edmund Gurney was fitted for such a post as this. He
undertook it ; and in all the work-whatever be its final appraisement-
which our Society has thus far accomplished, his part is closely inter-
woven. That work has been in great measure conjoint and consultative;
but his was ever a leading voice in the consultation. And there is much
also which practically belongs to him alone. On two such points I may
dwell; two points on which his services to human knowledge cannot,
I think, be controverted even by those who take a wholly adverse view
as to the value of those further inquiries which would fain launch the
bark of science upon a strange, an unvoya.ged sea..
The two points of which I speak are his work in psychological
hypnotism, and his work on the theory of hallucinations.
I claim that he was the first Englishman who studied with any kind
of adequate skill the psychological side of hypnotism, making therein
experiments,~t short, of course, by his premature death, but already
of the highest value ;-experiments which, though sometimes concur-
rent with those of the French school, were yet independently executed;
igitized by Goog
366 The Wark of Edmund Gurney. [SllpplemeDt.
and which mark, IloII it seems to me, an epoch in the study of hypnotism
in England.
Three names before Edmund Gurney's are a.ssociated with three
succeBSive stages of the history of mesmerism or hypnotism in the
British Empire. The first is that of Elliotson,-a man who, partly
through his own lack of tact and temper, bat mainly through the sheer
ignorance, the sheer bigotry of his medical contemporaries, has never
yet received the honour which was justly his due. He practically
introduced curative mesmerism into England; he made a Vllollt number
of experiments and threw out a vast number of idea.s; and although
many of his experiments were loose, and many of his conclusions hasty,
yet if he could look down on the great centres of hypnotic activity
to-day,--on tho Sal~triere and the Charite, on Nancy, on Bordeaux. on
Toulon,-he might fairly claim that the great maBS of the phenomena
which he spent his later life in demonstrating,-to be met only
with calumnies, sneers, or silence,-have now become the common-
places of the lecture-room, and the routine of clinical practice.
The second name is Esdaile's. Esdaile had persistence like Elliotson's,
with better tact, or better fortune; and the long series of carefully-
noted, carefully-figured operations which he performed under mesmeric
anmsthesia upon Hindoos in the Calcutta Hospital made it impossible
for any candid inquirer to doubt longer that the mesmeric trance was a
real, a valuable discovery.
The third name, of course, is that of Braid, whose discovery that a
similar condition of trance or " hypnotism" can be sometimes induced
without gaze or " PaBBes,"-without any intervention of a second per-
son a.t alI,-by mere fixation of the eyes on a bright object with an
inward and upward squint, Wlloll a most important contribution to our
knowledge of abnormal states. Braid's work became gradually known,
and hypnotism met with readier acceptance than mesmerism had found.
Yet Braid's work-such Wlloll the animus of the time-wlloll weloomed
much leBS for its own positive value than because it was supposed to
supply a kind of refutation to the mesmerists who had preceded him.
It is needless--or it should be needle88-now to say that Braid's work
Wlloll in reality a de1J6lopment of their previous work, superseding or
modifying, indeed, certain premature or too exclusive theories, but
unmistakably indicating that the whole problem of the induction of
trance, or of somnambulic states, was an even wider one, and even more
important to science, than a Puysegur or a Petetin, an Elliotson or an
Esdaile, had ever ventured to imagine. This narrow polemica.l spirit
had its usual retribution in the retardation of further discovery.
Braid's experiments-valued only IloII confounding Elliotson's-were not
themselves repeated or pursued. Incredible as it may seem, in all the
long interval from (say) 1855 till 1883-the date of pUblication of
igitized by Goog
~l The WOTk oj Edm'lJlTl,d, Gwrn,ey. 367
Edmund Gumey's first experimentB-there WBB scarcely an experiment
performed in England which added anything further to our
knowledge. About 1875 a great revival of hypnotism began in
France-began with Oharcot and Richet in Paria, and spread
from another focus-the persistent la.boura of Dr. Li~beaul~
to the Professors at Nancy. Since t}u.t date a whole literature of
hypnotism hBB grown up in France; experiment outstrips experiment,
and memoir supersedes memoir with bewildering rapidity. But to all
this movement there WBB in Engla.nd for some years no response "hat-
ever. Nay, there WBB no apparent knowledge that such a movement
was going on; and when some of us'in 1883-4 began to report from
Personal observation what WBB being done in France, and to add some
experiments and reflections of our own, our papers were received with
astonishment bordering on incredulity. Even yet, the ,a,,",," on this
aide of the Ohannel are atraligely indifferent to what is being done in
this aubject by BavamB on the other ; but nevertheleas there hBB been
progress enough in the pBBt five years to convert a good many of our
quondam paradoxes into truiama. To recount the experiments of
others, however, is not a difticult tBBk. Edmund Gurney did much
more than this. He devised and carried through (1885-8) a complex
aeries of experiments, aurpaaaed by no other hypnotist in exactneas,
either of observation or of record, with a definite view to the investiga-
tion of two great problema which lie on the borderland between
physiology and psychology, and which are apt to seem not leas but
more perplexing the wider our induction extends. The first question
may be phrased BB follows: .. Is the hypnotic state ever induced by
lOme yet unrecognised agency-aome specific influence of operator
on aubject f" To this question Edmund Gumey and I were,
10 far BB I can discover, for some years the only writers who maintained
the affirmative answer. But it is not, of course, to the mere
maintenance of a view then altogether scouted, but now gradually
gaining ground, that credit is due; but rather to the invention and
execution of definite experiments testing the matter in a rigoroua way.
I muat claim then-for in the vast preponderance of French work in
hypnotism a piece of English work, unleas clearly put forward, is
likely to be overlooked-that Edmund Gurney's long aeries of
experiments on the anathetization of single fingers of a healthy
waking snbject, without his seeing the finger selected or receiving any
BUggeation BB to which finger it was to be,-are not only the hue
experiments that have yet been made on this branch of the subject, but
are about the (YR11l experiments where the conditions have for any long
time been kept sufficiently rigorous to give the record of whatoccurred
a permanent and objective value. The excellence, that is to say, of
these experiments did not depend (BB so often in hypnotism) merely Oft
2 B
Digitized by Coogle
368 The Wark of Edmwnd (furmy. (Supp'-L
the susceptibility of the subjects employed (for the subjects, judged by
a French standard, were not remarkable); but it depended on the
inventiveness with which the experiments were planned, the caution
with which they were executed, and the acumen with which the
operator interpreted their results. Those results, though in some waya
perplexing, are surely of very high importance. For they prove---«!
far as anyone operator's experience in this protean subject can be held
to prove anything-they prove that there is sometimes in theinduction
of hypnotic phenomena some agency at work which is neither ordinary
nervous stimulation (monotonous or sudden), nor suggestion conveyed
by any ordinary channel to the subject's mind. I do not say that these
experiments, or anyone maa's experiments with living organisms
under such delicate conditions, can in themselves be called conclusive.
If not repeated, they must fall to the ground. But, on the one hand,
we still offer to repeat them, and to exhibit them, on the person of a
perfectly healthy and normal man, to any medical or otherwise well·
qualified observer. And, in the second place, the conclusion to which
they point, so absolutely heterodox a few years ago, is now receiving
adhesions from very different quarters. That conclusion is involved in
the experiments in Bommeil a distanc6 of Gibert, Janet, Richet,
Hericourt, &c. It is involved in the transferences of hysterical
symptoms vouched for by Babinski. It is involved-in one of ita forms
-in the belief to which the veteran Liebea.ult, with characteristic
openmindedness, has-after combating it for 20 years-avowed his con·
version, as to the efficacy in the treatment of Bl.eeping in/a"" of
certain hypnotic methods which he previously supposed to be operative
by dint of suggestitm alone. Wbat the precise nature of this influence,
or of these influences, may be is a further question. Edmund Gurney
discussed that point in his last published paper on "Hypnotism and
Telepathy," in ProceedingB, Vol. IV., but he did not suppose that the
last word, or bis own last word, had yet been said on the subject.
The second hypnotic problem at which he worked with marked
success was the profoundly important one of hypnotic memory-ICWbat
is the relation of the memory in one hypnotic state to the memory in
another bypnotic state, and of both to the normal or waking memory I"
This is at the very root of the psychology of hypnotism; and yet, so
far as I can discover, before Edmund Gurney's time there had in
England been absolutely no experiments (unless some scattered obsevra-
tions of Elliotson's are to be so counted,) which threw light on this
fundamental question. It may be doubted whether even now there
are many English readers who can comprehend the full value of the
papers on "The Stages of Hypnotic Memory," "Stages of Hypnotism,"
&c., which practically opened up in England a whole department
of experimental psychology. Still fewer, perbaps, are those who will
Digitized by Coogle
SoJpplemeDt.] The "Work of Edmwnd Gurney. 369
be prepared for my next remark,-that, from the point of view
of a technical estimate of Edmund Gurney's claims as a savant, the
question is not as to the value of these papers, but as to their priority.
The publication of his first paper of importance in this line was
preceded by a few months by the publication of the first of the
remarkable papers of a cognate kind by which Professor Pierre Janet
has so rapidly made for himself so distinguished a place in contemporary
psychology. But I know for a fact-nor will our courteous friend at
Havre be dis~ to question it-that Edmund Gurney's experiments
were thought out, and in great part performed, before he so much as
heard (I was myself his informant) of the brilliant results attained by
the French Professor. He of course instantly recognised the value of
those results; but, as will be seen by comparing the two series of
experiments, he continued to the end to work on his own original
lines.
I do not wish to exaggerate my friend's performances, or to show
any insular lack of appreciation of the achievements of foreign savants.
But taking the history of hypnotism in England, the history, that is,
of one of the main branches of experimental psychology in a country
which has long boasted of her psychologists, it seems to me that beside
the epoch-making names of Elliotson, Esdaile, and Braid, the critical
historian must place the name of Edmund Gurney.
Leaving now the subject of hypnotism, the next important
piece of work which I claim for my friend is the revision and large
extension of our previous knowledge as to hallucinations. To this
important, but little explored, topic he was led by a somewhat
unexpected road.
I have spoken of the discovery (as I regard it) of thought-trans-
ference, or telepathy, as the determining incident which led Edmund
Gurney to devote himself to what, for want of a more distinctive
appellation, we have entitled Psychical Research. In the slow experi-
mental establishment of this discovery he took a leading share.
And at the same time he saw that this principle, once admitted,
must have a wider than its merely experimental scope,-must
be invoked as the nearest approach to an explanation of certain
spontaneous phenomena, in all times loosely alleged to occur,
and now confirmed by first-band testimony which flowed in upon us in
an amount far exceeding any previous harvest of that kind. If there
be (and we soon became convinced that there veritably are) cases, too
numerous for chance to explain, where an apparition or other ha.1J.ucina-
tion has been truth-telling, or -veridical,-has corresponded, that is to
say, with the moment of death or crisis of the person whose aspect or
voice (at a distance transcending the ordinary operation of the senses),
is phantasmally discerned,-then here surely-whatever else we bave-
2 B 2
Digitized by Coogle
370 The Work of Edmwnd Gwrmy. [SuppJemeat.
we have at any rate a communication between mind and mind, effected
through no ordinary, no recognised channel. It was plainJy our
business to deal. with all obtainable narratives of this kind,-to show
how far these phantasms could be called into court as witnesses on the
side of telepathy.
But yet to attempt to introduce hallucinations of any kind whatever
as souroes of trustworthy knowledge-nay, as the very basis and
starting-point of deductions of the highest moment-this was an
adventurous, a difficult matter. Plainly there was an indispensable
pre-requisi~that some one at least of those who undertook thus to
treat hallucinations from so new an aspect should show that he had
mastered all that could be known of them from the old, the ordinary
stand-point. This task Edmund Gurney undertook.
Of his treatise on hallucinations-for it is veritably a treatise,
though compressed and packed almost beyond the limits of lucidity-of
his treatise on hallucinations included in Phantasm. 0/ the Living, it
must be said, as ofhis essays on the psychological side of hypnotism, that
it is not only the best discussion in our language, but actually the only
one in our language j the only connected review of foreign work on the
subject, the only serious attempt at scientific determination of the
genesis of hallucinations, their concomitant phonomena, their relative
frequency. Previous essays in English with a similar title had been
little more than mere groups of anecdotes j they had still belonged to
the pre-scientific era. Nay, there were not even any statistics
available on the matter at all until Edmund Gurney took the trouble--
the tedious trouble~to get census-papers filled up by over 5,000 per-
sons taken at random, anil thus to gain, though not all the information
desirable, at least so much more information than anyone had possessed
before him that his conclusions must serve &8 .the point of departure
for any further inquiry through this channel into the mechanism of
the mind of man.
Thus far, then, I have claimed for Edmund Gurney certain
psychological successes of an ordin;"'ry kind - pieces of work
independent of that more advanced, more hazardous line of inquiry
which leads without a serious break from telepathic experiments to the
appraisement of phantasms of the living and of the dead. For my o".-n
part, however,' (I need hardly say,) I look upon his work in this direction
as the main achievement of his brief career. But since that work was
done under conditions somewhat unusual,-conditions in which he
himself took deep delight-done in consultation by a small group
united both in personal friendship and in intellectual interests,-it is
impossible to state with accuracy the part taken by any member of that
group, however active and indispensable. It will be more to the
purpose to try to define the temper of mind which Edmund Gurney
Digitized by Coogle
1
J
8applemeDt.] The WOTk of Edmwnd Gu1"My. 371
brought to this difficult task-a temper of which the three leading
notes were disinterestedness, precision, sympathy.
By dirinterestedneu I mean more than that disregard for the
chances of personal fame or fortune which was implied by his devoting
himself unreservedly to this unpopular, this a.lmost derided, quest. I
mean an intellectual disengagement from prejudice on his own side--
a readiness, in Plato's words, "to follow the argament whithe1'lloover it
leadeth "-a genuine, instinctive delight in the mere process of getting
at truth, apart from any consideration of the way in which that truth
might affect his own argament. In controversy he showed-if I may
make a perhaps fanciful appeal to fashionable doctrines of heredity-a
combination of the acumen belonging to a descendant of the late Baron
Gurney's, with the chivalrous, fighting quality of the. Greys, from
whom on the mother's side he sprang. He delighted in the fray-
delighted in acknowledging a fair stroke or rebutting a foul one;
delighted in replying with easy courtesy to attacks envenomed with ..
that odium pltuJ quam theologicum which the very allusion to a ghost or
the human soul seems in some philosophers to inspire.
His precision of thought again, was of course essential in an enter-
prise the very object of which was to import, so far as possible, the
scientific spirit into a region hitherto abandoned to loose reports and
chimerical fancies. But to his mind precision, thoroughness, minute
attention, were not duties so much as necessities. He had, indeed, too
much of these qualities for complete effectiveness in common life. His
fastidious exactness was incompatible with that "breadth of style"
which creates a strong popular impression. He pointed out too many
difficulties ever to give the air of having arrived at an incontrovertible
solution. Yet for the particular work which he was called upon to do
these qualities were above all things needful. But for them, that
congeries of widely-gathered evidence which, under his shaping hand,
assumed corporate being as Phantatnns of eM Li11ing would assuredly
have presented many more vulnerable points to the searching
criticism to which it has very rightly been subjected.
The strict canons of written and oral investigation on which
Edmund Guruey-taking the lion's share of the joint work-with
ever-growing scrupulousness insisted, involved, of course, an arduous
and a continually increasing labour. For some three years (1883-5),
his life was largely spent in letter-writing and in interviews.
bearing on the cases to be cited in the book. Many of these
letters were on topics requiring careful handling ; most of
them needed to be in autograph; although, as the work went on, Mr.
G. A. Smith's competent help as secretary was of essential service.
But he often wrote fifty autograph letters in a day, sometimes as many
as sixty-involving some eight or nine hours of close application.
Digitized by Coogle
372 The Wark of Edmund Gurney. [Supplement.
These letters, again, needed to be supplemented by the still more
important work of personal interviews. Almost every living witness of
importance in Phantasms ofthe Living (and many persons whose names
'do not appear in that book) had before the book was published been
personally visited by one of ourselves; and the chief, the most
successful part of this delicate work was performed by Edmund Gurney.
Here it was that his power of sympathy showed itself so rare, so in-
dispensable. For the intimate narratives which form the bulk of
Plumtasms oftM Living were not (as critics have sometimes assumed)
pressed eagerly upon us by vain or imaginative informants. Rather
they were for the most part won with difficulty from opposing reserve;
they seldom depended upon one witness alone; and even when the
principal ,,:itness understood the importance of the inquiry, and wss
willing to help us, there were generally subsidiary witnesses whose
testimony was hard to come at. And there was perpetual need to steer
between the conflicting prepossessions of two classes-the mystics
(or would-be mystics), and the 8avants (or would-be savants), who were
ready on each hand to denounce the inquirer either as weakly credulous
in accepting, or as coarsely sceptical in rejecting, accounts which no
narrator till now had seriously endeavoured either to invalidate or to
confirm. To these problems, half social, half scientific, Edmund Gurney
brought more than the mere instinct of courtesy, more than the
mere lawyer-like acumen. He brought a heart touched with the
sense of human fates-an eye which grew steadier as it gazed on
issues of deeper import; his presence held with a gentle sway; and
I believe that after all his hundreds of interviews he never left a
true mystic disgusted with his hardness, or a. true 8avant with his
credulity.
What this power of sympathy was to his intimate friends I must
leave my readers to imagine. Yet no sketch of Edmund Gurney as
colleague or associate could be complete without some mention of one
faculty which, though it scarcely appears in his published works, was
to his friends a constant, a characteristic charm. I mean his hU17U)'UT,
-II. spring fed from the deepest sense of life's incongruities--an a.rrowy
satire winged with tenderness--:-a laughter nigh to tears. His complex
nature, with all its conflicting gifts and impulses, bloomed at its freest
in this intimate, this fugitive flower. All this has perished; no trace
is left, save in the memories of those for whom life has lost its
rarest savour.
We work on at a task grown harder, with heavy hearts. Yet we
have a fresh, a powerful motive to pursue it with what strength we
may. Our friend's ultimate fame must follow the fortunes of a yet
undecided adventure. It is only by pressing to ever la.rger issues tha.t
enterprise of which he was so bold a pioneer that we may win for him
igitized by Goog
The Work of Edmwnd Gwrney. 373
that honour which was not what he worked for, but which we none the
less account his due.
And meantime there are one or two at least for wham, as no living
IlIaD. was dearer than Edmund Gurney, so also few men, dead or living,
have done work more vital than he. Not by emotion, but by evidence,
by facts and not by rhetoric,-himself not greatly hoping,-he has
helped us towards the eternal hope. He is gone; b~t he has &lready
done what he could to console us. Not all in vain did his heart
grieve for human woe. He beat against the bars of our earthly prison.
house, and he has forced a narrow opening through which we seem to
breathe immortal air.
FRBDERIC W. H. MYBRB.
Digitized by Coogle
374 French Experiments on Strata of Personality. [8l1ppJemllL
FRENCH EXPERIMENTS ON STRATA OF PERSONALITY.l
It is hoped that, in the form of Supplements to these ProceedingB,some
more or less continuous account may be given of work done in our own
or other countries upon the subjects with which our Society is con-
cerned. In an early number of the Proceedings it is proposed to give
a brief conspectus of the present position of hypnotism in France. The
paper which here follows is based mainly on a remarkable essay of
Professor Pierre Janet's, which should be studied in the original by all
who are interested in the problems of personality. I have analysed
that essay in part only; and I have inserted many reflections for which
Professor Janet is not responsible. For the experiments described in
his article, and carried out, as it seems to me, with admirable skill, bear
so closely upon certain views which I have already ventured to set forth
in these Proceedings,-illustrate with such striking appositeness the
theory of personality which I ha.ve' here repeatedly advanced,-that it
was impossible for me to let them pass without hinting a.t other
lessons even beyond those drawn by M. Janet, which his results, when
carefully studied, do most significantly convey.
The heroine of the story is the same Mme. B. of whom our
readers have already often heard ;-a timid elderly peasant woman,
the wife of a charcoal-burner near Cherbourg,-and whom at first sight
one would think as unlikely a person as could well be found to extend
one's idea of the capacities of the human intelligence. Yet nature
has in some way fitted this ignorant woman to become the best
known living exemplar of a whole series of strange psychical phen~
mena; and there is perhaps no one in France whose personal history is
watched with so keen an interest hy such a group of scientific men.
Her shyness and illiteracy,-her stolid absence of curiosity and her
submissive acceptance of whatever her kind physician (Dr. Gibert of
Havre) in the first place, and Professors Janet and Richet in the second
place, may choose to ordain,-these qualities, though rendering her in
some ways less interesting as a subject, are in reality an advantage in
such an inquiry,-when contrasted, for instance, with the alert
intelligence of Borne of the habitual subjects at the Salpetriere. She
1 I. Lea ActeB Inconacienta dans Ie Somnambulisme. ProfellllOr Pierre J&Det,
Revue Pkllo.opkique, March, 1888.
II. Un Nouvel Etat Paychologique. Profeaaor J ulea Li~ia, .Rewe de I' HJPffD"
tiIfM, August, 1888.
SapplaaL) Fremh Ezperiments on Strata 0/P6'1'sO'lUility. 375
has now been unde.r close observation for several years; and physio-
logical phenomena have been noted, and tests applied, which have
amply sa.tisfied every observer, lay or medical, that in this case the
hypnotic states are of a genuine character.
In this sa.me subject, we have the best modern case of hypno-
tiaation at a distance-as already recounted in our Pr0C86ding.-and
also the best modern instance of hypnotic severance of personalities,-
&8 now to be recounted-and apparently also the best modern instance
of lucidity or clairvoyance, as recounted by Professor Richet, of whose
experiments it is hoped that an account may appear in these Proceeding•.
It is interesting thus to realise the inter-connection of these various
supernormal phenomena. It would almost seem as though some slight
modification of ordinary conditions-slight, I mean, as regards its
influence on the common processes of life-were enough to give outlet
to very various capacities or susceptibilities which in our ordinary
existence find no opportunity of manifestation.
In these extremely complex observations there is occasion for
much tact and skill in selecting some special phenomenon and tracing
its development and modification under various psychological con-
ditions. It is well to have some clue which we can hold, as we track
personality to its recesses. Professor Janet's present paper is mainly
concerned with the relation of unconscious actions to the somnambulic
state. In other words, it contains hints for an answer to the per-
plexing question: Supposing that in ordinary life I perform some
action involving apparent intelligence, but am not aware that I per-
form it, is there nevertheless within me anything which can be called
a Imowledge of that unconscious act f Is there any mode of evoking
within me, by hypnotic agency, a memory which may include that
unconscious act f This is the simplest form of the question, but, as
will be seen, it branches out into many ramifications.
Professor Janet begins by distributing unconscious waking actions
into four classes, viz., (1) Acts unconscious by reason of post-hypnotic
suggestion; (2) Acts unconscious by reason of the anesthesia of the
limb which performs them; (3) Acts unconscious by reason of mere
absence or distraction of mind; (4) SpO'l&tan6uu8 unconscious acts,-a
perplexing phrase, which signifies acts initiated by a subconscious per-
sonality without the knowledge or participation of the ordinary or
superficial personality.
L Let us take first the case of acts which are rendered more or less
unconscious to the waking subject by having been suggested to him
when he was in the hypnotic state. Now the degrees of unconsciousness
with which the subject executes the command are very various, and
can only be understood in the light of the conception which we have
now gained of the hypnotic self as a kind of permanent entity, persisting
Digitized by Coogle
376 French Experiments on Strata of Pe'1'8onality. [SuppJ_L
and wa.tchful within the subject after the hypnotic trance ha.s been
cleared away. When, therefore, a subject in hypnotic trance is told to
perform a certain act-say to open his umbrella indoors after the
trance is over-his state during the fulfilment of that command is Ii
variable combination of the dominions of the primary and the hyp-
notic self. One man, for instance, will execute the suggestion con-
sciously, will open his umbrella saying, "I like to carry my umbrella
open, even indoors,"-and will suppose that if he liked he could have
left the umbrella shut. In this case the invasion ofthe primary by the
hypnotic self is very slight, and barely sufficient, sometimes insufficient,
to get the suggestion fulfilled. But in other ·cases the hypnotic self
reoccupies the domain of the primary self in a complete manner. This
may happen in two ways. Sometimes the subject when executing the
suggestion falls back into the hypnotic trance. This is a condition
which has led some observers, as Professor Delbceuf, to maintain that
the subject is always virtually asleep until the suggestion ha.s been
executed, although he may seem to have been fully awakened from the
trance. But there is yet another mode in which the hypnotic self
controls the primary to the performance of the suggested acts. Some-
times it simply causes the primary self to perform the act uncon-
sciously. To take the trifling instance which I have given above, the
man will open his umbrella and continue talking on other matters and
quite unaware that he has opened it. We may call this, I think, the
most advanced instance of the dominion of the hypnotic self, exercised
in the waking state. For it thus accomplishes what seems to be i~
object, the fulfilment of the suggestion, without the needless accompani-
ment of a renewal of the trance. It has got the brain so well under its
control that it can set going the machinery needed for its desired act
without stopping or interfering with the machinery which carries on the
common business of life.
It is with the relation of these selves to each other that we are at
present mainly concerned, and I may begin with a trivial incident,
cOIitaining nothing new to students of hypnotism, but well illustrating
the concurrent action of the primary and the hypnotic personality,-
the hidden criticism which the subjacent self seems to be ever exercising
upon the words and actions which our primary selves fondly suppose
to be the full expression of what we are.
In these researches Mme. B. in her every-day condition is known
by the name of Leonie. In the hypnotic trance she has chosen for
herself the name of Leontine, which thus represents her secondary
personality. Behind these two, this triple personality is com-
pleted by a mysterious Leonore,--of whom we shall hereafter have
much to say, but who may for the present be taken as non-existent.
Well then, a post-hypnotic suggestion was given to Leontine, that is to
igitized by Goog
SapplemeDi.) French Eaperimenta O'n Stmta of PersO'fW1,ity. 377
say, Leonie was hypnotised and straightway became Leontine, and
Leontine was told by Professor Janet that after the trance was over
and Leonie had resumed her ordinary life, she, Leontine, was to take
off her apron-the joint apron of Leonie and Leontine-and then to
tie it on again. The trance was stopped, Leonie was awakened, and
conducted Professor Janet to the door, talking with her usual respectful
gravity on ordinary topics. Meantime her hands-the joint hands of
Leonie and Leontine-untied her apron-the joint apron-and took it
oft: Professor Janet called Leonie's attention to the loosened apron.
"Why, my apron is coming oft'!" Leonie exclaimed, and with full
consciousness and intention she tied it on again. She then continued
to talk, and for her-for Leonie-the incident was over. The apron,
she supposed, had somehow come untied, and she had retied it. This,
however, was not enough for Leontine. At Leontine's prompting, the
joint hands again began their work, and the apron was taken oft' again
and again replaced, this time without Leonie's attention having been
directed to the matter at all.
Next day Professor Richet hypnotised Leonie again, and presently
Leontine, as usual, assumed control of the joint personality. cc Well,"
she said, " I did what you told me yesterday! How stupid the other one
looked"-Leontine always calls Leonie" the otherone"-" while I took
her apron oft'! Why did you tell her that her apron was falling oft'¥ I
wss obliged to begin the job over again."
This trifling incident well illustrates the important point whiCh M.
Janet in France and Mr. Gurney in England have largely helped to
establish,-namely, the persistence of the hypnotic self, as a remembering
and reasoning entity, during the reign of the primary self. When a post-
hypnotic suggestionworks itself out during thewaking statewhich follows
the hypnotic trance, we seem at first to see a mere isolated idea which has
been implanted in the mind proceeding to fructify j or it is as though we
had set the mental clockwork to release an alarum at a given hour.
The suggested idea fulfils itself, in isolation, more or less complete, from
the stream of normal memory j and there, it seems, is an end of it.
And this is, no doubt, the safest way in which to regard the trivial
experimental suggestions with which any hypnotic subject must needs
begin. But if we proceed, and especially if we give suggestions which
are to be fulfilled at a date still remote, we begin to find that what
goes on can hardly be described as the mere automatic self-realisation
of the hypnotically-suggested idea. There must be something like an
effort to keep the idea alive,-to jog the hypnotic memory-to mark off
the number of days which still remain before the accomplishment of the
suggestions falls due. In some of Mr. Gurney's cases we get this
jogging of memory in the simplest form. It appears as a kind of self-
suggestion repeating and enforcing the original hypnotic suggestion,
Digitized by Coogle
378 French Expe'1"innents on Strata of Per8onality. (8~
but without modifying it in any way. And so long &8 there is no
modification, we may still say that these self-reminders are a part of
the original suggestion. If I set the great clock of Strasburg to show
the new moon when the new moon is due-say at six p.m. ten days
hence-then at six p.m. during each intervening day, there is, or may
be, some little self-adjustment of the clockwork, which carries on the
notification to the next evening, and marks off another of the inter-
vening days. But we do not on this account think it necessary to
credit the clock with a watchful personality, which remembers the
suggestion to strike and oounts the hours till the time comes to
do it.
But compare the apron case which we have just cited. Here the
hypnotic self begins the suggested act, but the primary self intervenes
and completes it. The hypnotic self, however, is not satisfied with
this, and begins to act again and completes the act itselt Here,
surely, we have got beyond anything like mechanism, and into something
like instinct. .Leontine, refusing to acquiesce in the apron-tying of
Leonie as an adequate fulfilment of her own impulse to tie it, resembles
the insect which must needs bore its hole or build its Il;est in its own
way, and will not make use of any assistance offered to it. Leontine's
act, I say, resembles the instinctive act of the insect; but her recital of
her act, her comment on Leonie's perplexed discomfiture when the
apron fell off without apparent cause, these already indicate something
more even than instinct at work. We see in them a parallel rather to
the mental operations of the child,-the unquestioning acceptance of
the act ordered, however meaningless, and at the same time the power
of seeing the absurdity of the intrusion of that act into ordinary
waking life.
Observe, moreover, that if we wish the hypnotic self to cease doing
something which it has been told to do, but which has now become in-
convenient, we must give our reversing order to that self directly, or no
notice is taken of any remonstrance or appeal. Like Casabianca on
tRe burning deck, the hypnotic self will go on obeying the order once
given until it is cancelled by the same voice with equal authority.
For instance, M. Janet told N., an entranced subject, that she was to
say her prayers as soon &8 she awoke from her trance. In this case the
suggestion was able to influence the ceremonial act, but not the COD-
scious intention. N. was awakened, and showed no real disposition to
pray. But her hands clasped themselves together, without her con-
sciousness,-the hypnotic self doing, so to say, what it could to pray in
spite of her. After a time one of the bystanders, and then M. Janet
himself, tried to unclasp her hands, but they were unable to do so. She
then perceived that her hands were clasped, tried in vain to unclasp
them, and became greatly alarmed. The muscles continued in strcmg
Digitized by Coogle
SappJ.meDl.J French Ezperiments on Strata of PersO'l'UlJ,ity. 379
contracture and she could do nothing with them. Profeaaor Janet was
obliged to re-entrance her, and then a word or touch of command was
enough.
Observe, however, that a collision of this kind can generally be
easily guarded against. The operator has only to add, in giving the
RggeStion, " You are to do this until I tell you to cease doing it,
and even after the primary self baa been awakened you are to continue
on the 'alert for any command of mine." It would probably in all cases
be easy to educate the hypnotic self up to this point of common-aense.
I am assuming of course that there is no tmtagoniBm to be overcome,
-that the hypnotic self is merely anxious to obey the operator, so BOOn
BB it recognises an authentic command. I do not say that it is impos-
sible that the hypnotic self should take the bit, so to say, between its
teeth, and defy the operator and the primary self alike. What might
happen in such a case we can at present only conjecture.
There is another point with regard to this contracture of the bands
in the attitude of prayer which deserves careful attention.
A contracture, or peraiatent contraction of a limb, may be of three
main kinds-(l) All the muscles may be contracted to their utmost
capacity. The attitude which the limb aBSumes in such a case is
invariable j being the resultant of the several opposing muscular forces
at work. Such lit condition is rarely obtained in a perfect form, as the
ue"ous energy is rarely equally distributed, but it may, perhaps, be
I188n sometimes in tetanus. (2) Or the contraction may be confined to
a single muscle, or more commonly to a single group of muscles whose
nervous supplies are intimately associated together by long habit.
Without going further into details, we may say that contractures of
these two claasea are anatomically tkflned,-that their limits correspond
to nerve-provinces, and that they are thus distinctly referable to some
organic lesion.
(3) But there is a third claBS of contracturea sometimes seen in
hysterical cases, where the distribution of the contracture does not
correspond with the results which ought to follow from any known
organic leaion.1 That is to say that certain muscles innervated by
difl"erent nerves may be contractured in different degrees, in such a
manner as to keep the limb in a rigid attitude, simulating a special act
or emotion, as menace, supplication, &c. In these cases, as in certain
troubles of speaking and writing (aphasia, agraphy), the area of trouble
corresponds to a complex idea, which works itself out in a group of
associated movements. And these contracture&, consequent on hypnotic
suggestion, while affording an excellent means of studying such
coordinations of movements, throw light also (as M. Janet remarks) on
Digitized by Coogle
:380 French Ezpervments on Strata of Per8onality. [SD~
the cause and treatment of certain complex contractures which
occasionally arise in hysterical or insane subjects. Professor Janet
himself effected 0. very singular cure of a trouble of this kind. A
woman quarrelled with her husband, and raised her arm to strike him.
" As if by a punishment from heaven the right arm remained con-
tractured in the attitude of a menaced blow." This contracture lasted
for three days, and she consulted Dr. Gibert, who showed the case w
Professor Janet. She refused to be hypnotised; but, as it turned out,
no actual hypnotisation was necessary. A single command given w
her by Professor Janet in the waking state caused the contracture first
to oscillate between the right and left arm, and then to disappear
a.ltogether. Thus the contracture, the forced and permanent attitude
which the limb had assumed under a strong psychical stimulus, in the
access of rage, was abolished by another psychical stimulus,-the com-
mand confidently uttered by an operator in whose power this susceptible
subject probably already believed.
This hysterical delimitation of a fantastic area of injury is
observable also in anresthesim and dysalSthesim, and seems precisely
parallel to the results of hypnotic suggestion.
I will mention yet one more experiment to illustrate the partition
of powers between the norma.l and the hypnotic selves. It shows what
may happen when the two controls are pretty equally balanced,and the
kind of deadlock which'may result. The subject N. was once more
ordered in the trance to pray after being awakened. Her hands
accordingly drew together to execute the command, but this time the
order had not taken such a strong hold as usual, and the hands were
easily separated, and the effect of the suggestion seemed to be at an
end. And now the wa.king and conscious N. was requested to put her
hands in the attitude of prayer. She tried to do so, but she found that
it was impossible. She could only clench her fists, or interlock her
fingers; she could not remember how to hold her hands with palm
pressed to palm. That position had for the time been appropriated by
the hypnotic self, and although the hypnotic self had not power to
maintain the position, it still retained control (so to say) over the
brain-cells which governed the position; so that the normal self was left
in a state something like that of the aphasic patient who knows quite
well what he wants to say but cannot control his vocal organs to utter
the sound. And similarly with the same subject, if an order were
given to the hypnotic self to write down the even numbers, the normal
self was only able to write down the odd numbers. In like manner,
in the troubles of verbal memory, we come upon cases where definitf
individual words cannot be recollected. And thus the experimental
cases confirm the lessons already drawn from the morbid -cases, and
indicate that each several word or number must in some senlt·
Digitized by Coogle
Sapplement.) French Experiments on Strata 0/ Personality. 381
correspond to a separate nervous process, isolabk from all other pro-
cesses, however closely some of them may resemble it.
Let us now pass on to consider the second class of unconscious acts,
viz.,
II. Arts tmcomcWU8 by reason 0/ the anasthesia 0/ the limb which
performs them. And here let us consider whether some part of the pro-
cess thus far described is capable of reversal. We have seen that by
suggesting all unconscious action we can sometimes induce a partial or
systematisedamesthesia, an unconsciousness on the subject's part which
extends to the suggested act, and to that act only. Now supposing that
anresthesia already exists, as the result of nervous malady, can we in-
duce an unconscious action without the aid of hypnotism 1 With some
subjects this can in fact be done. Let us take the case of an arm which
has no sensation. Place a screen between the subject's eyes and his
arm ;--(this is better than closing his eyes, which may to some extent
hypnotise him),-and raise the insensible arm in the air. It will remain
in that position for a long time,-sometimes for more than an hour,
-thus showing (just as the rigidity consequent on hypnotic sugges-
tion also shows) that our failure under ordinary circumstances to keep
the arm extended for more than a few minutes is due to nervous and not
to muscular exhaustion. Moreover, if we communicate some movement
to this insensible arm it will repeat the movement many times; even
continuing to write a sentence which has been suggested to it.
Mme. B. is completely anmsthetic on the left side. Professor Janet
put an opera-glass into her left hand, a screen being interposed between
hand and face, so that Mme. B. could not tell what had been done.
But the left hand opened the glass and raised it towards the face, thus
bringing it into Mme. B's. visual field. Mme. B. exclaimed with astonish-
ment, "Why, it is an opera-glass that I have in my left hand." We thus
see that the unconscious self which controlled the anresthetic hand con-
trolled also a certain amount of intelligence. The hand was made to
execute the complex movement which the touch of the opera-glass sug-
gested. Thus although Mme. B. (Leonie) could not feel what was
happening to that arm and hand, someone or something must have felt
the touch; some nervous centres must have responded which were
capable of executing much more than an ordinary reflex movement,
centres which had at their command the experience of life, even the
experience of writing a sentence, which in Mme. B's. case is an accom-
plishment quite recently acquired.
Once more. The self, or whatever we call it, which dominates the
anresthetic limb, is capable of exerting a choice, or recognising a dis-
tinction between various operators, as decidedly as the normal self can
do so. Thus if M. Janet (out of sight of Mme. B.) extends her aures-
thetic arm in the air, he finds that he can himself easily move it in any
382 French Experiments on Strata of Per8onality. (8uwl-l
direction, but that others cannot do this. A friend tried to move it,
but failed; or if he pushed it forcibly out of its position it recoiled
into position again. Thus, whatever the electi11ity between di1l'erent
operators, the obedience to one rather than to another, may mean, the
aruesthetic self exercises this electivity, or power of choice, as discrimi·
natingly as the normal self.
Experiments like these, with anaesthetic limbs, ought to be repeated
as often as possible. Thus far they seem to show that there is a dOle
analogy between the psychical conditions governing the anaesthetic limb
and the psychical conditions governing the subject when in the state
of hypnotic trance. We shall next reach an analogous conclusion by
110 still more curious train of experiments.
III. Let us now deal with acts rendered unconscious by distrac·
tion of mind. This class of actions, of course, is no longer the sign of
any kind of abnormality, but is common to the whole human race.
There is no one who does not many times a day perform some triffiDg
action, which, nevertheless, is not a reflex action, but needs, or has once
needed, something of intelligent consideration. It may be remembered
that in introducing the subject of automatic writing I pointed out
that the first indication of writing not immediately governed by the
waking intelligence was to be found in the words often unconsciously
scrawled on examination-papers, &c., by persons whose mind was con·
centra.ted on some train of argument. Such unconscious writing is, of
course, only one variety (though the most interesting variety) of tht'
unconscious gtJlltuTe8 'or actiOns with which we have now to deal. And
the study of these unconscious actions brings out in a curious way
their analogy to the acts of the hypnotic self. Just as our scattered
dreams ma.y consolidate, so to say, into successive periods of somnam·
bulism, connected by a chain of memory, so also our acts of distraction
in waking hours may be educed and fostered in such a way as to
become a more or less continuous manifestation of an underlying per·
sonality. M. Janet's good fortune in finding" subjects," and skill in
using them, has afforded a curious instance of what may be done by
mere suggestion in the waking state,-suggestion not loud and dominant,
but insinuated so gently that the acts which follow upon it never
obtrude themselves upon the subject's attention, which continues
occupied in some other wa.y.
P., a man of 40, was received into .the hospital at Havre for
deliriu.m tremtJfl8. He improved, and became quite rational during the
day time, though still delirious at night. The hospital doctor obsernd
that he was highly sugge8tible, and invited ~fessor Janet, whOll8
words I now quote :-" While the doctor was talking to him [on I
subject which interested him] I placed myself behind him and told him
to raise his arm. On the first trial I had to touch his arm in order to
Digitized by Coogle
provoke the desired act, ,afterwards his unconscious obedience followed
my order without difficulty. I made him walk, sit down, kneel,-all
without knowing it. I even told him to lie down on his stomach, and
he fell down at once, but his head still raised itself to answer the
doctor's questions. The doctor asked him, 'In what position are you
while I am talking to you l' 'Why, I am standing by my bed, I am
not moving.' 'Don't you see how small you have become l' , I
am shorter than you are, but I am not shorter than usual.' I could
acarce1y believe that a ·man awake and in possession of his faculties
(for there was no delirium), could imagine that he was standing up
when he was really lying on his stomach on the ground. But in fact
a kind of hallucination united with the 'systematised anesthesia' in
producing this strange state of things." This subject was never hyp-
notised at all, and the sensibility to suggestion seems to have been the
mere temporary result of the state of alcoholism. It would appear,
indeed, that any relaxation of mental unity, any slackening of the
centralising energy which, so to say, keeps a man's personality together,
may afford opportunity for the setting up of a secondary series of
actions, not included in the primary consciousness. The man recover-
ing from delirium W6f7km8 was suggestible in much the same manner
as a healthy man in a hypnotic trance, or in an ordinary doze or
dream.
And here I shall for the time desert M. Janet, in order to relate a
recent experiment of Professor Li~is, of Nancy. Professor Li~geoia
seems not to have seen ProfeB80r Janet's article, and diacU8B6B the
phenomena from a different point of view.l It is the more interesting
therefore, to note their complete concordance with Professor Janet's
results.
My readers are probably aware that it is a common experiment to
say to an entranced subject, say Camille, u.When you wake, Professor
Li~geois [or any given person present] will have left the room i-he
will be no longer present, you will not hear him or see him." Camille
wakes, and·experiences what the school of Nancy term a" negative hal-
lucination.» . She no longer perceives Professor Li~geois, though in all
other ways she is apparently perfectly normal. Now in the experi-
ment to be recounted Professor Liegeois, thus banished by suggestion
from the purview of the apparently waking Camille, succeeds in getting
stealthily back into communication with some consciousness of Camille's,
but not with that same consciousness from which he has been expressly
banished. I abbreviate Professor Li~geois' account of one of these
cases.
1 The article in the &we de Z' H1IJIfIDtiIme is taken, we are told, from a forthcoming
book of Prof. LWgeoia'on SUWuRon 11M8orMaIImbulim, in their ~Cion tDi0 Jun.-
~ tmd Lcfllll MeciicSm.
2 .0
Digitized by Coogle
384 Fremh Experiments on Strata of Personality. [S~&.
"M. Li~beault entranced Camille, and, at my requeat, suggeated to her
that she would neither see nor hear me any longer. Awakened, the subject
is en rapport with everyone elae j I alone exist for her no longer j but, II 1
shall ahow, this is not strictly true j there are in her, as it were, two per.
8Onalitiea, one of which seea me, while the other does not see me, and hean
me, while the other pays no attention to my worda.
" I began by aatisfying myself as to the state of her sensibility j oddly
enough ahe was still sensitive to pain inflicted by other persons present, but
not by me j if they pricked her ahe quickly withdrew her arm j if I pricked
her she felt nothing; even if I left a pin sticking in her she neither felt nor
aaw it. [Prof8B80r Li~geois suppoaea this elective analBthesia to be a quite novel
phenomenon; but it is surely only an extension of the difficulty which the
subject of a negative hallucination habitually has in perceiving any manifes-
tation of the personage temporarily abolished. The degree of the difficulty
variea in diff'erent casea, and no doubt in the present case the negative
hallucination was very complete.] Having found that a direct appeal from
me produced no reply, I proceeded as imperl/OnaUy as poaaible ; speaking, not
in my own name, but as though I were an inward voice of the subject'. own,
expreaaing thoughts which emanated from her own mind. I aaid, 'Camille
is thiraty; ahe will go to the kitchen and ask for a glasa of water, which abe
will place on this table.' She seemed to have heard nothing, and yet after a
few moments she executed the preacribed action, with the quick impetuOUI
movements often observed in the 80mnambulic state. She was asked why
she had brought the glasa and put it on the table; ahe could not undentand
what was meant; 'ahe had not moved; there was no glasa on the table.'
Similarly she uttered whatever worda I suggeated to -her, and immediately
afterwards was unaware of having uttered them. At the aame time, when
M. Li~beault addreaaed me she was astonished, and thought that he .....
talking to the wall. Wishing to &88ure myself that she did actually see me,
though not conscious of doing 80, I aaid, 'Camille will take from the pocket
of M. Li~geois a bottle which contains eau de Cologne; she will uncork
it and smell the delicious scent.' She got up, came straight to me, found in
my pocket a bottle of ammonia, uncorked it and smelt the odour with
delight.'
I need not prolong the account of the experiment. Its point is
plain. While Camille was under the spell of the negative hallucination,
-while, so far as her conscious self was concerned, she could not dis-
cern Professor Li45geois' presence,-Professor Li~geois, speaking imper-
sonally but authoritatively, succeeded in gaining control over some
unconscious stratum in Camille, and in prompting acts of which the
active, speaking Camille continued unaware even while she executed
them.
" It has been believed till now," adds Professor Li~is, speakiDg
perhaps in somewhat too general"terms, "that the negative hallucinatioD
completely annulled the visual or auditory sensations, preventing their
being perceived by the brain. Well, we believe that this is an error;
there is visual, there is auditory perception; these perceptions do Dot
Digitized by Coogle
SappJement.] F1'ench Experiments on Bt1'ata of PeT8onality. 385
reach the conscious ego, but they realise themselves in the unconscious
ego j and the person banished by the negative hallucination can enter
into communication with the subject, from whose eyes it was believed
that he had entirely disappeared."
It will be seen how closely concordant is all this with Professor
Janet's results. I forbear to insist here on another point which Pro-
fessor Liegeois' experiment with the ammonia suggests,-namely, that
if we assume, as is on other grounds probable, that no sensation of
Camille's can have been misinterpreted by the whole of her personality,
there was probably a self profounder still which recognised, both
that M. Liegeois was in the room all the time, and that the Bask con-
tained ammonia, and not eau de Cologne. But this pomt ma.y recur
to the reader's mind at a later stage of Professor Janet's experiments,
-to which experiments we must now return.
Thus far we have dealt with a secondary personality summoned into
being, so to sa.y, by.our own experiments, and taking its orders entirely
from us. It seems, however, that, when once set up, this new person-
ality can occasionally assume the initiative and can say what it wants
to say without any prompting. This is curiously illustrated by what
may be termed a conjoint epistle addressed to Professor Janet by Mme.
B., and her secondary personality, Leontine. "She had left Havre
more than two months when I received from her a very curious letter.
On the first page was a short note, written in a serious and respectful
style.-She was unwell, she said,-worse on some days than on others,
-and she signed her true name, Mme. B. But over the page began
another letter in a quite different style, and which I may quote as a
curiosity. 'My dear good'sir, I must tell you that B. really really makea
me suffer very much j she cannot sleep, she spits blood, she hurts me ;
I am going to demolish her, she bores me, I am ill also, this is from
your devoted Leontine.' When Mme. B. returned to Havre I
naturally questioned her about this singular missive. She remembered
the fir,' letter very distinctly . . . but had not the slightest recollec-
tion of the ,tJcond. • •• I at first thought that there must ha.ve been
an attack of spontaneous somnambulism between the moment when
she finished the first letter and the moment when she closed the enve-
lope. . . . But afterwards these unconscious, spontaneous letters
became common, and I was better able to study their mode of produc-
tion. I was fortunately able to watch Mme. B. on one occasion while
she went through this curious performa.nce. She was seated at a
table, and held in her left hand the piece of knitting at which
she had been working. Her face was calm, her eyes looked into
space with a certain fixity, but she was not cataleptic, for she was
humming a rustic air j her right hand wrote quickly and as it were
surreptitiously.-I removed the paper without her noticing me and then
2 a 2
Digitized by Coogle
l
386 French Eaperiments on Strata of Personality. [8uppIem&
spoke to her; she turned round, wide awake, but surprised to see me,
for in her state of distraction she had not noticed my approach. Of
the letter which she was writing she knew nothing whatever."
LOOntine's independent action is not entirely confined to writing
letters. She observed (apparently) that when her primary self, LOOnie,
discovered these letters, she (I~onie) tore them up. So LOOntine hit
on the plan of pla.cing them in a photographic album into which LOOnie
could not look without falling into catalepsy (on account of an
~iation of ideas with Dr. Gibert, whose portrait had been in the
album). In order to accomplish an act like this LOOntine has to wait
for a moment when Leonie is distracted, or, as we say, absent-minded.
If she can catch her in this state Leontine can direct Leonie's walks,
for instance, or make her start on a railway journey without luggage, in
order to get to Havre as quickly as poBBible.
It will be observed that Leontine bas now arrived at a point mid·
way between the mere 8tages-which cannot be called perBOMlieiu.
-through which Mr. Gurney's hypnotic subjects could be led back·
wards and forwards at pleasure,-and, on the other hand, the fully
developed alternating personalities of such a case as Felida x. If
Leontine were habitually encouraged,-if a large part of Mme. B.'a
life were pasSed in that hypnotic stage in which Leontine holds
unchecked dominion,-we must suppose that Leontine would acquire
more and more power of intervening in Mme. B.'s waking state-her
Leonie state-also; until perhaps the rela.pses from Leontine into.
Leonie,-from the secondary into the primary personality,-might
become as brief and rare as they ha.ve become in the often-cited case of
Felida x. And thus the whole personage might undergo profoud
alteration by gradual steps leading on from what was at first a
mere momentary experiment.
V. We have thus very briefly traced the analogy between four claasea
of unconscious or automatic actions,-actions not forming a part of
the primary chain of memories. We have considered the automatic
actions which are the result of hypnotic suggestion; and those which
accompany local anethesiae; and those which occur during mental
distraction (or negative hallucination); and those which present them·
selves spontaneously,-which make an irruption into normal life as
thongh for some definite purpose, to fulfil the wishes of some sub-
conscious personality. I think that Professor Janet's comparison of
these various forms of automatic action is highly instructive, and I
observe with interest that they have led him to a view of the esaence
of the hypnotic state which resembles the old view of Deleuze, and
comes nearer than anyone else's that I can quote to the view which I
have myself sever~ times endeavoured to express, but which has
hitherto attracted little notice.
Digitized by Coogle
~t.l French, E~riments on Strata of Pe'I'sonality. 387
.. I shall be tempted," says M. Janet (p. 258)... to say with Deleuze
that the forgetfulness of all that has passed during the somnambulic
state is the principal psychological character of somnambulism. This
is its only constant character." Now it is perhaps too much to say
that any character of the hypnotic trance is absolutely constant in all
cases. But it seems to me most important that this formation of II
~ c1&tJin 01 memory should be insisted on as a fundamental
point, rather than the lI1UICeptibilitll to mgg6lltiOf& which recent 8tJ1HJt1t8
have more usually singled out, or the transmission of a specific
efIIuence on which most of the early mesmerists insisted. I do not,
of· course, deny the suggestibility, and I continue to believe in some-
thing like the specific efRuence, now so generally discredited, but which
Mr. Gurney's experiments seem to me to confirm. But neither of these
characteristics, I think, goes so deep as the division of memory.
There is nothing else which shows us so instructively the true relation
of hypnotism to other states.
And here I may repeat my own contention,1 which is briefly this :-
I hold that hypnotism (itself a word covering a vast variety of
different states) may be regarded as constituting one special case
which falls under a far wider category,-the category, namely, of
_lopment8 ofII 8econdo1ry per'80f&aliell. I hold that we each of us con-
tain the potentialities of many different arrangements of the elements
of our personality, each arrangement being distinguishable from the
rest by differences in the chain of memories which pertains to it. The
arrangement with which we habitually identify ourselves,-what we call
the normal or primary self,--consists, in my view, of,elements selected for
us in the struggle for existence with special reference to the maintenance
of ordinary physical needs, and is not necessarily superior in any
other respect to the latent personalities which lie alongside it,-the
fresh combinations of our personal elements which may be evoked, by
accident or design, in a variety to which we can at present assign no
limit. I consider that dreams, with natural somnambulism, automatic
writing, with so-called mediumistic trance, as well as certain intoxica-
tions, epilepsies, hysterias, and recurrent insanities, afford examples of
the development of what I have called secondary mnemonic chains,-
fresh personalities, more or less complete, alongside the normal state.
And I would add that hypnotism is only the name given to a group of
empirical methods of inducing these fresh personalities,-of shifting
the centres of maximum energy, a.nd starting a new mnemonic chain.
And observe that this is no mere matter of verbal definition; it
involves in the first place a principle of classification, and in the
aecond place a novel criterion for the discussions so frequently raised
1 See P~. B. P. Ro, Vol. IV., pp. 183-6, 224-232, 003-5.
Digitized by Coogle
388 French ExperimentB em Strata of PerBO'naLity. [Sa~L
as to the consciousnes8 or Unconsciou.snes8 of any given act. In the
first place, the classification of hypnotic stages must not be determined,
as the Sa.lpetriere school determine it, by somatic indications alone,-by
states of the muscles or of the reflexes. The true, the central indica-
tion of a change of hypnotic state will be a change of the scope of
memory.
And conversely every somatic change-even the stiffening of a limb
during apparently normal waking life-will on this view besr some
relation to the change of memory. Thus suppose that my arm is
rendered anll!Sthetic by hypnotic suggestion, and is then pricked with-
out my seeing it, I shall be unconscious of the pricks. My normal self,
that is to say, will be unconscious of them, and on the ordinary view
my whole self will be unconscious of them. But in the view which I
am now advocating I shall consider it as practically certain apriori
that some phase of personality of mine must have been conscious of the
pricks, a.nd must have registered them on some latent mnemonic chain.
Thus, in a word, nothing which my organism does or suffers is UD-
conscious, but the consciousness of any given act or endurance may
form a part of a chain of memories which never happens to obtrude
itself into my wa.king life.
The subject needs as much illustration as possible; and here I will
give two examples of the mode in which &transition from one form of
incipient secondary personality to another may be effected. Both are
taken from Professor Janet. The first shows the transition from acts
of distraction to the hypnotic state j the second shows the transition
from the hypnotio state to an independent alternative personality,
sharing in the concerns of ordinary active life.
First I quote the words in which M. Janet describes how by
merely educing and fostering acts of distraction the hypnotic state was.
ultimately induced j-as though it were the hypnotic self which per-
formed the acts of distraction, and when these acts became numerous
and complex the hypnotic self was obliged to assume full control of the
personality in order to fulfil its task.
"M. Binet had been kind enough to show me one of the subjects on
whom he was in the habit of studying acts rendered unconscious by
&nll!Bthesia, and I had asked his permission to produce on this subject
the phenomenon of suggestion by distraction. Everything took place
just as I expected. The subject (Hab.), fully awake, talked to M.
Binet. Placing myself behind her I caused her to move her hand
unconsciously, to write & few words, to answer my questions by
signs, &c. Suddenly Hab. ceased to speak to M. Binet, and, turning
towards me, continued correctly by the "oice the conversation which
she had begun with me by unconscious ftgm. On the other hand, she
no longer spoke to M. Binet, and could no longer hear him speak j in a
Digitized by Coogle
811""-*-] F'I'e'1/£k Ezperimenta on BtraJ.a Of PerBonaJ,ity. 38
word, she had fallen ~nto elective somnambulism. It was necessary to
wake her up; and when awakened she had naturally forgotten every-
thing. Now Hab. had no previous knowledge of me at all; it was not,
therefore, my presence whioh had sent her to sleep. The sleep was
therefore in this case manifestly the result of the development of
uflCOn8C'iouB ac'ions, which had invaded, and finally effaced, lihe normal
consciousness. This explanation, indeed, is easily verified. My sub-
ject, Mme. R, remains wide awake in my neighbourhood so long as I
do not provoke unconscious phenomena; but when the unconscious
phenomena become too nnmerous and too complicated, she goes to
sleep. We may similarly explain a peculiarity in the execution
of the post-hypnotic suggestions. So long as these are simple,
the subject executes them unconsciously while she talks of some-
thing else. But when they are long and complicated, the subject
talks less and less while she executes them, ends by going to sleep, and
executes them rapidly in the somnambnlic state." M. Janet goes on
to suggest (as had already been suggested Proceeding,S. P. R., Vol.
IV., pp. 235,254, &C.), that the trance which often comes upon the
"writing medium" in the middle of the seance is a phenomenon of
this same kind. When the tension of the automatic script which
the "medium" is producing becomes too great, the normal self sinks
for the time being below the level of consciousness, and the secondary
self, from which the writing proceeds, becomes dominant in its turn.
It must be observed that this explanation of that very singular
phenomenon-the trance of the automatist-is a new one, and by
no means i~entical with the phrase commonly used by Spiritualists,
who say that the writing medium is CI mesmerised by the con-
trolling spirit." In putting forward this new explanation, which
refers the trance to a mere change of cerebral equilibrium-a
mere shifting of the psychical centre of energy within the personality
of the automatist himself,-I do not mean to deny the possibility
that some influence external to the writer's may at times be
operative. On the contrary, if Mrs. Newnham, for example, (when
writing automatically answers to questions put by' Mr. Newn-
ham, but unseen by her), had fallen into a trance when overtaxed
(instead of merely feeling headache and exhaustion), this might cer-
tainly have been classed as a kind of mesmerisation by an influence
coming primarily from outside the automatist's r ;rsonality, though
exercised-not by external Ie passes" or words or looks-but as it were
from a base of operations within the automatist herself. And if there
be any intelligences, other than those of living men, which can in any
way act upon us, then assuredly this mode of action would for them
also be in accordance with analogy i-namely, to influence the subject
to write, and occasionally to send him to sleep,-to submerge his
Digitized by Coogle
310 F'1'6'nCk Ea:p6'1"innents 00 Strata of P6'I'8O'1W1,ity. [Sa~
normal personality,-when their controlling influence reached a certain
degree of intensity. But it is in ordinary cases quite unnecessary to
assume any external influence at all. Unless the mattw of the written
message be provably such as the w.riter's mind, in a state of exalted
dream, could not have originated, we cannot possibly assume, in the
face of all these hypnotic analogies, that the mere fact that the writing
comes automatically,-appears to him as external to his normal con-
sciousness,-in any way proves that it has in truth originated ontside
himself. .
And next as to the transition from the hypnotic trance to an in-
dependent secondary personality. M. Janet justly remarks,-and
here he is following, probably without ever having seen the ZoiBt, the
observations which Elliotson made long ago,-how very different,
in different cases, is the amount of ptW8onaJ.ity which the hyp-
notised subject is able to manifest. For it must be observed that the
hypnotic self by no means closely follows the characteristics of the
waking self. A person who is lively and clever- in common life may
make a dull and torpid hypnotic subject j and on the other hand a
person who in .common life is shy or stupid may develop, when hyp-
notised, .. surprising boldness and vivacity. This was eminently the
case with Dr. EIliotson's patients, the Okeys. " I .used first to send
them to sleep," he says (ZoiBt, Vol. III., p. 58)j " on their opening their
eyes, and becoming active again, they were in a wild, merry, and mad
state, most waggish, and full of ungovernable fun, caring for nobody."
This fact, like many other points which are now matter of daily obser-
vation, roused suspicion as to the genuineness of Dr. Elliotson's phe-
nomena. It is to be wished that those who scoffed at the Okeys could
have seen Professor Janet's undeniably genuine subject Mme. B., whose
hypnotic character (as I have myself seen) undergoes an even grotesque
change of the same kind. "This poor peasant," says Professor Janet,
"is in her normal state a serious and somewhat melancholy woman, calm
and slow, very gentle and extremely timid. No one would suspect the
existence of the personage whom she includes within her. Hardly is
she entranced when she is metamorphosed j her face is no longer the
same j her eyes indeed remain closed, but the acuteness of her other
senses compensates for the absence of sight. She becomes gay, noisy,
and restless to an insupportable degree j she continues goodnatured,
but she has acquired a singular tendency to irony and bitter jests.
. . . In this state she does not recognise her identity with her
waking self. •That good woman is not I,' she says, •she is too
stupid I"
Once more. We have seen that Leontine (Mme. B.'s hypnotic aelf)
carries to a high point the difference of character which is in different
degrees observable in the majority of similar cases. But LOOntine is
Digitized by Coogle
811pp1emeu$.] F'1'tIIlCh Eaperinnems on Strata 01 Pe'l'8()'l'l,Q],ity. 391
in another way also a remarkable hypnotic personality. Mme. B. has
been 80 often hypnotised, and during so many years, (for Rhe was
hypnotised by other physicians as long ago as 1860), that Leontine has
by this time acquired a very considerable stock of memories which
Mme. B. does not share. Leontine therefore counts, as properly belong-
ing to her own history and not to Mme. B.'s, all the events which have
taken place while Mme. B.'s normal self was hypnotised into uncon-
scionsnesa. It was not always easy at first to understand this parti-
tion of past experiences.
"Mme. B., in the normal state," says Professor Janet, "has a
hnsband and children. Leontine, speaking in the somnambulic trance,
.attributes the husband to 'the other' (Mme. B.), but attributes the
children to herself. . • . At last I learnt that her former mes-
merisers,-as bold in their practice as certain hypnotisers of to-day,-
bad induced somnambulism at the time of her accouc:hementB j Leontine,
therefore, was quite right in attributing the children to herself; the
rnle of partition was unbroken, and the somnambulism was char:
acterised. by a duplication of the subject's existence." There surely
could hardly be a more striking illustration of the remark made
(Proct1Mling', Vol III., p. 225) that "when once a second mnemonic
chain is woven, the emergence of a second personality is only a matter
of degree."
Hypnotise a man once; go through a few experiments, and wake
him up. The memory of what has been done will (in ordinary cases)
have passed away, and you may plausibly maintain that he was not
conscions during the trance. Hypnotise him again and you find that
he recollects what happened in the first trance i-that there is now a
little scrap of memory in which his waking self has no share. But it
would be absurd to dignify these fragmentary interludes with the
name of a secondary personality. Repeat the process, however,
many hundred times, and at last the time spent in the hypnotic
trance, the experience gained therein, will become comparable with the
time spent in normal existence, and the experience gained in the
common routine of life. And if, as in Mme. B.'a case, the faculties are
quickened in the hypnotic trance, we shall have & secondary personality
like LOOntine,-leas capable, probably, than the primary personaJity
of managing the practical bnsineas of life, but yet claiming
with plausibility a kind of intellectual leadership in the joint
concern.
And here, I repeat, the induced somnambulism of the hypnotic
trance is precisely paralleled by the spontaneoussomnambulism,which,as
we know, sometimes appears in the first instance as little more than an
occasional vivid dream, but may develop by repetition into a nearly
complete scission of personality, with perhaps (as in FeIida X.'s case)
Di~itized by Coogle
392 French Experiments ()'11. Strata of Pef'8O'1I,(J},ity. [8a~
an ultimate triumph of the new or somnambulic personality over the
old or normal one.
Thus far, then, we have been tracing various ways in which &
hypnotic or secondary self may be discovered or developed, without
. asking further whether or no that new personality is itself to be
accepted as a permanent or homogeneous thing. Of course we have no
right to make any such assumption about it. On the contrary, when
once our habitual centre of personality has been displaced, we seem to
be i.p a position of unstable equilibrium, and readily susceptible of
further psychical displacement.
So soon, therefore, as we have developed a secondary personality in
our subject, we ought to try whether this personality in its turn
can be split into two parts, or rather whether it affords faults or
interruptions through which some underlying stratum can now be
discerned. Now Mr. Gurney has shown that even in the most ordinary
hypnotic trance of healthy persons two stages can in many cases be
evoked, a lighter and a deeper stage, each with a separate chain of
memory; although, as might have been expected, considering the very
slight difference between the two stages, these separate chains of
memory tend ultimately to coalesce into one. And these experiments
of Mr. Gurney's gain additional importance from the fact that, with
exceptional, hysterical subjects, Professor Janet bas been able to carry
this fragmentation of the hypnotic state, as we shall see, to a surprising
point. For it is by small experiments with average subjects that we
can best assure ourselves that the advanced experiments with ex·
ceptional subjects present us not with a mere anomaly but rather with
salient examples of a general law.
Let us see, then, if we can use the clue which the observation of uti-
comciOWl actions affords us to penetrate yet deeper into the strata of
human personality. And one of the first questions which mustbe met,-
it is M. Janet who has formulated it distinctly,-is this: Do the acts
of distraction performed in waking life form part of the somnambulic
chain of memory' Do the strata (as I may say) lie superposed in this
regular fashion, so that the acts of distraction of one stratum form part
of the conscious acts of the stratum immediately below it 1 If I divert
the attention of a waking friend so that he scribbles some word with-
out being aware of what he is doing, will he, if hypnotised, remember
the scribbled word 1
This is a question which experiment alone can solve; and it is pr0-
bable that in different cases we shall have different results. In the
first place, all those acts of distraction which, though performed in the
waking state, have special reference to an already-evoked hypnotic
personality, are likely to be remembered in the hypnotic state. Thus
Leontine, as we have seen, remembers Leonie's acts of distraction, 80
Digitized by Coogle
SapplemaDt.) French E:xperimumts on Strata of Per8onality. 393
far as those were prompted by Leontine herself,-she remembers, for
instance, the Leontinian postscripts to Leonie's letters. But these post-
scripts, though M. Janet here cites them as Bpontaneous acts of distrac-
tion, were not spontaneous in the sense in which the word scribbled on
m examination-paper is spontaneous. They were prompted by a
personality which we know to be readily evocable, and which we
naturally imagine as lying near the surface even in its periods of
latency. And, on the other hand, I do not see that we have yet any
definite proof that acts of distraction in no way connected with
hypnotism are ever recollected in the hypnotic state. They may be so ;
mel, looking to the great variety of these phenomena, I should suppose
that they sometimes are so. But the question is not to be settled in
this simple way. Sometimes, at any rate, the waking person's acts of
distraction are not included in his hypnotic memory; and we have then
to look for some memory in which they are included.
"Certain somnambules," says M. Janet, "as L.,hardly ever recover in
somnambulism the memory of their unconscious acts; others remember
only a portion of them. Leontine" (who, it must always be remem-
bered, is simply the hypnotic personality of Mme. B.) "remembers
perfectly Mme. B.'s unconscious acts when these are spontaneous,"
(i.e., initiated by Leontine herself) "or due to post-hypnotic sugges-
tion; but she never remembers Mme. B.'s unconscious acts, when the
unconsciousness is due to aruesthesia or to distraction." M. Janet's
analysis of this difference (pp. 266-272) seems to me a model of delicate
psychological investigation.
The clue to the inquiry lies in the observation that when a subject,
already partially aruesthetic through hysteria, is thrown into the
somnambulic state, the anlllSthesia may continue unmodified, and
consequently such acts as in her normal state lie outside of her con-
sciousness by reason of their aft'ecting the anlllSthetic limb, may still
lie outside her hypnotic consciousness, for the same reason. But we
have reason to believe that the sensation of limbs hysterically ames-
thetic is never really abolished; that it exists potentially in all cases,
and may in some cases be evoked in certain phases of trance. A
hypnotic consciousness, therefore, which does not include the con-
sciousness pertaining to such limbs, cannot be regarded as embracing
the whole of the possibilities of consciousness which lie beneath the
normal threshold.
Again, the same view is confirmed by the observation of the acts
of distraction performed in somnambulism itself. For when the som-
nambulic life reaches a point sufficiently alert and varied to be capable
of distraction,-when it has attained, so to say, a sufficient bulk to
make it experimentally divisible,-we find that the somnambule is
liable to acts of distraction in an even greater degree than the normal
igitized by Goog
394 French Ezperiments on Strata of Personality. [S~
subject. It is possible, by watching an opportunity when Uontine is
vividly talking, to induce her-or rather some other personality in the
same skin-to hold a conversation by signs, without Leontine's COD.
sciousness, precisely as, when Leonie is in her normal state, LOOntine
can be ind~ced to hold a conversation by signs, without LOOnie'a
consciousneBB.
The two experiments, however, are not reciprocal. That is to say
that although Leonie's unconscious acts are sometimes (not always)
coincident with LOOntine's conscious ones,Leontine's unconscious actaare
never included in Leonie's memory, any more than in Leontine's own.
They belong to some other, to some profounder manifestation of per-
sonality, to which M. Janet has given the name of Uonore. ADd
observe that just as Leontine can sometimes by her own motion
and without suggestion write a letter during Leonie's waking statAl
and give advice which Leonie might do well to follow,-BO also LOOnore
can occasionally intervene of her own motion during Leontine's domi·
nance and give advice which Leontine might with advantage obey.
But in what manner does Leonore intervenet What organ or instru-
ment is left for her to employ in this doubly pre-occupied complex of
psychical and physical manifestation t What actually occura,-811
briefly narrated by M. Janet (p. 267),-is an experimental con-
firmation of the view which .will be found suggested. in the JourtllJl
for July, 1887, as to the virtual equivalence of hallucination
and automatism,-the interchangeability of these two phenomena,
hallucination being a kind of passive automatism, or automatism a.n
active hallucination. I then urged that the" Demon of Socrates,"-
the series of monitions, intercurrent with ordinary life, which SocratA!B
received in some fashion midway between internal impreBBion and
externalised voice,-was in reality a form of automatism,-a message
emanating from sub-conscious (or super-conscious) strata of his own
being, and finding access into his normal consciousness in the form of
a hallucination, just as it might have found acceBB in the form of an
automatically written meBBage, had he trained himself to the use of
a pencil. I maintained that dift'erences in the mode of percolation
from one stratum of consciousness to another were not in themselVt'll
of primary importance,-that the primarily significant fact was rather
tbat in one way or another such percolation was established, and tlIat
moreover, in Socrates' case, the meBBage emerging from the profounder
region was an expression, apparently, of a wisdom which the normal
consciousness took willingly for the inspiration of a god. Further,
I suggested that the special mode of transmission of the messag&-
whetber, on the one hand, by the active automatism of gesture, voi~
or script, or, on the other hand, by the passive automatism of halluci-
natory vision, audition, or toucb,-might depend on the line of leM&
Digitized by Coogle
~L] French E~rrumt8 00 Strata of PerlJO'YWlity. 395
resistance which the emergent message might discover,-according (for
example) as tMualiring or motor habits of thought might be predomi-
nant in one or another brain. The impulse which in the motor subject
might prompt to automatic writing, might in the tMualiftng subject
become the basis of a visual hallucination.
To come, then, to the actual fact now to be noted. " The spon-
taneous acts of the unconscious-self," says M. Janet, here meaning by
l'inconBcWn.t the entity to which· he baa given the name of LOOnore,
.. may also aaaume a very reasonable form, a form which, were it better
understood, might perhaps serve to explain certain cases of insanity.
Mme. B., during her somnambulism (i.e., LOOntine), had had a sort of
hysterical crisis; she was restless and noisy and I could not calm her.
Suddenly she stopped and said to me with terror, •Oh, who is talking
to me like that' it frightens me.' •No one is talking to you.'
•Yes I there on the left!' And she got up and tried to open a ward-
robe on her left hand, to see if some one was hidden there. •What
is it that you hear" I asked. •I hear on the left a voice which repeats,
" Enough! enough I be quiet; you are a nuisance.'" Assuredly the voice
which thus spoke was a reasonable one, for LOOntine was insupport-
able; but I had suggested nothing of the kind, and had had no idea
of iDapiring a hallucination of hearing. Another day LOOntine was
quite calm, but obstinately refused to answer a question which I asked.
Ag&in ahe heard with terror the same voice to her left, saying, •Come,
be sensible, you must auswer.' Thus the unconscious sometimes gave
her excellent advice."
And in effect, so soon as LOOnore, in her turn, was summoned into
communication, ahe accepted the responsibility of this counsel. "What
W88 it that happened," asked M. Janet, "when LOOntine was so
frightened' " "Oh, nothing j it was I who told her to keep quiet j I
_w that she was annoying you; I don't know why ahe was so
frightened."
Note the significance of this incident. Here we have got at the
root of a hallucination. We have not merely inferential but direct
evidence that the imaginary voice which terrified LOOntine proceeded
from a profounder stratum of consciousness in the same individual.
In what way, by the aid of what nervous mechanism, was the startling
monition conveyed' What are the laws of interrelation of these
psychical strata t Who ahall say what might be the lessons derivable
from another subject, with 80 psychical cleavage as facile as Mme. B's.,
and with intelligence enough for a self-analysis in which several
" selves" must combine t
I have spoken of LOOnore as "summoned into communication."
The way in which this is effected is again an instructive point. This
second somnambulic life is reached by a transition from the first BOm-
Digitized by Coogle
396 French Experiments on Strata of Per8O'1Wl,ity. (8u~
nambulic life closely resembling the transition by which the first
somnambulic life is reached from the life of every day. Just as lime.
R was sent by passes into a state of lethargy from which she emerged
as Leontine, so also Leontine in her turn was reduced by renewed
passes to a state of lethargy from which she emerged no longer as Leon-
tine, but as Leonore. This second awakening is slow and gradual, but
the personality which emerges is in one most important point superior
to either Leonie or Leontine. Alone among the subject's phases this
phase possesses the memory of every phase. Leonore, like Uontine,
knows the normal life of Leonie but distinguishes herself from Uonie, in
whom, it must be said, these subjacent personalities appear to take little
interest. But Leonore also remembers the life of Leontine,-condemns
her as noisy and frivolous, and is anxious not to be confounded with
her either. " Vous voyez bien que je ne suis pas cette bavarde, cette
folle i-noUB ne nous ressemblons pas du tout." And in fact Uontine's
own character, so far as it has yet been manifested, is worthy of
that profounder place in the personality which she seems to occupy.
Yet one further variation, and I end my brief rellUme of this com-
plex history. Leonore is liable to pass into a state which does not,
indeed, interrupt her chain of memory, but which removes her for a
time from the possibility of communiC&t~on with other minds. She
grows pale, she ceases to speak or to hear, her eyes, though still shut,
are turned heavenwards, her mouth smiles, and her face takes an
expression of beatitude.
This is plainly a state of so-called ecstasy i but it differs from the
ecstasy common in hysterical attacks in one capital point. Not only
is it remembered-indistinctly, perhaps-by Leonore, who describes
herself as having been dazzled by a light on the left side-but also it
. brings with it the most complex of all the chains of memory,-supple-
menting even Leonore's recollection on certain acts which ha\"e been
accomplished unconsciously by Leonore herself.
Here again there seems a confirmation of a thesis already hinted
at (Proceeding" Vol. III., p. 32, ikc.) to the effect that the state
of ecstasy, although generally associated with hysteria, or even 0CC11I'
ring as a stage in an epileptiform attack, must not therefore be assumed
to be in itself a morbid or degenerative condition. It is just as possible
that it may be in itself an elevated condition, but that the possibility
of entering it may be purchased by a perilous degree of nervous
instability.
Ecstasy is an extreme case of "hypertrophy of the attention."
It has been compared by Esquirol to a mental catalep'1l. by Ribot to
a mental contracture. The second seems the truer analogy. To catalepsy
wa might rather compare the somnambulic state of maximum sug-
gestibility, when the mind adopts and prolongs any idea which the
Digitized by Coogle
SappJemenlJ French Ewperi1'M'l/,ta on Strata of Per80'1ULlity. 397
operator suggests, just as in catalepsy the limbs maintain the attitude
in which the operator places them, or continue the action which he
imposes upon them. qn the other hand, ecstasy, which carries its,
subject into a region where suggestion from without is no longer
attended to, resembles the strong contracture of a limb which no
manipulation of the bystanders can resolve or modify.
This, however, is a comparison and nothing more. It is not at
present plain what connection exists between the mental state of
ecstasy and the muscular condition at the time. Ecstasy is sometimes
accompanied by catalepsy, but sometimes it seems to determine the
attitude of the limbs in a position not necessarily rigid, but to which,
if disturbed, they tend to recur. This point needs further inquiry;
forming, in fact, one case of the more general problem as to the relation,
in abnormal or hypnotic conditions, of muscular to mental phenomena..
But these are topics which would lead us too far afield. It
is the merit of experiments like those of Professor Janet that the
lessons to be drawn from them are not exhausted at the first scrutiny.
We sba.ll have to return again and again to his fertile researches; and
we may feel with satisfaction that there is no reason to fear that their
prolongation is proving in any way injurious to the "subject" who
varies so instructively from the ordinary constitution of mankind.
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
The subjoined scheme,-simplified from that given by Professor
Janet,-may enable the reader to follow the above paper with greater
ease. The shaded spaces indicate absence of consciousness.
~m
of the
joint life
of
Leonie
Leontine
lLeonore
Ordinary
;;1;$' Illi
waking /// //
, I / / I
life ' !, , I
Knowledge Emergence
lII!l
of Leonie: insomnam·
latent bulic life
Knowl~ge Knowledge Emergence
of UO~le & of. and
LoontlDe: Leontine: ecataay
latent latent
----
;;~11
Ordinary
waking
life
Emergence Knowledge
iusomnam. of Leonie:
bulic life latent
Knowledge Knowledge
of lof Leonie&
Leontine: IL~ontine :
latent latent
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
Jan. 25, 1889.] . P.residents AddreB8.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Jannary 25th, 1889.
399
The thirtieth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Westminster Town Ha.ll, on January 25th, 1889.
To PRESIDENT, PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, IN THE CHAIR.
Mr. T. Barkworth read a paper on "The Analogy between
Hypnotic Phenomena and Certain Experiences of the Normal
Consciousness."
The President delivered the following address :-
I.
In an address which I delivered six months ago I endeavoured to
give a brief survey of the work done by the Society during the six
years of its existence. But time did not a.llow me to deal adequately
with the whole subject, and one branch of our inquiry in particular,
which occupied an important pla.ce in the original view of the objec~
for which the Society was formed, I reserved for separate treatment.
I mean the investigation of the physical phenomena attributed by
Spiritualists to the agency of intelligences other than human. In
reserving this for separate treatment, I was influenced by the fact that
our action in this department has been subjected to a good deal of
criticism, public and private, in which, as I understand, some members
of our Society have taken part.
In noticing this criticism, my chief object is to explain the course
that we have adopted, not to refute any opponents. I have always
held that in so novel and difficult an investigation as that in which we
are engaged, our object should be to obtain as much criticism as possible,
and to extract from it thankfully all the instruction that we can, even '
though a good deal of it may seem to us to go wide of the mark.
The only criticism against which I am disposed to protest, is the·
judgment that, as we have now had this question before us for nearly
seven years, we ought to have come to a conclusion about it one way or
the other. I think that such a proposition is hasty and unreasonable,
whether the critic rea.lly means that we ought to have come
to a positive conclusion, or that we ought to have come to a negative
one. Taken in the former sense, I must be allowed to say that such a
demand implies a remarkable ignorance of the ordinaryrv-te and manner
of progress of scientific knowledge in any department. Considering the
enormous importance of the conclusion that a definite and measurable
2 D
Digitized by Coogle
