{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1santo_v_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Santo V Probable NDE 7695","mylang":"de"}
          	        Santo V Probable NDE 7695  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Santo V Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3955 Santo V Probable NDE 7695  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was involved in a street accident using a scooter.  By an inch, my head did not clash against an iron tube because I was wearing no helmet.  A woman was driving and I was sitting in the backseat.  My leg got trapped between the scooter and a car.  As I stood up, my leg bent and I realized I had an exposed fracture.  It was very painful.  At the hospital, I saw a person, like a vision.  She looked like the Virgin Mary, surrounded by a white light.  As she got closer and closer to me, I saw myself as a child, as if that were a movie, and then I saw myself as a teenager and as an adult, with friends and with women.  Chronologically, the first thing I saw was something that I should have seen last.  I saw myself with a woman in a garden.  Then my soul was lifted from the body and I came back to it.  I only remember that it seemed to be a very normal thing.  It was something so normal, even more so than eating, sleeping, or even breathing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  13/19/1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.         Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Street accident with a scooter, broken leg with exposed bone.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I have seen images like in a movie.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   In that condition, I couldn't think and was not awake.  However, I can remember what happened.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I had no awareness.  I could not choose or decide what to do

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I am not sure, when all of this happened.  I can't tell how much time elapsed.  I know that beside me, there were my parents and they were crying. I cannot tell.  To me that was a few seconds.  But I cannot tell, maybe it was more.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt pain before the experience, something devouring me from within, body and soul.  An evil, I can't describe.  As far as the vision I saw, it was different from how I see things in reality.  The vision was, I mean, a vision.  I wouldn't know how to say it, and the movie I saw as images unfolding like in a movie.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no hearing and the spoken word was totally absent.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The mother of Jesus

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The white light engulfing the image of the woman I saw. I believe she was the Virgin Mary

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.  It was the most natural thing of the world, like breathing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     But it's not easy to say whether they actually occurred.  How can one tell?  They were images, flashes of me as a child and teenager and as an adult, flashes of images.  Only one of them I can recollect well.  The first image I saw by chronological order should have been the last one: myself with a woman in a garden.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     A few flashes were so fast that I cannot tell, except the first one that is the last one I can remember well.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   religioso ma non troppo

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I quit going to mass and confession and sacraments.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   credo si, ma non mi reputo più cattolico anche se non mi sono tolto i sacramenti

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I believe in a soul and in God, but substantially I never met anybody who had this type of experience. Therefore, mine may have been just a delirium induced by the accident.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I did not hear voices I saw only images

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Mary the mother of Jesus, or at least I think that is who she was.  She looked like the images I see in churches.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     non saprei. credo di si.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I had not information in this regard, but maybe there is something.  I don't know.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The vision of the mother of Jesus

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I don't know, my life hasn't been easy

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Oh my, I believe so.  I saw that white light, the soul lifting from the body and coming back to it, I believe something exists.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     Again I don't know, my life hasn't been easy

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I think there is something we can call love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Specific instances, I have done very well.  I cannot discuss this here.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     but I won't elaborate on this.  But here is what I think.  When I seek an answer to life in life after death: that is wrong.  Do not seek.  I did well or I did badly, eventually God has left me with free will.  But there is always a force regulating the events.  This force you cannot demonstrate it, neither can you investigate it by double blind experiments or the like.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't think so, none.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Because it was so natural to me, the experience came across as natural as breathing.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The pain to my leg was killing me inside. Then nobody believed what I saw.  Everybody thought I had a great trauma or hallucinations while in a condition of shock.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real because with the eyes of the soul I have seen, they are things that did not happen so I cannot understand why I have seen what I have seen.  Cognitive psychology related explanations cannot even come close to explain that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't know. I cannot understand this question.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't know.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Too many questions.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1santo_v_probable_nde.html