{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sanz_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sanz Probable NDE 3561","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sanz Probable NDE 3561  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sanz Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1599 Sanz Probable NDE 3561  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was in the course of the surgical operation after the anesthesia, normally I shouldn't have felt anything. (Previously I already had four surgeries.) Suddenly I felt a very strong pain in the chest, as if my heart was taken off from my body and at the same time, a continuous sharp sound like a buzzer. Then the pain stopped as well as the sound, and I was sliding down a kind of black hall with a light at the bottom looking as a cotton material or steam appearance (difficult to describe). I didn't see any presences but heard voices as if several people were whispering together (male and female), 'Here she is coming, she is coming.' Suddenly another voice, a male voice, much louder and with an authoritarian tone said, 'No, it's too early.' That's it.

When I woke up from my surgery, I was sick and my back was very painful. The day after the medic brought me to the exams room to have a long heart examination. The memory of my experience was very clear in my mind but I dared not tell people. I was afraid people thought I was crazy. Once I met a friend who told me that the phenomenon was well known.

My experience is much shorter than the ones I read on the NDE sites but I can tell it still is very clear in my memory. I apologize for my English.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was pregnant (seventy-five days) but the medics had not detected it was an ectopic pregnancy (in spite of hemorrhages and numerous medical exams) till I was taken in emergency to the hospital and had a surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   At the start.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the start.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The space was restricted to the tunnel.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The field of vision was very restricted, so was clarity, colors (only black and white) and the perception of solidness was inexistent.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Ability to recognize source of sound, the first voices sounded as if they were far and the second one as if it was nearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was sliding along a black tunnel with a bright light at the end.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Heard but not seen.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The end of the tunnel was full of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unpleasant at the start due to the horrible pain I felt, then a strange feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes From that experience my way to cope with life has changed. I felt more confident in facing life's ups and downs. I was able to face troubles with more courage and force. My view over the world changed too and I think my sensitivity regarding mankind's misery raised.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     In 1996, so twelve years later, I experienced one night in full countryside what is called a UFO's approach.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        At that time it was not meaningful to me. However the experience disturbed me and I was thinking over it a lot.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me several years to share this experience with close friends. It is thanks to the first friend that I heard it was quite frequent. The people to whom I told my experience were not influenced in any way, just puzzled or confident in medical explanations as anesthesia reactions or psychological reasons.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Through my thoughts over it I decided that everything was due to the fact I certainly woke up during the surgery (problem of anesthesia) and the voices I heard were those of the nurses and surgeons and medics trying to reanimate me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Whatever the reasons my experience was real but I still wonder about the cause.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Twenty-four years after I still think over that experience and I am still willing to discover other's experiences but I have not progressed at all regarding the cause of it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       As I experienced a UFO's approach and read a book regarding a U.S. survey about NDE people and UFO witnesses (quite interesting), I think you may ask people about a possible UFO experiences.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sanz_probable_nde.html