{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 1672 1969","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_25_january_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 January 25 1889","mylang":"de"}
Jan. 25, 1889.] . P.residents AddreB8.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Jannary 25th, 1889.
399
The thirtieth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Westminster Town Ha.ll, on January 25th, 1889.
To PRESIDENT, PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, IN THE CHAIR.
Mr. T. Barkworth read a paper on "The Analogy between
Hypnotic Phenomena and Certain Experiences of the Normal
Consciousness."
The President delivered the following address :-
I.
In an address which I delivered six months ago I endeavoured to
give a brief survey of the work done by the Society during the six
years of its existence. But time did not a.llow me to deal adequately
with the whole subject, and one branch of our inquiry in particular,
which occupied an important pla.ce in the original view of the objec~
for which the Society was formed, I reserved for separate treatment.
I mean the investigation of the physical phenomena attributed by
Spiritualists to the agency of intelligences other than human. In
reserving this for separate treatment, I was influenced by the fact that
our action in this department has been subjected to a good deal of
criticism, public and private, in which, as I understand, some members
of our Society have taken part.
In noticing this criticism, my chief object is to explain the course
that we have adopted, not to refute any opponents. I have always
held that in so novel and difficult an investigation as that in which we
are engaged, our object should be to obtain as much criticism as possible,
and to extract from it thankfully all the instruction that we can, even '
though a good deal of it may seem to us to go wide of the mark.
The only criticism against which I am disposed to protest, is the·
judgment that, as we have now had this question before us for nearly
seven years, we ought to have come to a conclusion about it one way or
the other. I think that such a proposition is hasty and unreasonable,
whether the critic rea.lly means that we ought to have come
to a positive conclusion, or that we ought to have come to a negative
one. Taken in the former sense, I must be allowed to say that such a
demand implies a remarkable ignorance of the ordinaryrv-te and manner
of progress of scientific knowledge in any department. Considering the
enormous importance of the conclusion that a definite and measurable
2 D
Digitized by Coogle
400 Thilrtieth Ge'M'1'al Meeting. [Jan. 25,
part of the changes that take place in the world of our sensible experi.
ence is referable to the action of unembodied intelligences,-considering
the revolution that the scientific establishment of this conclusion would
make in the view of the universe which the progress of modern science
has hitherto tended to make prevalent-it is not too much to say that
if the undivided labour of the best scientific intellects in the world were
employed for a generation in the investigation that established this as a
scientific truth, their labours might be regarded as unusually fruitful
If, on the other hand, the critics' real meaning is that we ought before
this to have arrived at a negative conclusion, I should reply that we
may have been rash in commencing our enterprise, and endeavouring
to bring under orderly scientific cultivation this wild region, in which
vulgar credulity and superstition are so rampant; but that, having once
undertaken the task, it would show deplorable levity in us to abandon it,
until the strong reasons that induced us to undertake it-reasons set
forth in our original statement of objects-have been shown by further
experience to be invalid. And this, in my opinion at least, is by no
means the case. My view of the evidence for the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism has, indeed, been importantly modified during the last six
years; but the weightiest part of the reasons that induced me to
undertake the investigation of them still remain weighty.
In short, holding as I do that we had good ground for declaring the
question of the genuineness of s~led Spiritualistic phenomena an open
one, and worthy of serious and systematic investigation, I think we
should be very slow to close the question, until we have obtained
decisive arguments, either for a positive, or for a negative conclusion.
At any rate I think we can fairly claim that our prolonged suspense
of judgment on this question is not due to any inert shrinking from the
labour of investigation, or any timid avoidance of the responsibility of
the decision and of the attacks to which it might subject us. I remember
that in one of the satirical references to our proceedings that occur
from time to time in the novels of the day, the President of the Society
for Psychical Research was introduced as saying only two words, "I
doubt." The satire seems plausible enough, when attention is directed
only to our dealings with Spiritualism: but it should be bome in
mind that the time of our investigators has been largely occupied with
other inquiries which have not ended in doubt. During the six yesrs
of our existence, while one committee has pronounced decisively in
favour of telepathy, on the basis of evidence requiring 1,200 octa\"o
pages to set it forth, another committee has pronounced no less
decisively against the claim of marvellous powers for Madame Blavatsky,
which the Theosophists urged on our attention. Against the charge
of feebleness and indecision, therefore, we have both II. positi\"e and a
negative instance to bring forward. And I venture to think that
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] P'l'68ident'8 .AddreB8. 401
whoever will examine the work of our investigators in either case-
whether or not he may agree with the conclusions arrived at-will
admit that they entered on the inquiries with the utmost attainable
openness of mind, spared no pains in studying closely and carefully the
evidence offered, and having arrived at a conclusion, positive in one
case, negative in the other, declared such conclusions without hesita.-
tion or reserve.
This comparison reminds me of another misunderstanding which I
should like to remove. It is sometimes thought that those of us who
declared in favour of telepathy thereby became hostile to the Spiritual-
istic hypothesis i that having once identified ourselves with telepathy,
we have a morbid attachment to the idea, and are disposed to force it
on phenomena that more naturally suggest a Spiritualistic explanation.
In truth, there is not one of us who would not feel ten times more
interest in proving the action of intelligences other than those of living
men, than in proving communication of human minds in an abnormal
way, if only we had as decisive grounds for the former conclusion as
we believe ourselves to have for the latter. But before we introduce,
in explanation of any phenomena, a cause unknown to science, we hold
ourselves bound to try all that can be done in the way of explaining the
phenomena by known causes; and as we regard telepathy as established,
we are bound to treat it for this purpose like anyother known cause.
It is not, however, with telepathy that we are chiefly concerned, in
considering how far the physical phenomena of Spiritualism are
explicable by known causes i but with an agency of a more familiar
kind: the deception conscious or unconscious of human beings. In
the original statement of the objects of this Society the widespread
operation of this cause was expressly recognised; and it is to the
peculiarly elusive quality of this agency, and the indefinite variety of
the forms it is capable of assuming, that the special difficulty of the
investigation and the characteristics of·the scientific method appropriate
to it are mainly due. In view of this, I recommended in my first
address to the Society, as the result not of a priori reasoning but
of long experience, that we should as much as possible keep aloof from
paid mediums. This rule has been, in the main, adhered to by our
investigators. An exception was made, under strong pressure, in the
case of Eglinton; but the experience obtained in this exceptional
case was not such as to encourage any further deviation from the rule.
. But even when we confine our attention to phenomena where no
pecuniary motives to fraud can come in, the necessity of a methodical
and rigorous exclusion of fraud is not lessened. For even where
personal knowledge renders it impossible for us to attribute conscious
fraud to a supposed medium, it cannot exclude the possibility of
unconscious deception. I have evidence of such deception having
2 D 2
Digitized by Coogle
402 Thirtieth Genera), Meeti'1l1/. [Jan. 25,1889.
actually occurred in cases in which the moral character of the medium
rendered it in the highest degree improbable that it waS conscious, and
we have evidence of a different kind to show that supposed mediums
are often in an abnormal physiological condition, which may not im·
probably be accompanied-we have positive reason for thinking that it
is sometimes accompanied-with a tendency to unconscious deception.
Apart from this, the value of an in1J68tigtUor'. wtimany to the
genuineness of such marvels stands or falls with the completeness ofhis
exclusion of possible deception. If he has not accomplished this the
investigator has done nothing, however high the medium's character
may be, however morally improbable that he should deceive; if the
experimenter cannot show us that the conditions of his experiment
exclude deception, deception may be still an improbable explanation,
but he has added nothing to its improbability; he has simply left it
where it was, depending entirely on the character of the medium j his
experimental apparatus is, therefore, without result, and might as well
have been dispensed with.
I lay stress on this, because the main difficulty of our investigators
has been to find private mediums, manifesting phenomena prim4/ociA
inexplicable, who are willing to submit to the rigorous conditions
and repeated experiments which are absolutely required, if the experi-
ments are to be worth anything at all. This unwillingness is very
natural, and we entirely understand it. The conditions inevitably
suggest suspicion; the repetition of the experiments suggests that the
suspicion is of an obstinate kind: the private medium, being of un-
blemished character and honourable life, accustomed to receive full and
ungrudging confidence from all persons with whom he or she associates,
naturally dislikes and resents being treated as a suspicious character.
The difficulty thus caused is great, but we still hope that it may not be
found insuperable. I fully admit-indeed I would earnestly contend-
that it is the investigator's duty to use his utmost efforts to minimise
the difficulty by courtesy and tact, and by avoiding anything in language
or manner that can aggravate the suggestion of suspiciousness which
his method of investigation inevitably involves.
But something may be done to remove the difficulty on the other
side, if it can only be generally understood that whatever seems offen-
sive in the conditions imposed by our investigators is due not to any
quality of their individual disposition, moral or intellectual, but to the
method which they think the scientific aim of the inquiry renders
necessary. And the main desire that has prompted these remarks bas
been by making this point clear, to diminish, if possible, the obstacles
to this part of our investigation; in which I personally take a stroDg
interest.
Digitized by Coogle
