{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandrine_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandrine W NDE 6932","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandrine W NDE 6932  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandrine W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3478 Sandrine W NDE 6932  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went to the toilet due to violent abdominal pain. I had a bad diarrhea, felt really badly, and my head was turning.  After giving birth to two children without epidural, I can say that the pain was much worse than delivery contractions. After I emptied myself, I got up from the toilet and wanted go out of the room, to call my partner of that time, to help me. It was absolutely important that he would bring me to the hospital and call my parents. I had the impression that the pain would kill me.  I got up and BOOM, I fell and immediately the pain disappeared. 

Then I sat up and then stood up, except that my body was still lying lifeless on the floor between the toilet and the corridor. I felt good and had no pain anymore. At the time, my friend was living in a charming little apartment.  The kitchen was at one side of the corridor (approximately 10 meters/ 30 feet) and the living room at the other end, and in between the toilet and the bedroom, all with a wooden floor.  

I saw myself on the floor.  At the beginning, this was super experience. I went to the kitchen, I saw the dishes waiting to be cleaned, I rounded the table and looked through the window, and the apartment gave view to the courtyards. I don't know how long of a time this took. 

I listened to the neighbors, saw them walking through the courtyard, then I lifted my head and saw the pearl grey sky coming through, between the buildings and there I felt that I could leave, mounting in the sky and I started to panic. I turned, and went around the table again.  I ran into the corridor, hopping over my body, came into the living room, my partner was standing near the window.  He was smoking a cigarette, I was shaking him, but he wasn't seeing nor hearing nor feeling me. Then I returned to my still lifeless body and at this moment, I heard steps that made the wooden floor creak: it was my friend. When he saw my body, he rushed to my body ignoring me (my spirit that I could visualize as myself without a body, in fact there were two me's!) 

He knelt down and started to shake me and there, my bodiless me, dove back into my body and then the pain came back!!! He brought me to the hospital, my mother arrived at this moment and I didn't say anything to anybody. The doctors concluded it was a blackout because of my abdominal pains which were caused by a bowel disorder.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness  syncope suite à une douleur extreme lors d'un épisode de diarrhée aiguë (je sais ce n'est pas très glamour )  Other syncope suite à une douleur extreme lors d'un épisode de diarrhée aiguë (je sais ce n'est pas très glamour )  Falling while at the toilet and in shock I opened the door. My body was found between the toilet and the corridor with a bump on my head.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As I explained above, I could look and see everything as usual, dirty dishes, interior of the apartment, the neighbors, my friend who was smoking near the window (which he confirmed, when he later told me that he didn't hear me falling, as he was smoking at the window, while observing the neighbor‘s servant arriving.)  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more conscious about death. When I looked through the windows, the sky attracted my eyes. I knew that even at 15 I would or could die. At the same time I knew that I could try to do something not to die, I kind of had a choice.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately after I left my body, after falling, and until I returned into my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think I was able to see at 360° and analyze things at the same moment I saw them.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    All noises were clearer and I knew where they came from and what they meant. They were sharper and each one seemed more isolated from the other.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The neighbors and my ex-partner.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In the beginning I felt pleasure, I didn't feel bad anymore and I experienced something incredible. But then very fast: anguish. Fear of dying.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When I looked at the sky I felt that I could jump through the window and nothing would happen to me, that I would float and that there would be a follow-up, but I preferred to call for help and stay close to my body while waiting for help.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   en conflit avec mes croyances plutôt attirée par le Judaïsme croyante mais avec des doutes récurrents

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Jewish

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     je ne sais pas vu que je n'ai pas vu D.cela veut il dire pour autant qu'il n'existe pas ou qu'il existe? ou que chaque âme et le propre D.de son corps? et que l'âme, l'esprit et une force à elle même une force autonome ou je sais pas quoi?

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Without any masters degree I am able to relieve physical pain just by touching people, but this causes physical pain to me. I have flashes when I see certain things, but I'm not searching to verify if what I saw is true. I hear and see strange things almost daily, but I cannot explain them and I don't try to understand.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I hear and see things, I can relieve pain in others with my hands.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The choice to try and continue life, or to die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I didn't see God. Does this mean that He doesn't exist or is He existing? Or that each soul is the God of its body? And that the soul, spirit is in itself an autonomous power or something else?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandrine_w_nde.html