{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandra V NDE 22271","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra V NDE 22271  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2349 Sandra V NDE 22271  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember that it was pretty early in the morning. I was three and a half months pregnant at the time so I liked to sleep late due to fatigue caused by pregnancy. I remember that I had to take my brother in law to work and he had to be there by 8 am and I had to hurry home to take my nephew to school. I was on my way back home to pick up my nephew after dropping off my brother in law at work and I was going probably around sixty miles per hour when the accident occurred. I was trying to put a CD in and the CD I wanted was on the floor so I reached down to get it. When I looked back up I was going off the road and I remember seeing some type of animal. It looked kind of like a dog but it wasn't. I tried to get back on to the road completely, I only had half a tire off the road but still I was trying to get straight. When I turned the wheel to left just a little the car started going out of control, which we later found out was due to a malfunction with the car that my brother in law had not told me about. So when I would steer to the left a little the car would jerk completely to the left. So I then steered to the right and a first it would not turn and then it just completely changed direction.

I then turned the wheel to the left again and when I did so that time is when I knew I was going to die. The car started flipping. At first I could feel all the jolting going on and I remember thinking, ‘Oh my God, I don't want to die I’m scared!’ And then I guess I just closed my eyes because I started seeing a darkness that was filled with all types of memories, things that I had not thought about in a long time and some very important times in my life. At that moment I also saw a vision of my daughter that at that time I was not far enough along to be medically told I was having a girl, but I knew that I was having a baby girl and I saw her, I saw what she would look like and everything. I then remember seeing my husband’s face and that was the last thing I saw in the darkness. It was like I opened my eyes next but when I opened them I wasn't me in my body anymore, it was me looking at my body from the other side of the windshield.

I couldn't hear or feel anything anymore and all the while it was like time just slowed down and every second felt like such a long time. I remember seeing myself just sitting in the driver’s seat not moving at all, not screaming, and not doing anything! I just remember myself being so lifeless with such a blank look on my face. My eyes were closed and the only time a part of my body moved was when the car jerked one way or the other. Then it was as if I closed my eyes again because I was so scared I knew I was dying! I don't remembered what happened next except that I felt a pulling and all the sudden I could feel the car jolting again and I opened my eyes and all I saw was colors spinning around me and then I saw a huge brown line.

That brown line ended up being the tree that I hit upside down and that flipped me upright. I don't know how long it was from when I hit the tree until I opened my eyes to get out of the car. I remember my head hurt so badly and I was trying so hard to get out and walk. The next thing I remember is being on the person's doorstep whose yard I flipped into ringing a doorbell but nobody was home. Then I was climbing over their barbed wire fence to get back to the road as a lady slowed down in her van and tried to help me. I don't remember how I got to the doorstep or how I got all the way to the fence. The fence was about one hundred and fifty feet from the house. The lady took me back to my brother in law’s job since I was about two miles away from it. When I got there, I remember his bosses giving me ice for my head and him come running out and then we were in a truck and he was going to drive the car out and back to the jobsite.

When we arrived at the scene of the accident he got out of the truck, as did I, I just kept apologizing to him, and he looked at the car and started freaking out saying he had to get me to the hospital. We drove to his house so someone could take me to the hospital and I went into shock. I remember one of their friends drove me to the hospital and when I arrived someone had called to police and they sent an ambulance and the paramedic had apparently told the people at the hospital that they expected a dead-on-arrival and they couldn't find the body. I then showed up at the hospital, I remember nurses, and doctors were waiting on me to get there just in case I survived and was on my way. After that, I just remember people coming to touch me because I was a miracle and angels were with me that morning. I don't know the injuries I sustained from the accident except probable rib injuries and head injuries because I was pregnant so the doctor wouldn't touch me. At first, I was fine and didn't feel a thing except my head hurting and I returned a couple hours after being discharge because I could not breath I was in so much pain. But no medical tests or whatever were ever don't to see what was wrong with me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/28/07

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I was in a car accident that paramedics did not believe I would live from.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I don't really think I had a form, but I was told by police that everything was damaged on the car including the roof of the car crushed on my head but half of the windshield (which was the driver’s side) and the driver’s side window were the only ones not shattered or broken. Somewhat like whatever my form was protecting my body in some way.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was like I was completely conscious and alert but my body was lifeless.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like time was moving at such a slow pace almost like it stood still.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was like the serenity caused it to be so quiet and calm. I couldn't hear anything.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The only being I saw was before the accident and it was that dog like creature, but it’s almost like I feel like someone else was with me when all that happened.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I remember as I was changing from seeing all my memories when I opened my eyes at first there was a light until I saw my lifeless body.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My senses were deadened. I couldn't hear, feel, smell, or taste anything. But when I was looking at my body I could see every detail though it was somewhat foggy or cloudy.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt scared but at the same time so serene.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I just knew that I was dying. But when I woke up and lived I couldn't help but know. I can’t explain it I just know that something or someone told me I couldn't go to heaven because I had something important to do here on Earth. There is something important that I have to do, the person just didn't tell me what it is!

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Somehow when I was seeing the visions of my life I was able to see my daughter that I was pregnant with and did not yet know was a girl.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew I was going to have a daughter. The baby I was pregnant with. I knew was going to be a girl because I saw her!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I just know that I felt like something was pulling me back to my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know that it’s very real to have an experience like this and I know that God has me here for a reason and I didn't die on that day for a reason. I believe in God a lot more now than I ever have.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It’s hard to describe everything in words. The fear of what happened causes me to have anxiety attacks almost every time I talk about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always been able to dream things that were going to occur in the future but it would only happen on very rare instances and it would be things that would happen years later. But since the accident, I have dreams like that on a regular basis about things that are going to happen in a day or a week, etc. And there are times when I just know that something is going to happen involving certain things. I don't know how I know, I just do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is no best part except that I am alive and here to see my children. The worst part is the fact that I have been so traumatized by this accident.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They just don't understand. Some don't believe me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Only when I dream of dying. I always dream or have a deep fear of having a heart attack and I dream of all types of scenarios where I see myself having a heart attack and dying.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This experience has been horrific on my life but somehow when I think of the accident it was so serene even though I was scared.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_v_nde.html