{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_v_nde_4775.html","mytitle":"Sandra V NDE 4775","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra V NDE 4775  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2420 Sandra V NDE 4775  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was taken into the hospital room and laid on a table. My limbs were separately going numb. I was trying to say my children's names. I wanted desperately to see my three children. My speech had slowed until I could hardly say their names. My conscious state of mind was leaving me. I was left on a table and everyone left the room.

I awoke and I was looking down over my body. I remember thinking, 'I don't see a white light like I had heard that people saw.' I was at peace. It was as though I was in the clouds and floating away. The higher I got I felt the same peaceful feeling. Then I looked back at my body and was desperately trying to make one limb move, my hand first. I could move my fingers and then I was trying to make my feet and legs move back and forth. Slowly my body started to respond. Then it was as if I lost all consciousness and I don't remember anymore until I awoke. The nurse was standing over me. She said, 'It's alright. You're in the hospital. You had gone into cardiac arrest.' I could not breathe through my nose. There were monitors all around me. The doctor came in and asked, 'Why did you try to kill yourself? You had over the times the level of aspirin in your system that it takes to kill yourself.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 2008'
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    had overdosed on aspirin  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I was in cardiac and respiratory failure  I had a restraining order out on my husband for threatening to harm me. I was in a state on extreme fear and had been for several months. I had to go to another state to get farther away from him.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was totally conscious when I was looking over my body. I knew myself; I knew the feeling of peace was real.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt as though I was going further up from my body.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound. I was as alone and peaceful.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     it was like i was in the sky to me. clear,not sunny or cloudly. just peaceful

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peace. Not conscious of any evil.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was taught to fear God. I do not fear him now. Nor do I fear another person. I found the one who could take life or give it and I was not afraid of Him.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist belief

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know longer go to the churches that preach fear of God. I talk with God by myself.  I talk to Him and tell him how I feel and I tell Him how much I love Him. He is with me constantly.  I associate with positive people.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   relationship with God as my friend

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know longer go to the churches that preach fear of God. I talk with God by myself.  I talk to Him and tell him how I feel and I tell Him how much I love Him. He is with me constantly.  I associate with positive people.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I no longer allow previous partners or family members to control me or my actions. If a person seems to be bad for a relationship, I discontinue it. I focus on my children and my grandchildren and not on my problems. I am not ever depressed to the state of wanting to die.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was looking down on myself. my body was becoming totally numb, one limb at a time. I was not afraid in this experience. I was in a peaceful space. It was a good feeling but I remember I didn't want to be there. I had to try to make my limbs move so I could try to make my body come back to me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Years ago I have had only few of these but I dreamed things happened that later took place.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I saw no light but somehow I have realized I don't have to fear death or God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About three weeks later I related the experience to a friend. She said if I did not remember having a tube in my throat it was probably all in my mind.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt very close to God. I have changed in my thoughts and feelings about my life. My life is happier for the experience. I tell my children how much they mean to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I had poisoned my body and was taking my life not on purpose, but I know I want to live as long as possible to enjoy every minute of my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have stopped taking nerve pills and pain pills and anything that alters the mind.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would really like to know if this was a near death experience or something in my mind.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_v_nde_4775.html