{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandra Z NDE 22555","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra Z NDE 22555  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2833 Sandra Z NDE 22555  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had sudden severe chest pain while sitting on a table next to my father.  My little sister was sitting on my lap.  I asked Dad for a drink of his soda, because my chest hurt.  The chest pain became unbearable, so I leaned back to stretch out my chest muscles. Then I passed out.

Instantly, I was standing behind myself. I saw my dad jump up and I saw my own body leaning back in the chair.  I saw my little sister fly off my lap into the counter and into the person sitting in front of me. On the floor to my left, there was a little kids' block with the letter A on it, and as I watched myself faint, I could see that my body, or my head, WAS going to hit that block. I thought, ‘That is going to hurt!’ Next, my dad was on top of me, smacking and shaking me. I came back into my body. When I looked up and saw my dad, I reached behind my head and there was the block.  At that time, I could only cry, because I was so confused, having no real knowledge of these things or of God. There is no way anyone can tell me that this did not happen. I was a innocent child. Much later, I told my father the truth, and he understood completely. My father and my daughter have had their own experiences.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    chest pain   sudden severe chest pain sat a table next to my father with my little sister sitting on my lap ask dad for a drink of his soda because my chest hurt chest pain became unbearable leaned back to stretch the muscles

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    I felt very peaceful, except I was concerned about my sister and I knew the block was going to hurt my head when I landed on it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I wasn't aware of several people in the room. I was not in pain or scared at the moment of the event, and I was aware I was watching myself and the room. I am very sure of what happened.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   The way it happened, time made sense. Like, my heart just stopped, and I stood right up and stepped back directly behind, and close to, myself.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Mostly just thoughts. No unusual sounds. I did hear my dad yell my name, and I heard the thuds of my sister hitting the counter.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I had no religious understanding at all at that point in my life.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt no pain. I had my visual senses, and I could hear sound. I felt anticipation about my head hitting the block, and was thinking that my mom was going to make me go back home, because she would think my dad wasn't taking good care of me. But also, I felt at peace within myself.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Concern, but really just knowing that it should hurt if, and when, my head hit.  I was not floating, but I didn't really feel like I had any weight.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Hitting my head on a block and knowing I would have a knot on my head later.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was confused. I had never heard of such a thing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Even though I'm unsatisfied because I have a need to understand it better, I am sure that there's more than most of us know.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few people were helped by hearing about my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I never had anything like that happen to me again, but I was with my daughter when she had hers.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have never been so open about it, but I hope that I can find out about what I don't understand – maybe I can find that out here.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Very thorough.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_z_nde.html