{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandra J Probable NDE 7588","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra J Probable NDE 7588  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3890 Sandra J Probable NDE 7588  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself in a dark room. I was moving but not walking. I began to see pictures of people in my life, like in a slide show. Click, click, next picture.  I saw my friend's faces, my family, and then I saw my kid's faces.  I made myself stop moving. I suddenly became aware of my situation.  I saw ahead of me, a white light that was so bright.   I remember thinking, 'Oh no! I can't go there, that will be the end of my life.  My energy, my life force will leave me. I need to get back to my kids’. I realized I was in this dark hallway or tunnel that lacked walls.

Then I saw hands, hundreds of hands and arms reaching for me trying to touch me or grab me. I was now aware I had arms and legs again.  I tucked my arms into my chest so they couldn't reach me. I was scared. 'Why did they want me?'  I thought. 'I need to get back, but how?'  I concentrated trying to use my senses to find a way back.  I searched for something onto which I could mentally grab.  Then I heard something like a voice. I thought, 'I need to concentrate on that sound, what was that sound?' I tried so hard to hear it again, but it was so far away.  'What was it saying?' Then I heard buzzing like a thousand bees buzzing at the same time.  It was drowning out the sound and voice.  But I kept concentrating and then I heard the sound clear as day, 'SANDY!' It was my name being called. 

I immediately became conscious, sat straight up and threw up all over the kitchen floor.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  aug 1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function).   I had a history of fainting or blacking out for unknown reasons. I was at a friend’s house, and had just finished dinner. We smoked pot after dinner, and were walking across the room to go outside.  The last thing I remember is saying, 'OMG, I don't feel good I'm going to pass out.'  My friend later told me that I fell off his back deck.  He caught me in midair and sat me down on his kitchen floor.  I was unconscious, so I fell backward hitting my head on the floor. He said I began what looked like a grand-mal seizure that lasted a couple of minutes.  Then my body went totally limp and I stayed unconscious.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I became panicked when I realized I was leaving and may not make it back to take care of my children.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized I had kids left behind that needed me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I lost awareness of time or feeling or life.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was sitting eating dinner with a friend then walking in the kitchen.  In my experience I was alone in a pitch dark room my body just moving.  I had no feeling of body or weight or pain, no memory of anything or where I was at the time, like in another world.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was sitting eating dinner with a friend then walking in the kitchen.  In my experience I was alone in a pitch dark room my body just moving.  I had no feeling of body or weight or pain, no memory of anything or where I was at the time, like in another world.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was floating through a tunnel-like, extremely dark room.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I don't know who they were.  I just saw their arms and hands trying to reach me in the dark tunnel: like trapped souls.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An extremely white light but it didn't hurt your eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I was just calm, floating weightless, and then I became panicked, scared and resolute on coming back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I became aware that the light at the end of the tunnel meant my life as I know it would be over, and my life force would be taken from my body and I would become one with the energy/white light and join all the other souls.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My past flashed before me, out of my control.     I saw faces of friends and family.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I realized if I went further I couldn't come back and I stopped moving.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I saw my children's faces in the slide show of seeing my past life and gasped ‘oh no my kids I can’t leave them behind’.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was unsure about my faith questioning my faith

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I do not believe in a god at all. I think people feel like they need to believe because its what they were taught and fear of not believing what would happen..

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I wasnt sure what I believed in. I was raised catholic and had been a church goer until age 21. I stopped going after my dad died.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I valued other people’s feelings more after the event.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     life force energy being taken from our human form

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I feel that there is something there definitely but I wasnt ready to go

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I felt the light was life forces of other people who crossed the line

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life. I feel connections with people, my intuitiveness became more heightened. I could sense things. I have dreams where I make connections with people who have passed on and talk to them. I feel like I am being guided in a way but not towards a meaningful purpose, like every time I get into difficult situations someone is pulling me out at the last minute.     Moderate changes in my life. I feel connections with people, my intuitiveness became more heightened. I could sense things. I have dreams where I make connections with people who have passed on and talk to them. I feel like I am being guided in a way but not towards a meaningful purpose, like every time I get into difficult situations someone is pulling me out at the last minute.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel closer to some and not to others. I stopped letting a lot of people’s opinions worry me or bother me. I just don't feel the need to have turmoil in my life. I just want to do what I like to do, see what I want to see and go where I want to go.  But first I know I have to get my children set in their path first.  This life I'm living is lived once, I may get recycled but I won't remember it so just enjoy what you have and love those that deserve it and not to worry about the small stuff.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can think about someone and then look at my phone and they call me, I know immediately if someone near me is about to get hurt and I immediately avert it.  When I don't, the accident happens and I always say, ‘Why didn't I trust my feelings?’ I have vivid conversations with my dad, who passed, have dreamed plane crashes that happened. The list continues.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I could make a choice: stay or go back.  The hands and arms I saw reaching for me has been brain-wracking for me, are they trapped souls trying to come back with me?  Are they evil? What were they?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only a few people. I was afraid to tell people. Everyone I knew was religious and I was afraid they would make fun of me. Tell me I was dreaming. I know I wasn't. But when I finally told people they listened and we discussed an alien connection and life after death. We discussed we are recycled souls that get put into earthly bodies. Maybe some female souls get put into men's bodies and vice versa and always having that feeling they were in the wrong body.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about a bright light and they saw God.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was afraid of it. Like a secret you can't share about yourself.  I feared the hands and arms I saw?  Was that hell?  What did this all mean?  I had to sort through my feelings and deal with this mentally so I could get on with my life. Did life mean anything? Are we guinea pigs put into different bodies to see how we do this time around?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     If it was a dream I would of forgotten details by now...it is just as vivid I can still feel the emotions.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am calm about death, I just don't want to go before I am ready, until I have completed my tasks by making sure my children are set in their path in life.  I am very careful now not to do anything too risky that could hasten my time: I may not have a choice next time.  I may not have a reason to come back.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None that I can think of right now.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_j_probable_nde.html