{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_e_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Sandra E NDE-like 9460","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra E NDE-like 9460  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra E NDE-like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like;STE  						5085 Sandra E NDE-like 9460  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    It was June 1977. I was outside reading in lawn chair and I decided to practice my meditation. I was 6 month pregnant and realized that while I meditated, the baby didn’t move. 

  After having baby, I still practiced meditation. I became aware of a very noisy crowd of people, even though we lived on 2 acres and no close neighbors at the time. It was so noisy that I sat up and opened my eyes. I realized there were thousands of entities coming out of the nearby forest. They were blue, energy forms and the closer they got, the more they took on human form.  I could see them clearly. There was an energy veil that moved constantly. It’s a very strong energy force, that the  entities weren’t allowed to come through. Although I could hear them all talking at the same time, the closer they got the more I understood each individual. They knew I could hear them.  It was so noisy and they kept coming. 

  I finally moved into the house because they wouldn’t shut up. I went back into the meditative state.  I left my body, which I had done once before.  I knew what was happening and I wasn’t afraid. I went through ceiling and up into the blackness of space.  I saw all the stars.  There was one star, in particular, that shone brightest. I focused on that star wondering why it was so bright. In an instant the star and I raced together.  The star stopped in front of me.  It was the brightest light I’d ever seen.  I was surrounded by unconditional love that permeated through everything.  Then a tunnel formed. 

  There was a presence of a being.  Telepathically, I was told that the being was "the guardian." It had no gender.  In fact, I learned there is no gender on other side.  We are all equal and have talents.  We can do things over there we can’t do here. 

  I experienced infinity.  We don’t die. Infinity can’t be explained it has to be experienced. I learned our vocabulary is vague, so the light explained in terms I would understand.  All this information came in at the same time, which is hard to explain as there wasn’t any linear time like here. I could see things clearer and sharper; we learn skills there just like we go to school here. We learn to levitate.  We can go anywhere instantaneously. 

  The children who cross over to the other side are always watched over; no fences or no barriers.  We are all safe.  It is HOME. The guardian also let me know I could go through at any time as we all have that capability. It asked me if I was ready to go through.  I thought about my children and what my Mom and kids would find when they got home.  There would be an empty shell of a person that was their Mother. At that instant, I thought that the light withdrew and I was slammed back into my body. I call those crash landings because they actually are slightly painful when the body jolts awake.   I have never forgotten this experience. It has made it very difficult to live on this planet all these years knowing what we really can do and where we come from. Back in 1977 no one talked about these things for fear of being labeled as “crazy.” It was many years until I finally told a therapist what had happened. 

  I’m not afraid to die, and I have stayed on earth mainly because of family.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1977  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Deep meditative state  Other Can’t explain it, possibly stopped breathing?  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I remember feeling my earthly emotions like fear, anxiety when I wondered what would happen to my kids if I wasn’t in my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes, trust me, the experience is nothing but clarity, alertness and full consciousness. More information comes through than anywhere on this plain.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time, which is odd because there wasn’t any time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There wasn’t any linear time.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have worn glasses since I was 13, everything was more vivid and sharper it’s like I didn’t need to really see it the visions come through layered.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the entities with my regular ears, hearing. The other side I could hear clearly through my mind.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was in the form of a very bright star until it and I raced towards one another and then it was a bright light surrounding me yet mainly in front of me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It’s HOME!  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unconditional love, no judgement whatsoever. On my earthly body side I felt slight fear and worry about my kids like I said.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was given information: No gender, no judgement, we are not alone, we are always watched over, we are infinite, we are loved beyond all our flaws doesn’t matter what you’ve done. We are one, we don’t know what we’re really doing most of the time. We can’t see the woods for the trees here.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   My children were still very young. My baby was only 3 months old and my son was 3 yrs old. As much as I wanted to stay where we all truly come from I went back to human form.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   I had training and practicing in meditation for a year.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I practice Buddhist beliefs and meditate and have meditated for years. And I try with everything in my power not to kill a living thing. Spiders, bugs, flying insects, worms, etc…  

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   Close to Buddhist practice  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew nothing of near death experiences, leaving my body, seeing thousands of entities, vibrations or the stopping of time. So I hadn’t any beliefs in that direction.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I sought more information and people who were of like mind in the paranormal, supernatural, spiritual community.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The guardian spoke mind to mind stating that I would understand that title because of our inferior language. It was the best translation I would understand.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Absolutely we are all connected, included, belong, no one is left out, forgotten or judged. No matter what.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The universal light is made up of a supreme unconditional loving, energy and we all are apart of his energy.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know that there’s nothing to fear regarding death and we’ll all remember how to do it when our time comes. It’s as easy as stepping into another room.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Not so much as a meaning or purpose, but our jobs to learn unconditional loving compassion which is harder than hell to navigate on this plane, our species is fairly judgmental of others and ourselves.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I experienced our infinity. We are forever. And the other side is our home.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     From the information that was given me, anyone, at anytime can transition to the other side, it has to do with meditation and vibrations. We vibrate very slowly here, we vibrate on a faster level, we expand outside our physical bodies.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That was the real deal, total unconditional love for all beings no matter what. My NDE was the greatest show in the universe. There’s nothing that can top my experience.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I started researching NDEs and OBEs I meditated more often wanting more experiences with the other side, I’ve researched different religions and belief system of other cultures. I learned to do medium readings because beings had messages for people here. I learned to work with chakras and healing techniques. I work with children because they are great gifts upon this planet. I know that we will change our teaching techniques ti focus more on spirituality, emotional and mental well being like we learn on the other side.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to follow the example of unconditional love and compassion in my relationships and I know we will always be together infinitely.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because explaining it doesn’t do it justice. I can’t explain unconditional love permeating everything, or infinity, or no time, information pouring in all at once. Our language is too simple and people have to experience the event to understand.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  Like I’ve stated before, my NDE was top of the charts any other experiences pales compared to that experience and I’ve had multiple out of body experiences and I remember those vividly, I remember when all time stopped for me during a crowded race car event, everything stopped and froze in time. I remember my Mom coming to me after she died and her sister, I remember that vividly. I know of several of my past lifetimes. Yes, there is without a doubt life after death.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see some events happen before they do,  and I can communicate with beings from the other side.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That I didn’t have to die to have a near death experience. The information that was given, the experience of infinity and the total unconditional love and acceptance of all of us. And that we are never alone.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was at least 5 to 6 years before I communicated my experience to my counselor, he supported me and made me feel like I wasn’t alone. Then a couple years later I told my Mom and brothers and sisters of my experience and my grown children also know. My Mom was afraid to die, I would tell her not to be we made a pact that if either of us died we would go see John Edwards the psychic and talk through him and that’s exactly what we did. She kept her promise and came through not only to Mr. Edwards but to me personally.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is and will always be the only reality. It is truth, the universal light does not lie, unconditional love cannot lie. It isn’t capable of lies. Only truth.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was the most beautiful experience I’ve ever encountered. I’ve had two children and those two experiences were miracles of life. My NDE experience was a miracle of life after we die and go home.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I’ve had many OBEs, very freeing, I still receive messages from my Mom. And I was shown how children are taken care of over there and our practices or schooling that we do over there.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There’s so much we haven’t even tapped into, we are so limited here. It’s a big universe we live in and anything is possible. I’m a fairly pessimistic person, yet every paranormal experience I have had has been absolutely positive.  The clarity, brightness and natural beauty is indescribable.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Just the question I brought up before…if the experience ever presented itself again and I had the choice to stay on the other side or come back to Human living what would I choose? I’d definitely stay on the other side. There’s no place like home.               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long and Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_e_ndelike.html