{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandra K NDE 4560","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra K NDE 4560  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2295 Sandra K NDE 4560  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My younger sister and I had been celebrating the birth of my cousin. We had been at a pizza and beer pub. We consumed a beer or two each, and then decided we should be getting home. I was almost twenty years old and my sister was seventeen, soon to be eighteen. It had been raining on and off throughout the day and it was starting to get dark out. Anyway, my sister had decided to show off her driving skills (which wasn't a good idea). I had told her that the Ford Torino that she was driving couldn't cut corners the way my Pinto station wagon could and she shouldn't try! I then preceded to tell her that she would lose control of the car in this rain. As I said those very words, she lost control of the car and it spun around slamming into a telephone pole! We were not more than five blocks from our home. My side of the car hit the telephone pole. 

Next thing I knew, my sister was calling out my name, 'Sandy, Sandy are you okay?' I could hear myself answering, 'YES, YES I'm okay.' But she kept calling out to me as if I wasn't answering.

Finally, I looked up to see if she was okay. That's when I noticed I was hovering just above our bodies, about where the roof of the car was. I again answered my sister's cries but this time I could see myself knocked out with my head in my chest. I was outside my body long enough to realize that she couldn't hear me because I wasn't in my physical body therefore I had no vocal cords. What was weird though was I could hear my voice just as I did when I was in my body. What happened next was, since I couldn't reply to my sister's pleas, she reached over to shake me awake. When she did this, she let out this scream of pain (I watched this all happen). 

The next thing I know I'm somehow back in my body again. I immediately woke up and got out of the car to help her. Her collarbone was broken in the crash and she needed me! I didn't remember this experience right away. I believe the reason I have to come back to life is that my physical body wasn't broken beyond repair. Therefore, I got to return to it.

One thing has changed in my life, and that is, I now have to some degree psychic abilities. Not real in-depth abilities, nevertheless true premonition abilities and a few others. I took two hours of ESP testing and I scored in the 96-98% in these test scores. I took these tests twice and scored the same each time! Now I don't run around telling people that I have these abilities, at first I was afraid of them. I didn't want to see ghosts or see murders and stuff, so I tried not to delve into it to much. I also can now understand how ghosts feel. We can't see them or hear them for the most part but it's probably the same as when I was out of body, I was talking to my sister and she heard nothing. It must be terribly frustrating for them. Anyway, this is my story I hope you enjoy and learn from it!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 20,1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other 'I was in a car accident, which my side of the car hit the telephone pole. I found myself hovering above myself. I could see and hear everything, i could see myself but i couldn't tell if i was dead or just knocked out. until this day I still am not sure.  I was in a car accident and found my soul or consciousness (whichever one it was) no longer in my physical body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time I was out of my body!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time I was out of my body!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think the actual field of vision may have been different.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion at first, then frustration because no one could hear me. Then desperate to help my sister.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'not baptised, butI believe in god!'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   imp still not baptized but I'm seriously considering getting my son and I baptized catholic!

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I just seemed to know who was going to die next in my family. I also knew whether or not things were going to happen to my family. It's hard to explain, I just seem to know things. Especially dangerous surroundings or dangerous circumstances, etc.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Why did I return to my body so fast? One minute I was out, the next minute I was back in. Very strange, was I dead or just knocked out? I really will never know!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just what I saw on TV.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I overdosed on drugs at least twice and I didn't have any out of body experience. One of those times I almost didn't make it back alive!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_k_nde.html