{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_h_nde_4679.html","mytitle":"Sandra H NDE 4679","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra H NDE 4679  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2369 Sandra H NDE 4679  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					See answers to questions below, explains most if not all of experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11/04/2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury  aspirin induced stroke  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Major subdural hematoma with bleeding into brain, unable to clot due to aspirin usage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the void I was very alert to what was happening there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the void I was very alert to what was happening there.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist there although it was weeks in the intensive care unit here, in this reality it seemed like a second and eternity there. The darkness was vast, huge; it had no beginning or end. I would stretch out infinitely into it and always it was infinite beyond my sense.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The beings were in the void with me. I do not know them from this life but seemed to have known them forever. It was like a best friends/teacher reunion.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I knew it was there but could not 'see' it but felt it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, happiness, curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw images that told me what I hate the most in others are those qualities I to have but do not see them in myself. I fit very neatly into all the areas I profess to hate in others. Love was the key to everything, acceptance and love. Also there was a lot of 'talk' about my making a decision, the results of the decision. If I returned to the body with pain and paralysis or left for good what would happen. Cannot remember everything often was in void then back out floating near the ceiling, lying above my body, zipping to sneak a look at my charts by floating above the shoulders of the doctors, then back into the void again.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Later, after NDE, I seem to be having a lot of paranormal encounters including being told about future events that came to be.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became a Buddhist based on certainty of reincarnation.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Mormon LDS

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became a Buddhist based on certainty of reincarnation.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   See above. As a result of the knowledge I have become a Buddhist.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to do what was shown me in the void.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Information exchange in the void was done with thoughts/ images that conveyed so much more than words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had some abilities before but now it has escalated a hundred percent. I have many encounters now with folks on the other side - some personal in nature some just like bumping into a stranger who wants to talk. Sometimes I will 'see' one turn to notice me when I think to it, interested seemingly or curious about me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Close family accept what I say, others think I'm crazy. But I'm not crazy my brain damage is not in an area to cause hallucinations.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Movies, books, but it's really not like those.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's profound - you know if you've had one.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above, it changed my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_h_nde_4679.html