{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandra P Probable NDE 6560","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra P Probable NDE 6560  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3238 Sandra P Probable NDE 6560  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was headed to a dentist appointment at 9:30 am.  I was driving a two-door Volkswagen.  It was raining and I was traveling approximately forty-five miles per hour.  About a mile from my country home were some railroad tracks that I always crossed over.  Off to the right were some dense woods and the tracks were slightly overgrown with brush.  There was no railroad sign whatsoever at the crossing, in fact, we had never even seen a train go by.  As I approached the tracks, all of a sudden I heard a train whistle.  I looked to the right and in horror, I saw a large train coming toward me at full speed. I immediately slammed on my brakes, but I knew it was too late. I could feel the car sliding onto the tracks. All I could think of was my two boys and how I would not be there any more to love them. I knew my life was over. 

The next thing I remember is waking up in the emergency room, confused. I could feel blood running down my face. A doctor had shaved part of my head and was suturing the wound. I learned later that I received thirty-two stitches, with no medication. As I lay there, I kept going in and out of consciousness. Another physician came in and told me to look at my foot. It was black. He said he had to set it now, or I would lose it. I also remember seeing a bone protruding out of my lower leg. I had an open compound fracture—my foot had been torn off and was being held on only by my Achilles tendon. While the doctor was setting my foot, I passed out and awoke several hours later. I saw that I had a long leg cast on, and in spite of being heavily medicated. I was in severe pain. My family was at my bedside. I was still feeling confused.

The next morning I awoke and started putting together what had happened. I finally realized I had been in an accident but I had this overwhelming feeling of love!  Not human love but indescribable Love, unconditional love and acceptance! A spiritual love! Love that is combined with peace, joy, and acceptance! Truly, there are no words in my vocabulary I can use to describe this overwhelming feeling! I am not humanly capable of expressing this feeling because there are no earthly words with which to do so. I remembered that God had told me it was not my time to die because I had more love to give.  And that is the only reason for our existence, to give love! That is all that matters in this world, the amount of love and compassion we can share. 

I was also filled with his love and a knowledge of how very much he loves us! There is no feeling in this life as strong as ‘How he adores us, not just me, all of us!’ I felt like I was invincible! I had a message from above! I had a glimpse of the indescribable compassion he has for all of us his children! I felt as though I had to get out of my bed and yell up and down the halls, ‘It's ok! He loves all of us!  You have no idea how much you are loved!’ As I lay in my hospital bed, I wasn't sad, I knew whatever the physical outcome from my accident was, something special had happened to me that made my life complete, forever.  If I died, it was okay. I was not afraid of anything. I was filled with HIS Love! I called my best friend, who knew me completely, and told her about my experience. She cried and I cried. I knew she believed me. I was very careful about sharing my experience, because I had a head injury and they might attribute it to that. (There is no way that injury had anything to do with my experience.)

The indescribable emotions that I was filled with could not be explained away. I knew God saved my life. I was in a Volkswagen and was hit by a train! I was pushed about a block down the tracks and then my car rolled over into a ditch. Paramedics had to pry my car open to get me out. God (whom I call my Creator) told me it was not time for me to die. I had to give more love in this world. The main reason for our existence is to give love. But the way He loves us, we can't compare to anything in this earthly existence. Eventually, I had four surgeries on my leg, and my ankle was fused. I divorced my abusive husband and got remarried.  I started a healthcare newspaper and several other endeavors as an entrepreneur.  I knew I would never fail, because employment and money weren't it!  It's about love!  My experience changed my life forever!  I know we are here to give love and to help one another.  I have tried to share the indescribable, overwhelming, unconditional acceptance and adoration God has for all of us. I feel sad that scientists nowadays will never even research this kind of experience, in which I was so loved!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1983

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a Volkswagen and hit by a train.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had an all-knowing feeling of unlimited joy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       About the second day after my accident when I realized this incredible peace.  I was told I would lose my foot.  I was thankful I had the spiritual experience after I got out of surgery and realized my message!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything happened at one time. There was no meaning to ‘time.’

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was afraid, petrified, I was going to die!  Then my next feeling was love, acceptance, and joy. I can't describe it!  It was a feeling as if I could fly out of my body! I was not limited to my earthly body. This feeling was way beyond and outside of it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't ‘hear’ anything, but someone had told me it was not my time to die. It was not a voice so I didn't hear it. I felt it!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I had a feeling that I have put into words. I was engulfed in love and the Love told me it was not my time to die.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace, acceptance, calmness and excitement because of the love!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Everything!  All that mattered was love.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I never have one minute of doubt about our Creator, never!

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never knew how much we were loved and the indescribable JOY and Tranquility that awaits us!

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know we are here for a reason and we are all loved unconditionally!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   My creator told me how much he loved us all. Not so much in a voice but this overwhelming feeling was conveyed to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are only here to LOVE one another. Our existence is LOVE as one

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Our creator loves us beyond description-- it is a feeling I was given I can never explain in the English language!! There are no words to describe our creators unconditional love!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have to tell others about how much they are loved by their creator.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Of course I did!! Our reason is to give LOVE- LOVE is God

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Our creator is waiting for us- with unconditional LOVE

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Everything is overcome with his LOVE! Unconditional LOVE!

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Our reason for being is to give LOVE and to receive his LOVE

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     At the age of thirty-two, I was self-centered, trying to find happiness with material things. I had two sons and was living with my physically abusive husband.  I was given the courage to get my boys and me out on our own.  I started living a life of helping others as a nurse. But more importantly, in my personal life, I had been too afraid to leave my husband because he had beaten me and threatened to kill me so many times. I knew God was there for me and wanted me to live. Even if my husband did kill me, I would be ok.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can't put my feelings into words.  There are no words in the English language to describe it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the feeling like it happened today! It is always vivid ...... the MESSAGE

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can feel what others are feeling. I know who is calling on my phone before I answer it. I know the names of people before they introduce themselves.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know dying is a wonderful experience and there is no reason to fear death. While we are alive, we are to love others unconditionally!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience about three days after it occurred. Now I share it whenever I feel it will help a situation and when people are receptive to it. My father died a year ago, and before he died, I explained to him how much God loves him and that He was waiting for him. I told him all about my experience and that I knew God was waiting for him and loved him so much! He was not afraid to die!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have never had such a real experience. I knew I was going to die. I was hit by a train, but God had other plans for me!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am forever grateful! I can't put my gratitude into words.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_p_probable_nde.html