{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandra J NDE 2987","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra J NDE 2987  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1060  Sandra J NDE  2987  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  After 12:00 midnight I was taken to the operating room and put under anesthesia. I wasn't really informed as to my condition as being life threatening. I guess I was young and uninformed since I was aware as to the bleeding all day but since this was my first child I did not know what to expect. While I was under the anesthesia, I found myself in a very bright warm area high over the operating table. I could hear people talking about the fact that they didn't know what happened. Also, they said that they knew that I had just given birth to a child the day before and they were sure that I would like to be there with my child. The peaceful location, the warmth, the brightness, the calmness of the voices made it a very comfortable experience. While looking down I really wasn't that aware that it was me on the operating table, but, I knew it was me. After the voices said that they knew I would want to be with my child, everything faded.  I guess I was sent back. The next thing I remembered was waking up in the recovery room. The doctor told me several days later that they had lost me on the operating room table and they didn't know what had happened. I just sort of accepted that explanation since I had remembered the incident of the light, warmth, calm voices and being over the table.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'August 19, 1962'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedChildbirth     '24 hours after childbirth, unable to stop the bleeding I was taken to surgery where I died on the table.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Uncontrolled bleeding and I was under anesthesia.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I found myself looking down, I was in awe of everything, the bright light, the warmth, peace, the voices. No pain or uncomfortable feeling. Just peace.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I found myself looking down, I was in awe of everything, the bright light, the warmth, peace, and the voices. No pain or uncomfortable feeling. Just peace.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Surrounded by light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and awe.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     When I was in Third Grade I attended Church. I haven't been a consistent church goer. I believe that we should be about caring and helping others. Sometimes and usually putting myself last. After this experience I just know that I trust in my intuitions and always am aware of everything and interested in everything.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     When I was in Third Grade I attended Church. I haven't been a consistent church goer. I believe that we should be about caring and helping others. Sometimes and usually putting myself last. After this experience I just know that I trust in my intuitions and always am aware of everything and interested in everything.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm not afraid. I always feel that I know when something or someone has a problem with something, which I feel compelled to try to help them.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I've always had unexplained experiences. I didn't realize that everyone didn't have these feeling of knowing things as to the reactions of people. I've always be very cautious even as a small child. As a small child of four or five I was awakened in the middle of the night with a vision in the sky of people walking up a stair of clouds, angels singing. I sat on my bed looking out of the window. After a while, I became so tired I laid back and even though I was trying not to go to sleep, I did. When I realized I had dozed off I jumped up to look out the window again and the scene was the same except the clouds had changed a little and the singing was gone. I knew then that I had been awake because the moon was in the same location surrounded by the same type of clouds. I can picture that today. This experience I never discussed until I was maybe thirty. My experiences have been knowing the sex of my children (six) before they were born (told in a dream), saw the face of my first child prior to birth. Have always had experiences of events in my personal life prior to happening. Mainly positive, especially when I was able to avoid a serious auto accident with my grandchildren in a car when I slowed down and stopped on a green light and seconds later a car shot out into the intersection and would have hit me broadside. These things have happened so much that I had forgotten about most of them.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I'm just happy to realize that this is something that other people have experienced.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Twenty-plus years. I still don't really discuss it. I'm a person that feels that it was a very private experience. I may have discussed it in private company to my children at some time or other. During 1962 NDEs were not really talked about and if they were people assumed you were on drugs. (Smile.)  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   1962, definitely not.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just accepted it matter-of-factly.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real. This has not changed.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I don't take medications that would elevate me.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can't think of any.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_j_nde.html