{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sandra_nde.html","mytitle":"Sandra NDE3620","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sandra NDE3620  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sandra NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1657 Sandra NDE 3620  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was playing basketball when all of a sudden everything turned dark and started spinning. For a moment, I thought that it was just my blood pressure dropping. I closed my eyes and fell onto my head but didn't feel any pain. From afar, I heard my friends' voices, they were yelling 'Sandra, Sandra,' and then everything faded away. 

That's when I had the strange sensation of floating. I could see my friends gathered around me but I could no longer hear them. I could also see my body; I was white and not moving. It was very strange. An intense light appeared and almost blinded me. In that light, I saw my paternal grandfather. He died when I was only three years old. I felt good at the same time that I was worried. I can't describe it. 

Finally, I felt a terrible pain in my head and in my chest and I awakened in a hospital room with my mother beside me crying. This was a very strange experience, which I wouldn't want to experience again but in a certain way, it helped me to no longer fear death. At first I thought everything had been a bad dream but then found out that it was real enough and that the doctors had revived me with their paddles and CPR massage.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  15-03-08

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Me desmayé jugando al baloncesto me golpeé en la cabeza al c'r y perdí el conocimiento.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was floating.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was floating.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     All my thoughts were racing but at the same time going very slowly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Between hazy and illuminated as though it was coming from a movie.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At first I heard a kind of whistling then everything became silent and empty.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased paternal grandfather who was smiling and giving me a hug. A light surrounded us and a haze and he didn't say anything to me but after the hug, he released me and moved away. This is when I returned to this life.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An intense white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Estaba rodeada de niebla luz y frío.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The sensation of peace mixed in with a light feeling of floating as though the floating was making me feel anxious or nervous.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I have learned not to fear death.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was both happiness and worry.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes I get feelings or premonitions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the love of the cherished beings around me and seeing my grandfather.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After going three days and feeling lightly depressed, my parents and my friends asked me why I was so down and I told them everything. At first they said I had hallucinated but I got angry at that and finally they believed me, they were surprised.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Everything was so real that I can still feel the experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I continue to affirm that it was real because I don't possess the imaginative powers to invent all of this and since that day my memories are very clear.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandra_nde.html