{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sana_nde.html","mytitle":"Sana NDE 3470","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sana NDE 3470  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sana NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1624 Sana NDE 3470  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went to the maternity hospital for the birth of my child and I was ready for it mentally and physically.  It was a natural process of birth. The Doctor dealt with the extent of pain by gauging how responsive I was to it. The nurses were called and I gave birth to a baby.  The placenta did not come out.  The doctor put pressure on the abdomen to help.

Someone said, 'You must summon the surgeon to remove the placenta,' and I saw the doctor had arrived.  

Then I started feeling that the ceiling of the room is coming on, and I started rising from the Earth towards the ceiling and I entered the tunnel. The spiral brings me to the quickly to the top. I imagine my husband and give him my latest recommendations about the newborn child and I tell him, 'I die now, children must receive good care. Take one to my grandmother.'  I echo the certificates and attest that there is no god but Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God over and over again.  The time I spent in the tunnel spiral went smoothly and quickly and pleased His Excellency.  The feeling was indescribable. 

Then they brought me back to consciousness and I found myself still alive. I felt grief because I lost that indescribable feeling.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth  بعد ولادتي لطفلي الأول مباشرة تمت الولادة بصورة طبيعية ولكن المشيمة لم تخرج  بسبب عيب خلقي في الرحم..قرر الطبيب انه لابد من عمل تخدير كلي لاخراج المشيمة باليد  Other كنت في حالة جيدة  Complications during a birth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was not in full consciousness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was not in full consciousness

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt that I was beyond the limits of time and space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel is something like a spiral and is not a comfortable one where others are.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A place shining and bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt satisfaction and recognition and joy.  I felt that I was totally lightweight and was liberated from heavy restrictions; despite knowing that I left behind a small baby, but that was not sad.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   مسلمة

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have more patience and forgiveness to those who harm, and promised myself I would not hurt anyone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have always felt that I passed a unique experience rarely experienced by others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After about five hours, with my husband and my mother.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     You always wonder if the anesthesia operated in relation to such tests?  Do all people, during the process of undergoing surgery, have a similar experience? However, I have not encountered anyone. In your pages today, I found that many, who told similar stories, were in the operating room, particularly after anesthesia.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No suggestions.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sana_nde.html