{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1samuel_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Samuel C NDE 6284","mylang":"de"}
          	        Samuel C NDE 6284  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Samuel C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3047 Samuel C NDE 6284  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I awoke at about 2 AM, having a powerful thirst. I decided to get up to get some water from the kitchen. On the way, I experienced severe pains in my shoulders, back and arms. I got to the sink and drew the water, but then fell to the floor. At this time I felt myself walking through this ‘tunnel’ which seemed to me to be more like an arboretum with light shining through here and there. At the end of this tunnel there seemed to be a brightly lit grassy area. I reached this area, turned and began to walk toward a very bright light. 

At this point I heard a beautiful feminine voice say ‘you can’t go on; they say you have more to do’. Now at this time I wanted very much to go on, I was disappointed at this news. Next, I found myself still hearing this voice but back in my kitchen somewhere near the ceiling looking down at my body lying on the floor. I felt the most powerful love both for this person on the floor and for whatever entity was in the room with me, the intensity of which was indescribable. There is no doubt in my mind God was there; again the voice saying ‘you have more to do’. I felt myself agreeing now with this and descended down from the ceiling towards the back of my ear. 

I then awoke in severe pain again and crawled back to the bedroom on my hands and knees. I woke up my wife, who then called the paramedics. They arrived and did some tests, the data from which went to a hospital electronically. The hospital communicated the necessity for immediate transfer to the hospital for heart attack treatment. My wife asked the doctor if she should call our son (who was in New York at the time) to come to California. He said, 'Absolutely, Yes.' He didn't think I would make it. However, I wasn't too concerned because I had been told by a higher authority that I would.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  February of 1976
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had a severe heart attack the doctors called an inferior myocardial infarction

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I rarely even consider profound thoughts like this. However, when your life is on the line, one becomes very attentive.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time I returned to the kitchen ceiling and this all powerful being was in the room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I can see of no radical difference in vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I had no sense of hearing at all. Everything seemed to be telepathically communicated.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It seemed to be a tunnel but with light penetrating it randomly.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very bright but not to the point of hurting your eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     From going through the tunnel and on, including the experience back in the kitchen seemed unearthly.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love for me and my love for the beings that were in the room with me

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Those who say there is the spark of God in each of us are correct.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The main reason I decided to return was that they said I had more to do, even though at the time I didn't know what the ‘more’ to do was, it was at God’s request that I figure it out. One cannot refuse this being. I later came to the conclusion that my job was to discuss this event with others and that is what I have done.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   was raised protestant but at the time was a science of mind member

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   currently a member of unity

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had always felt that there had to be somthing after life but that there was no proof. Now I had my proof.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I went from an uncertain belief in God to a certain belief.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The communications were ‘heard’ only telepathically.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I encountered an awareness of God that I never had before.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     My feeling was that we all are included in Gods plan.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God definitely exists and is total love.  The feeling was incredible love of one whom you would do anything for  and whom would do anything for you.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt the love of God is in each of us and the love is unconditional. The certainty of God’s love.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     For me it is obvious that there is an afterlife and I think that no one is  left out.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I feel that the experience needs to be shared with others

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt the love of God is in each of us and that its love is unconditional.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember every nuance of that day and remember little else that happened at that time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had heard of it but I was ambivalent about it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The condition of God’s love for us. I remember every nuance of that day and remember little else that happened at that time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was at a loss to figure out how to explain this to people, then about a year later we attended a party and met a couple. The father of the lady was on his deathbed. I described my experience to them, and they seemed greatly relieved. From this, I now knew what my job was.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never felt that the experience was unreal.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My view of the experience is that it is more real than any so called life experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1samuel_c_nde.html