{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sammy_nde.html","mytitle":"Sammy NDE 44","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sammy NDE 44  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Sammy NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						109  Sammy NDE  44  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I had been having flu-like symptoms accompanied with some minor aches radiating out from the chest into both arms and up into the jaw. I gave the doctors two picture perfect EKG tests and the symptoms were written off as a nasty virus. After a couple of weeks of no improvement and another text book EKG it was decided to give me a cardiac stress test.


This involves walking on treadmill at various levels of difficulty while wired to an elaborate EKG machine. During the first stage of my test, I felt a crushing pain in my chest. It was as if someone had placed a giant vice on my chest. I remember the doctor asking me if I was okay and beginning to fall, but I don't remember landing on the treadmill or floor.


After that, my memories are bits and pieces of images and feelings. I remember going through a tunnel or tubular passage with a loud rushing noise in the background. I do not remember entering or exiting the tube.


The next thing I remember was being drawn toward a magnificent light of immeasurable brilliance.  As I moved toward the light, my first wife (NDERF note: His first wife was deceased) intercepted me. She was happy to see me but concerned because it was not time for me to be there. I knew she was happy and contented in her present form. I don't remember her telling me any of that. I just knew it.


It was as if we made a right turn. The next thing I remember is sitting in a warm green pasture like setting with a brilliant blue sky. I can't clearly remember if there were grass, flowers or other plants there. I spoke with someone here. We talked for hours about why we are all here and my plans for this life is. At that time, I knew it all, the whole meaning of life and what it is all about.


I cannot remember any of it except the last sentence. It is clear to me I am not supposed to. To this day, I still dream of the conversation in great detail. When I wake up, I still can't remember it. I do not know who or even what I spoke with. I can tell you I felt unconditional love and limitless wisdom.


As I said, the only thing I remember from that conversation is one sentence. I remember it as clear as if I just heard it. A deep male voice said, "Then it's decided, you're going back."


At the end of that sentence the medical personnel defibrillated me the second time. I was slammed back into my body and I felt the shock with a vengeance. It was as if somebody set off a small bomb in my chest. My eyes popped open and I saw the back of the head of the man who did it. I heard him say "conversion" which is the medical term for re-establishing a cardiac rhythm. That tells me it was the second shock. The doctor who administered the stress test said they shocked me twice. The first time I did not convert.


My eyes closed again. The next time they opened is was in cardiac care.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 18, 1988

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death A cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  During the events I can remember, I never had the inclination to look at or consider any part of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The memories I can recall are very sharp and clear.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I spent several hours talking in the green field. The resuscitation effort took less then five minutes.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A white noise in the tunnel. It would be similar to an open squelch on a radio or the sound of the ocean surf without the pulsation of the waves.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I recall traveling at a very high speed through a dark tubular passage.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I met my deceased first wife. I spoke with a superior entity about why we are here and what my mission in this life is. I have no memory of what this entity looked like. I think I may have known this entity prior to my heart attack but I'm not sure.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A very bright, indescribably beautiful full spectrum light. As bright as the light was, it was not unpleasant or painful to look at.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The region with the light and the "green field" as described above.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      An incredible sensation of absolute caring and love. The closest I can come to describing it would be the unconditional love of a mother for an infant child.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I learned there is plan reason we are all here. I know there is far more to life than any of us are aware of. However, we may not be capable of understanding it while in our current form.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     On rare occasions I get very strong feelings as to what life path I should take. In every case I've followed that feeling, and it has turned out very well.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I am certain the choice to stay or go was with me.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     The experience closed the pain and anger I felt at losing my first wife.  I have made my peace with the powers that run this life.    I have a much more balanced life. I used to believe the pursuit of financial wealth and status was the only meaning of life. Since my NDE, I found I no longer wanted to follow that path. My doctor told me to "change jobs or die" only this time he said I may stay dead. All this aside, I went back to work, mainly because I felt I had to keep earning the "big money." It didn't work out. Not for health reasons, but because it simply wasn't important to me anymore. By the end of October I was seriously considering resigning.    In November, some scaffolding collapse at on job on a military installation gave me fall that should have killed me. Other than a couple of scrapes and knocking the wind out of me I came out of it unscathed. While I was laying there trying to get my breath back I heard my doctor's voice like somebody ran a tape recorder next to my ear, "Change jobs or die." I never went back to that job.    My belief structure changed dramatically. I found concrete proof that much of what was drilled into my head from the pulpit simply wasn't true. The priests, ministers, pastors and other men and women of the cloth don't have the slightest idea of what life and death is really all about.     There is a master plan and each and every one of us has a part in it. I am certain that each part of that plan is just as important as the next. Belief that position and status make your roll more important than the lady who takes your money at the convenience store is nothing but egotistical nonsense. I know, I used to think that way too.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   We do not share a common frame of reference. Much of it is impressions and non-verbal communication.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     See number 18.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Seeing my first wife and resolving those feelings was the best part. The worst part is not being able to remember that conversation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My wife believes it. However, my experience sharply contradicts her religious beliefs and discussing it makes her uncomfortable.     Of the few outside my family who know I had an experience, most treat the subject as if I've been eating my chemistry set for lunch. As a result, I don't bring it up very often.     One exception is a reporter I work with on occasion. She had an NDE during her teen years and we talked at length about our experiences. The other exception, surprisingly enough, is my doctor.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sammy_nde.html