{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sam_p_nde_9392.html","mytitle":"Sam P NDE 9392","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sam P NDE 9392  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sam P NDE 9392  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5034 Sam P NDE 9392  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On April 15, 2022, I was at home supposed to be laying low due to some issues I had been having related to a surgery. I was cleaning up a mess that my dog had made. As I stood up, there was a very hard thump in my chest. Almost a feeling of an explosion deep in my chest. My heart beats quickly sped up and upon checking it on a pulse/oxygen meter it registered 226 beats per minute. I attempted to breath,  and meditate it down using a calming technique, however I was unsuccessful. 
  
  I called my Wife, who called 911. After an assessment I was put on a gurney and moved into the ambulance. During my trip to the hospital, 3 separate attempts were made to restart my heart using Adenosine, followed by 3 attempts with a defibrillator. 

  After the first attempt I was thrown first into an optical experience in which the frame of vision within the ambulance started rapidly folding onto each other from varying 90 degree angles. Initially I felt like this was never going to end, and was not sure if I was dreaming, or if this was a real experience. I came back to a steady frame and started responding to the EMTs. They were surprised that I was conscious and communicating, and then told me that they were going to have to try again. 

  Upon the second attempt I was thrown in the same manner as the first into another optical experience in which I was reliving certain memories from my past, if I remained calm it was a if I was learning some lesson from them. If I would feel that I wish things could have been different a feeling of chaos would overwhelm me. 

  This seemed to last for quite some time, and through many different memories. Each time the feeling of chaos would overwhelm me. My focus would be drawn to a very bright, pure white light. At first I did not want to go anywhere near this light as I was consciously aware of what it was. As I would regain my composure I would find myself back in the ambulance. Once I would find myself there I would check myself over and ask questions. 

  Again, the EMTs would comment on the fact that I was still conscious and then try again, sending me into a similar experience. This would follow the 3rd, and the 4th attempts with similar experiences. Each time as I would find myself back in the ambulance I would open and close my hands and then continue to communicate with the EMTs. It seemed as if they were shocked and confused as to why, or how I could still be conscious and communicating. Each time they would try again. 
  
  On the 5th attempt I surrendered after finding myself unable to remain within the calm experience of my past. The chaos was almost unbearable so I located the bright light and moved towards it. There were feelings of guilt for all that I would leave behind, and guilt for any shortfalls in my belief that may keep me from being worthy to cross into this light. Every ounce of me knew I was not going back to my life. The beginnings of this were emotional, but then became peaceful as I came to terms with the fact that this life was over, and I had done everything that i could to hold on. 

  As I crossed into this white, warm light I was received into a room of pure light. I was laying on a table in this room surrounded by 7 or more beings that were very tall, slender, and their appearance was of shadows within an aura of bright light. There was one being who held an orb of what looked like liquid gold light that was dripping, and contained geometric patterns. The other beings were touching this orb and cleaning my body with it, while encouraging me, and commending me for the life that I had lived. 

  The being who held the light very Sternly asked why this was all being wasted on me. From off in the distance a loud voice said that I was the only one who could handle all of this, which seemed to make the being holding the light upset. This being then slammed the orb into my chest and kept shoving on it until the orb was fully within me. Once the orb was gone this being kept his hand upon my chest, and a feeling of compassion filled the room for a moment until chaos overcame me, and I found myself once again opening and closing my hands, and checking myself over in the ambulance. 

  This time I heard one of the EMTs crying by my left shoulder, and another alerting the rest that I was still conscious. One of the men said there was No way I was still there. I then spoke to him saying I was still there, and holding on tight. I asked them about the treatments they had administered and after going through the details I said "have you ever wondered if the heart was just meant to be open?" I then stated that "nobody was going to be able to stop my heart." After saying this I was told that they were going to have to try again or my heart was going to fail. After the last attempt I do not recall an experience except that I was aware they were putting my arms next to my sides, one EMT grabbed my right shoulder and said "I'm sorry man". 
  
  I then woke up in the hospital with my Wife by my side, confused, and not knowing if what I was experiencing in that moment was real, or not. The hospital slowed my heart over several hours using beta blockers and then I was released. I have felt calm, reflective, and centered over the last few weeks.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 4-15-2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Heart rate over 200bpm, 3 attempts to regulate w/ adenosine 3 w/ defibrillator  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Low hemoglobin levels lead to a disfunction in my heart. I went into bradycardia after a surgery. 1 week later I went into SVT. I was picked up at my home in an ambulance and 6 attempts were made to stop and restart my heart.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear the EMT's talking about the dosing, and the Jules for the defibrillator. At one point I could hear them talk about how heavy I was, so I sat up so they could move the backrest up.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Clear, detailed oriented, stern, more powerful, determined  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The last 3rd of the event.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My eyes hurt and have bothered me off and on since.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A ringing in my ears has become more frequent.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Explained in the details of the experience.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A pure light was with me through the whole event. Eventually I went into the light. This brought me into a room of pure light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Explained in the details of the experience.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Explained in the details of the experience.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I seem to be channeling knowledge of the workings of this existence, and the details of how it came to be.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     Explained in the details of the experience.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Will communicate in person.  

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I believe in God, not affiliated to religion.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Same as above  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Explained in the details of the experience.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Explained in the details of the experience.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Some of the visions of my life were not of this lifetime.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We live in a shared plane of existence, and if we choose to separate ourselves from it we still exist within it and only remove who we are from ourselves. This makes it harder for others to remain whole within there own experiences as well.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Explained in the details of the experience.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Explained in previous question.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Our goal in this life is to be a as community, painting a beautiful piece of art on a shared canvas.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Explained in the details of the experience.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Will communicate in person.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We have collectibles, and successively chosen all that we experience. And like a mathematical formula to restore balance, we must focus our intentions into one side or the other of the equation depending on the desired outcome.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There is only love, or the absence of love.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A greater understanding  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Will communicate in person  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have had one prior, nothing like this one.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Not sure if I was just interpreting what was going on in the ambulance through a dream state.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The imagery is vivid and dominating my thoughts.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sam_p_nde_9392.html