{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sameer_nde.html","mytitle":"Sameer NDE 1085","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sameer NDE 1085  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sameer NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						512  Sameer NDE  1085  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Following the accident, I was carried to the hospital. I had a surgery operation. I stayed in the hospital for one month. I was in full coma, but sometimes I awoke. The problem was that the doctor didn't clean the injury well. Gangrene spread all over my body and reached the diaphragm. I lost consciousness, so my brother took me quickly to other hospital. There were many other specialists looking after me. They operated on me the same night. It took almost ten hours.


In a moment, I saw myself leave my body. I was floating up near the ceiling in the room, when I saw the doctors put electric shocks on my chest. I saw the doctor, who was my brother's friend, crying and hugged my brother out of the operation room. My brother didn't cry, and told his friend that 'my brother would not die.' He began to pray. I saw then all the officials at the local council came to the hospital to console my brother. I saw the father of the doctor brought a picture of Alkhidir - peace be upon him, he brought it from the Bethlehem church. As he was working there, I felt myself returned to my body, I felt the pain started with me, I also saw all my past life since my breast feeding till now.


My story is still told in the East Jerusalem hospital. As the doctors told me, it was one of the strangest things they have seen in their life.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1979

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death Heart failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Clinical death.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw the people in my funeral carry me until I reach the grave.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Comfort and Joy

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned the human is still alive after death.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Christian

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became carefree, I live a free life."

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best thing was my separation from my body; the worst thing was my return to it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Please translate all the stories of NDEs to all languages.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sameer_nde.html