{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sam_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Sam P NDE 2261","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sam P NDE 2261  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sam P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						634  Sam P NDE  2261  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was sleeping in the passenger seat when we hit the back of a truck at 60 mph. At some time I'm not sure of, I went straight up through the air for lack of a better description and approached a cloud that became a cluster of beings. I knew that they knew everything about me and that there was no need to explain myself. As I approached, the cloud like figures became human-like and I knew that they had always known me and that I was returning home.

I became aware of incredible knowledge that I can't recall now. The sensation was as of a piece of a metal being swept into a magnet. The emotion was overwhelming with incredible love associated with the 'magnetic' effect. I sensed I always knew them but when I came upon one being, I wasn't sure who it was. I left and returned to my body, which seemed as if I were putting on soiled clothes.

I was worried about my child but got a sense that these matters were taken care of and not for me to worry about. I saw and heard wondrous things, most of which I can't describe but it seemed that there was a rhythm to everything with incredible music ever present. Everything in my life included long forgotten details made sense. In fact, everything made perfect sense. I didn't want to leave. I saw my life as a very brief time span relative to what I thought was a time before and a time after my earth life.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12/20/94  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Auto Accident  Auto accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It seemed that I was using a different knowledge base than what I function within my normal life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Coming in contact with the beings, I can't really answer that because it seems time had no meaning.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time seemed like a distinctly earthly thing from that perspective.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was intense but the music was most memorable.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Music as noted.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not sure. It seemed that I was just going through an atmosphere approaching a faraway cloud.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I recall three beings.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The focal point seemed to be more of a white cloud far away and I zoomed to it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Can't find words to descibe details  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Incredible peace. Like every dream was fulfilled and was more than expected.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     Don't recall specifics but do remember a lot of details that became clear as to why they happened.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More understanding of a variety of opinions, more active but stay a little reserved in church.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More understanding of a variety of opinions, more active but stay a little reserved in church.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Everything made sense - the universe, the rhythms the world and the purpose of people. It seemed that there were beings who had been to earth and others who hadn't. Going to earth seemed to be some kind of odd learning experience.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Still searching for that purpose thing but as time goes on I realize that these things are not overnight but take time developing. Things are fine with me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Events beyond imagination that are impossible to describe. Strong emotions to this day.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This world is entirely about love. Pity the fools that don't understand that.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few years passed before talking about it. Haven't met anyone who accepts the experience as being real.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I always knew that the experience was real and probably more real than anything in my life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Things noted are not inconsistent with normal life experiences. Falling in love, love for children. Even the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks - all touch those emotions but are not in themselves complete. The NDE was all of those emotions quenched.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Only thing that came close was a trial for the wreck six years later when I saw some of the people who helped us that night. The experience didn't re-occur but it was very emotional for me.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Why do people think this is crazy talk when most of what I experienced is in the realm of what most folks claim to believe?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sam_p_nde.html