{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1samaa_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Samaa NDE-Like 7559","mylang":"de"}
          	        Samaa NDE-Like 7559  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Samaa NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  			3867 Samaa NDE-Like 7559  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In Iranian culture with the start of spring, people start to celebrate.  For 15 days, most institutions are closed for holidays. As such, I was staying home too.  I was spending my time by watching TV and doing other relaxing things. 

One night, while I was lying down and looking at the ceiling, I felt my spirit coming out of my body.  I continuously told myself that this is just my mind imagining this sensation, so I tried to stop thinking. I told myself it must be fatigue. 

I always loved God, and I would always tell him my problems and things that made me sad.  I felt very close to him and I still do. Maybe that's because when I was only one year old, my mother died and I had no one to which to talk. So the only person who gave me peace was talking to God.

That night I slept.  In my sleep, I was moving at a very high speed in a tunnel full of light. The sensation was so beautiful that I feel incapable of describing it to you. It was as if there was no burden whatsoever on me.  I felt light; it was truly a good feeling. I was moving in the tunnel very fast.  I felt good and full of happiness.

Suddenly, I reached a part of the tunnel where there was a lady.  I did not see her, it just felt as if the being was a lady. I did not hear a voice and did not see anyone. Maybe it was a telepathic understanding. I was told that if I pass this point, I won't be able to return. But that feeling of lightness and happiness was so pleasant that I didn't mind moving on. I was told again, ‘If you go you cannot ever see your father and brother.’ It was as if she wanted to change my mind no matter what.  I thought for a moment that my father will feel devastated without me.  I remember that she told me, ‘They will really suffer without you.’ 

Now that I think about it, I feel the lady was my mother who prevented me from going further. I don't remember anything else until I woke up with the ringing of the phone. I couldn't believe it was 2 pm and I was so tired that I couldn't come out of the bed. At first I didn't take the event too seriously and thought perhaps it was a dream. 

I should also note that very often I dream of events that are to occur in following days and can sense them. Around the time of passing away of people who are close to me, I start to feel differently. For example, at the time of my grandfather's death, all the relatives had gathered in a small city in the North. Everyone was happy and rejoicing.  But I was sitting in one of the rooms crying and begging God to not do it; without knowing what had happened to whom. Then at night the news came that my grandfather had passed away. At the time of my grandmother's passing, I could hear voices that I will never forget.

At any rate, I didn't take the tunnel dream seriously, and I thought it was just a dream. But I loved the good feeling I had experienced.  One day I told my friend about it.  She told me that she had been reading about this type of thing and that this was not a dream, it was real. She also said she is worried because this is dangerous and I can possibly go again. I was always afraid of death but after that experience I feel good about leaving.  But I am worried about what awaits the world and humans.

At the end of September, I had a dream.  I was really concerned given my track record of my previous dreams. I dreamt the world is dark, and whomever I could see was either addicted or was killing someone. Everywhere was filled with fear and horror. Then suddenly I saw the sky became beautifully lit with light, it seemed as if God was very happy. I asked, ‘What is happening?’  A voice from the sky said, ‘Today one who will save the world from injustice and cruelty was born; and today, everyone, even God, is happy’.  I thought to myself how old I will be twenty years from now? From that day on, my mind is constantly occupied with the thought of what that dream meant. 

I think the world has entered a new era, and we are getting close to the end of the world.  How great it would be if there was love and kindness everywhere, and people would not get so evil now or in the future. This narrative got too long, but I wished to write these experiences here.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         شب هنگام در خواب  Other هیچ کدام از موارد بالا نبود من شب دراز کشیده بودم که بحوابم

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Tunnel

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the tunnel I knew I was dead, and I am going to the other world.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't remember.  What I remember the most is the feeling of comfort and lightness that I was experiencing.  I also remember that I was going in the tunnel with a high speed looking ahead to know/to see where I was going.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound to hear except for that call, which I think it was my mother.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Out of body experience

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A tunnel full of light, I was moving at a high speed.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The tunnel was full of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feeling good, and the comfort was really good, it is indescribable, like a feather, a feeling of lightness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Only at the end of the tunnel they said, ‘If you pass this turn you won't be able to go back’.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Muslim

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs I had at the time of my experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am worried for the world and the events that are taking place, and that what will be the end of the world.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I became very involved in trying to understand existence and lives of human beings. I feel I should be good, stay good, and I know one day I will leave. Moderate changes in my life.     I became very involved in trying to understand existence and lives of human beings. I feel I should be good, stay good, and I know one day I will leave. Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can never describe the lightness, and peace, and the good feeling I had.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     In the past, also, I could understand certain events, especially daily events regarding myself and my family.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told only two people.  I shared with my friend whom I knew to have spiritual and mystical information/understanding, (and who had read about these topics) who believed me and became concerned; and my husband who did not believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After reading and doing research on the feeling that I had, every day I feel more convinced that this was not a dream and it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Humans' evilness and their becoming dark-hearted are bringing the world to its ruins.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1samaa_ndelike.html