{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1samantha_k_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Samantha K Probable NDE 4607","mylang":"de"}
          	        Samantha K Probable NDE 4607  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Samantha K Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2328 Samantha K Probable NDE 4607  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We got to the hotel and I told the boys I didn't feel good, but I didn't want to scare them. At a certain point, I had the front desk call 911 because I had a feeling I was dying. I was in strange pain, feeling worse. Then my legs felt paralyzed. It was as if I blinked and suddenly I was standing in front of Jesus and my (deceased) mom. Everything was dark except them. I felt so good and happy - an indescribable peace physically, mentally and spiritually. Jesus just smiled but said nothing. My mom spoke to me even though her lips didn't move - it seemed telepathic. She said, 'Sam, it's not your time yet. You have to go back and take care of your dad and Damien (my son).' Then just like a blink of an eye, I was back on Earth. 

I was in pain, laying on the bed.  My son's friend asked, 'Were you talking to God?' That was strange because this kid doesn't believe in God. To make a long story short I ended up having giardia (a parasite) from kayaking and being pulled underwater under a beaver dam. For the next four months afterward, I was extremely psychic! I don't know how/why but it just faded.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I started feeling sick/strange while travelling and it got so bad I went to the nearest hotel to get a room because I was getting worse by the minute and had my son and his friend in the car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As soon as I saw my mom and Jesus.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I saw my mom and Jesus.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't know how long I was there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Even though I could clearly see Jesus and my mom, everything was void of color.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw Jesus and my mom. My mom said, Sam, it's not your time yet. You have to go back and take care of your dad and Damien (my son).

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, extremely calm - all positive emotions and no negative anything.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     For four months after my mind was sped up and I was extremely psychic.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   non denominational Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   non denominational Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   For four months after I was extremely psychic. I now have no fear/apprehension towards death/dying.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For four months after I was extremely psychic.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was very happy to see Jesus and very comforted by my mom.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within the week I told certain people. I still tell people. They just seem in awe.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Books, media, just hearing stories.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt confused as to why it happened and a strange sadness that I couldn't have stayed.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     All I can say is that I know that I know that I know it was/is very real. It's as real as me writing this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Sharing my NDE via writing/talking to someone who has never had one seems like I cannot write or say enough to convey the impact it had on me and the reality of it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1samantha_k_probable_nde.html