{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sally_s_nde_7460.html","mytitle":"Sally S NDE 7460","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sally S NDE 7460  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sally S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3804 Sally S NDE 7460  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had undergone surgery to remove my tonsils and adenoids. After returning home, I began hemorrhaging, and returned to the hospital for treatment. I experienced this twice, and upon my second visit to the hospital, a blood clot formed preventing me from breathing. That night I remember being in pain. I felt very frightened, but suddenly I no longer felt the pain. 

This wonderful sensation of peace flowed through me, and I floated out of my body. I was in a pediatric ward with two other girls and I remember looking down on each of them as they slept. Suddenly, a beautiful voice told me that it was not my time, that I had more to do and that I would marry and have a boy and a girl. I was also told that my life would not be easy, but I would never be alone. As I continued to look around from above, I saw a nurse come into the ward. She checked the two girls and when she came to stand beside me, she suddenly ran out of the room. I saw her return with other people who gathered around me. They began pushing my crib type bed out of the room and down the hallway. A long hose was placed down my throat and suddenly I returned to my body.	

Later that same year I began to experience Petit-Mal seizures that continued until the age of 17. I began for some reason to look for someone named Steve Smith, whom I later married in 1974. I had a boy in 1976 and a girl in 1980. In 1997, my husband was diagnosed with Carcinoid Syndrome, and later died in 2002 after retiring from the U.S. Navy Reserves after 26 years. He had been an Architect for many years in his family business.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Approximately 1960

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Following surgery to remove my tonsils and adenoids I began hemorrhaging and later a blood clot formed over my trachea preventing me from breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw the girls as they slept, and the hospital staff talking.  I lost awareness of my body  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I became totally aware of where I was, and what was happening to me much more so than any time before or since.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I floated out of my body, and heard the most beautiful sounding voice comforting me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to stand still when I heard the voice.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see much clearer than I normally would. I wore glasses until I was 12.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was much sharper.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very calm!  I felt incredible peace or pleasantness and incredible joy. I felt united or ‘one’ with the world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     As told above.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I grew up with a very strong faith and attended Mass every Sunday with my family.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I just seemed to know that there is life after death. I do not fear death.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I still have a very strong faith.  However, my religious background has been challenged with recent events.  (Children molested by Priests) I still attend Mass, but I lack trust in many of the clergy today.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Love

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I grew up with a very strong faith and attended Mass every Sunday with my family. I have become much more spiritual.  I still have a very strong faith. However, my religious background has been challenged with recent events. (Children molested by Priests) I still attend Mass, but I lack trust in many of the clergy today. I'm more determined!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Very loving and beautiful voice!

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I seemed to knew that there are other lifetimes.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Does exist!

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I just knew that God existed.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   During my NDE I learned I would have seizures, my son's ADHD, my daughters scoliosis surgery, the early deaths of my grandfather, father and husband (at the age of 58), 1958, 1985, and 2002.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To always help others, and help the dying know that they do not need to be afraid of dying.  That someone will always be waiting for them on the other side.  Since that time I have experienced the death of four family members.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I just seemed to know that there is life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     My seizures, my son's ADHD,, my daughters scholiosis surgery, the early deaths of my grandfather, father and husband, 1958, 1985, and 2002 at the age of 58.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Always show love toward others.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life, I no longer fear death! I only worry about not doing everything I am meant to do on earth.     Large changes in my life, I no longer fear death! I only worry about not doing everything I am meant to do on earth.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more compassionate toward others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was not able to talk about the experience for many years.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to sense when spirits are around me. I am often able to hear them, as well.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Experiencing that loving and gentle voice!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After I married my husband! Those that I have shared this with were amazed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was a child, so I wasn't sure!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real, because I had another OBE in 1983.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In 1983!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       To always help others, and help the dying know that they do not need to be afraid of dying. That someone will always be waiting for them on the other side. Since that time, I have experienced the death of four family members.  God definitely exists. I seemed to know that there are other lifetimes. I remember as if it was yesterday!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sally_s_nde_7460.html