{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sam_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Sam J NDE 2405","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sam J NDE 2405  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sam J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						719  Sam J NDE  2405  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I am in the emergency room lying on the examining table when the nurse over my shoulder said, 'We lost him. He's gone.' I remember 'seeing' the doctor jump on the table, double up his fist and strike me in the chest. I felt no pain. The nurse over my shoulder spoke again and said, 'You hit him too hard, you broke his sternum.'

At that point, I heard a voice in my head say, 'Let go and everything will be fine.' I let go and trusted that voice.

The next thing I remember was being in x-ray and the staff trying to prop me up to take a picture of my chest. The next thing is they are taking me on the gurney from x-ray to the intensive care unit. The lights on the ceiling are flashing as we passed under them. Then I heard the same nurse over my shoulder say, 'We've lost him again.'

Once in the intensive care unit, I left my body and went into the corner of the unit.  I watched as they shocked my chest. 3-2-1 pop! Again 3-2-1 pop.

Then I left the room. No tunnel. For me it was like going to sleep and going right into a dream. I went into this room bathed in gold white light that reminded me of a library. There was this entity (who I believe was my God) sitting at a large table that looked like an architecture table. I was below the table looking up at this entity. He looked down at me and said. 'What are you doing here? When I want you, I will come and get you. Now go back.' Then he stuck out his foot and kicked me in the head. His foot had a sandal on it that looked to be made out of an old tire. The next thing I remember then is looking eye-ball to eye-ball at the doctor.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1985  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Being stupid.  Anger overdose.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Overdose.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The thing that I questioned most over the years was if I no longer had a body how could I see or feel anything. I had none of the five senses without the body. I knew I couldn't die because I didn't know what unconditional love was.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       For most of the experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    None of these questions make any 'sense' to me. I had no body. Thus, I had none of the five sense. I can't tell you how that works, it just does.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See the experience above.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The yellow white light of the room I went to.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     The Library  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None. Once I had let go there was no emotion.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have walked away from organized religion. I know there is a supreme being and I know I am protected.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have walked away from organized religion. I know there is a supreme being and I know I am protected.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It's still unfolding every day. I know there is life after life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     The dream world has always brought me insights. The most significant moment in my life has been in the dream world. I have won money in the lottery from dreaming the numbers. My ex-wife gave them to me. True story.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        To have had the experience without having a physically body. To heighten all my sense so every experience is a multi-sensory experience. To learn to be able to recognize unconditional love without a body, i.e. the five senses.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    From the first day. Reactions vary and have changed over time. It's my job to share the experience I had. People take what they will from the experience. All I am to do is to share it with them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   You can read all you want to about a NDE but until you have actually had one it's like trying to tell another what an ice-cream cone is like when the don't even know what ice-cream is.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     From the get go. That sense of knowing. I just knew. The NDE requires no 'faith or belief' on my part. It's a plain and simple a fact. I had watched up until that time four or five people die including my mother. Their experiences of dying were similar, it didn't matter what their beliefs were. Spirit came to them in a form that their conscious minds could accept. Whatever that may have been.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As I grow older and experience more it just confirms more and more what I had experienced. I have had a couple more experiences since this event. Just this year in January, I crashed a town car. Totaled it. I hit a patch of ice and the car hydro-planed. When the car went out of control, I heard that same voice. 'Just relax and everything will be just fine.' Well I wound up in the bottom of a ditch looking up at my ass hole and thinking, 'This is your idea of 'fine'?' I opened my eyes and saw no blood. Wiggled my toes and they worked, and then my fingers and they worked. Did a mental inventory and nothing hurt. Then I couldn't get out of the car fast enough. Had to go over the back seat and out the passengers' back door. I did not feel that entity there so I knew I wasn't going to die.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   See above.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nope.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sam_j_nde.html