{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sam_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sam B Probable NDE 210","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sam B Probable NDE 210  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sam B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1420 Sam B Probable NDE 210  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Well it started on a week end I went to the cinema in the afternoon with my uncle and cousins. When I came out of the cinema, I had a very bad head.

That evening my mum and dad took my brother and me to my Nan's house for the weekend. I still felt ill that night. My mum thought I was because I had eaten so much junk food in the cinema that day.

Well the next morning maybe around 10:00 am my mum and Nan walked up the road to the small local corner shop. I went with them. As we walked into the shop, I asked my mum to hold me in her arms as I felt really strange and weak. She thought I was being lazy and just didn't want to stand around waiting in the shop. Then all of a sudden, I passed out and hit the floor. The next thing I knew I was in my Nan's bed violently throwing up.

The local doctor was called and when he came up to see me he picked up some of what I had been throwing up and said, 'This is the lining of his stomach. Get this boy to hospital NOW!' With that, my dad picked me up in his arms and me got into the back of my granddad's car and rushed me off to the hospital. On the way to the hospital, our car was pulled over by the police for speeding but when my dad showed me to the policemen, we had a fast police escort to the hospital.

While in the car in my dad's arms, he had to keep slapping me to keep me awake. Once at the hospital my lips where blue and veins had collapsed and they couldn't get a needle in to me. They tried a few times and had no luck and I was drifting further and further away. That's when I was in the tunnel. I was myself lying on my back as though I was standing alongside my body. As I lay there looking up into the light it was a CALM feeling -- no fear whatsoever, just calm and an understanding of what was happening. As I stood there, I could see myself slowly rising up staring right into the light. Wow I can see it just like yesterday!!! Since then I feel at one with many things that other people don't realize; such as sounds; feelings like I can feel how someone else is feeling like a kind of heat that you would feel when standing close to a fire or a radiator. And I can expand my mind kind of in a way that I can see things from a different angle; it's hard to explain without sounding nuts.

Well there is more but I think I've gone on long enough. Hope this makes sense to someone. Bye, Sam.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  03.05.84

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death violently vomiting. Ripped the lining of my stomach.  Burst a blood vessel and had to have a blood transfusion .  My breathing almost stopped and I was drifting out of consciousness. Had to be slapped to keep me awake, until blacking out.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was standing beside by body as it was lying flat on floor.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious but in the experience I was fully awake.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I very faint humming ringing noise and a soft warmth.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I rose up through a tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Just it didn't hurt my eyes at all. It was a white light, a kind of soft glow.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm and aware and very peaceful.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Definitely.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I feel that SEEING is believing. I now always trust MY instincts.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Mainly feeling peoples' emotions without them knowing and sensing strong vibes.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of calm and the sense of energy I felt from the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just a couple of mates but they don't really understand much and I didn't go into detail.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Live life to the full and before you believe it anything else you must first believe in yourself!!!!!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A good question would be, 'With the gifts you feel you have now since your NDE what do you want to do with then?'  1. Suppress them.  2. Explore them.  3. Develop them to help others in life who can't do what you can.  (As I know that I want to explore them and develop them to help others, very much so!!!)    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sam_b_probable_nde.html