{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sam_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Sam B NDE 20624","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sam B NDE 20624  			  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sam B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						540  Sam B NDE  20624  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Northwestern College, Evanston, IL Sponsored-Sailing Nationals, Top 10 schools in town for the event.  Water temp. was 41 degrees, snow on the ground.  The mood was intense and the elements were tough.  Our boat capsized: 'A Flying Junior' small craft, sloop rigging, two man operation.  As the captain, I attempted to recover the boat from flipping and in doing so, I was tossed underneath the sail as the vessel capsized. (Personal floatation devices were present and being used by both of us.)  Garments were not selected for submerging, only for the air elements.  Time was of essence but not on my side.  After 9 quick minutes of persistence, maneuvering became difficult.  My limbs seized, my chest grew tight my efforts were useless.  Time was now about 14 minutes: the water got warm...bright flowers glowed in front of my vision, soon after covered by a frost-like haze.  I pushed out a softly spoken 'Help' only for myself to hear.


At the next moment...'She has no pulse, she's a led weight, start counting!1!2!3!4....I watched and heard a woman in a orange jacket, letters on her back, US Coast Guard was talking to me, for a brief moment.


Arriving at the boathouse I was jostled and at that moment I started hearing people talk again.


2 years later I took a class in college, Death & Dying, where I was asked if I had experienced any near death situations.  My instructor informed me that I had an out of body experience, as if I was unconscious, I wouldn't have seen or heard anything, much less looking down on a woman's back to see lettering on her orange jacket. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    11/24/1983

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Some to none and back.

The experience included:      Light

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      intense power, serenity

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   very little belief in religion, excepting of family's views

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   I have found my spiritual direction

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I've come to believe that everyone need a higher power to exist.  Mine is internal.  When I spoke of help, I was talking to my soul to give me the adrenalin to fight back

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Hypothermia, Cardiac exhaust, unconscious for about 49 seconds

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Realizing later what occurred and slipping back to that point in time and see it happening for the first time and making sense.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Shock but respect that my words were my truths.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Everything happens for a reason.  I am still a great sailor!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sam_b_nde.html