{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1salomon_nde.html","mytitle":"Salomon NDE 2571","mylang":"de"}
          	        Salomon NDE 2571  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Salomon NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						826  Salomon NDE  2571  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I used to be addicted to morphine, codeine, and painkillers like that and overdosed on morphine and codeine when I was eighteen. My friends couldn't take me to a hospital, because they would need to report the overdose to the police. I was in the bathroom when I died, sitting on the closet. I pulled the rig out and waited for the rush to come but I felt very sick and there was a terrible pain in my heart and I figured I couldn't breathe. I remember I was thinking they say how a 'golden shot is the ultimate hit', 'best way to die' etc., etc., but that was just bullshit. Suddenly I blacked out. I woke up some time later; I thought I was sleeping on the floor for a long time. Then I realized, something had changed. This wasn't the 'world' (or should I say reality?) I was in before I overdosed. I stood up and saw my dead body lying on the floor. I thought, 'F*#$ I'm dead.' I got very angry, I was angry with myself. I remember telling myself, 'You killed yourself at last you stupid fool,' like dying is a very normal, ordinary thing. While I was watching myself, I saw my friends came into bathroom. I saw them slap my face, trying to find my vein to administer Naloxone. I realized there were lights coming from my dead body. Suddenly I felt very happy, like I was never before. The light, coming from my body started to getting brighter.

Slowly the light covered everywhere, I couldn't see anything. There was just this light of perfection and the happiness myself. It's hard to tell this, but I was connected to this light somehow. We became one perfect being. We didn't talk to each other but I understand what they said and I knew they understood me. I thought we were like God, we were so perfect. I remember telling myself how I'm stupid because of all those drugs I shoot just to be happy, feel myself okay. And then they/he said that I'd have to go back, but I tell them/him I don't want to. They/he said, 'We will meet again someday.'.

I woke up next day, I was in my friend's bed. I thought it was a dream but it wasn't like dream. It was like a memory from the past, a wonderful journey, the happiest trip I've ever done. They told me after I recovered, my skin got bluish and I couldn't breathe and my heart stopped for about four to six minutes.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 don't remember  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         OD  Other I'm not sure, I didn't/couldn't go to hospital because they report the overdoses to police but I couldn't breath and my heart stopped, not sure maybe 4-5 minutes  I was overdosed on codeine and morphine.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was connected with something, one perfect being, we talked to each other without using any words.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When that sweet light covered me I was HIGHLY ALERT.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     The time was different I guess but can't explain.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Can't describe.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sounds, or can't remember.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I meet 'something'.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was coming out from my dead body, and then it started getting brighter.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not sure, after the light covered me, I couldnt see anything cause I didnt have to..  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A little anger at first then happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   --  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   --  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All of my questions, I wanted to be answered before my death were answered. Why are we here in this universe? Are there other beings in this galaxy? Is death an end? Sort of things like these.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Never told anybody, they don't believe me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It's the feeling, this can't be described with words. It was an invisible connection between me and something else, something lovely, something warm, something very, very intense.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        After I was lost in the light and couldn't see anything and I realized I didn't have to see or touch or taste or smell. Just being, connected with, this wonderful light of enlightenment felt so good.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    They don't believe me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Well morphine causes very realistic dreams (like day dreaming, very alert dreams) but this wasn't one of those.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Morphine and codeine.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm not afraid of dying anymore because I know death isn't the end, far from it. It's another beginning. 'Life never ends', this is what I've learned from my NDE.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1salomon_nde.html