{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sally_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Sally S NDE 21484","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sally S NDE 21484  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sally S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1041  Sally S NDE  21484  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My blood pressure dropped out while having an operation to remove a cyst off my lower spine.  I floated out of my body and was watching as if I were watching TV. The medical team work on me to revive me. I got bored watching, and I felt a slight pulling sensation and I started floating toward a soft mellow light in the distance.  Along the way, I felt the presence of positive beings of light and soft beautiful music playing all around me. I felt happy and wanted to reach the light, then I heard, (or felt), a voice, (but inside my head), tell me that I must go back into my body because it was not my time to pass over yet. There was something that I still had to do on Earth - and with that, I was sucked back into my body and awoke on the operating table to the astonishment of the doctors working on me.  A few years after the operation I became friendly with my doctor, and during a social encounter he told me that I had actually died on the operating table before being revived! I told him what the doctors were doing and saying during the time that they were trying to revive me.  He was totally freaked out.  He said that I was ‘dead’ and how could I have known what was being said and done, (because what I had told him that occurred was exactly what had happened in the Operating Room).

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1976

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death .  My blood pressure dropped out and I died on operating table. I floated up to the ceiling and watched the medical team trying to revive me, and then I started floating down a sort of tunnel made of diffused light toward a brighter light. Everything felt warm and there was soft music all around. The next thing I knew I was being sucked back into my body and I knew I was sent back for a purpose and that it was not my time to pass yet.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt totally conscious and aware.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt that I was floating for a long time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just beautiful soft music, sort of like a choir but not the same, hard to describe because I have never heard or felt this before or again.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Not actually see with my eyes, more felt other beings of light radiating what I can only describe as Love.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was a soft diffused light all around but a brighter light ahead in the distance (but still not extremely bright).

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could feel and sense things rather than actually see and hear.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Calmness and oneness with everything.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I felt oneness with ‘the universe, God’ whatever one may call this.  A few years after this experience, I experienced a series of Prophetic Dreams - which are now becoming fact.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did know what the medical team were doing and saying while they were trying to revive me.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I do not wish to elaborate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I believe God or an Angel of God told me I must go back, (I felt this rather than heard it).

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I now believe we are all part of a whole, and a change of consciousness will occur very soon in the entire human race.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have prophetic dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I am not afraid of death because I know for a fact there is a much higher plane of existence that we all go to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Close friends and relatives who I believe have had similar experiences themselves.  Their reactions for the most part were to believe what I said.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I do not wish to elaborate.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Just to say ‘we are all one’.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sally_s_nde.html