{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sam_j_nde_7352.html","mytitle":"Sam J NDE 7352","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sam J NDE 7352  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sam J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3741 Sam J NDE 7352  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Physically:  I had been in a deep coma for eighteen hours with no brain wave activity and my heart had stopped working on its own.  I had a Living Will in place and the medical staff informed a family member that there was ‘no chance’ of making a recovery and that it was time to turn off the machines.  I was told later, after they had turned off the machines and had taken out the tubes that I took one deep breath and regained total consciousness five minutes later, wanting to know if I could go home.  

Spiritually:  This wasn't my ‘first’ time (2005) having a NDE.  The ‘feeling’ of going home was there.  That was the whole point.  I cannot relate this from a ‘memory’ point of view.  If the brain is has no activity then the mind is dead.  What is left?  Conscious awareness.  I went to where I have always gone on every NDE I have ever had. For the sake of argument, let's call it the Center of The Universe.  I have worked at turning duality into one energy for a long time.  

Marrying knowledge and logic to the intangibles: Love, creativity and imagination into one energy called conscious awareness/Wisdom and integrating that energy into my own Spirit.  I am there testing out that energy described above.  There are other ‘light bodies’ illuminated in different colors and of differing shapes and intensities.  I began to experience an energy, I know all too well, drawing near.  I tried my best to ignore the energy but Creator/God/Great Spirit is a little hard to ignore.  

Creator/God/Great Spirit said to me, ‘You’re going back.’  Exercising my free will and choice (Yes, I have that kind of relationship with Creator/God/Great Spirit that I feel just fine talking back) I said, ‘No I'm not’  Creator/God/Great Spirit said, ‘Yes you are.  I have 'stuff' for you to do.’  With that, a bolt of energy came out of the energy form and zapped me.  

I often mediate on that moment that the bolt hit me.  It takes me back to the moment when Creator/God/Great Spirit and I were one.  I had the sensation of falling back through a black void to a small dot of white light screaming, ‘Define 'stuff'!’  

Nine months earlier, I spent seven days in a coma due to a depletion of potassium.  I was taken off life support then.  The only awareness I came back with was to write three essays answering the questions: who am I?  Why I am here and where am I going?  Wrote the three essays and graduated from the ‘human experience’ or so I imagined.  I have recovered one hundred percent physically and mentally.  I have no ill effects from either experience of being taken off of life support.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Other: For eighteen hours my heart was not working on it's own and I had no brain wave activity.  I was taken off of life support.  I was taken off of life support. No brain wave and my heart wasn't working on its own.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  Well sort of.  When I was in the ER and they put that thing down my throat, I was aware of that.  Then they gave me ‘the shot’ and I couldn't move.  I wasn't getting enough air and there was nothing I could do about that.  The little voice that has got me through these things before said, ‘Just relax and it will be ok.’  At that point I lost all consciousness.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Understand that where your conscious awareness is focus in your everyday life pretty much determines the level of consciousness and alertness.  If your mind has a stranglehold on your conscious awareness then heck, it will be one helluva wake-up call.  But if you have made the conscious effort to move your awareness away from the mind to the heart then it's no big deal.  In other words if you have made the physical world and the world of Spirit into one consciousness then you are always of both worlds and never of either world. DO NOT GET THE WORLD OF SPIRIT (intangibles) AND ALIEN WORLDS (knowledge and logic) CONFUSED.  THEY ARE TWO SEPERATE WORLDS.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before I was sent back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   In a reality where there is no duality there is no time.  Time needs duality to exist.  Without duality there is no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When you no longer have a physical body there are no eyes, only: awareness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Only a black void on my back.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only different forms of energy.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   You want me to describe Creator/God/Great Spirit?  Is that what it is you are asking?

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just what I termed up above as The Center of The Universe where the tree of life is.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It takes two components to have emotions.  One is a physical body (the five senses) and two is duality.  The question I get asked most is, ‘What is it like being in Spirit?’  My answer is, ‘It is a reality without duality’.  Most cannot grasp what that is like.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     In a reality with no duality it's all about energy.  Those who have integrated duality into one energy ‘glow’ much brighter than those who haven't.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   For me I made my choice when I left this body.  I had no choice about returning.  I keep being sent back.  I was taken off life support twice and I am still here with no ill effects.  I don't want to be here but here I am so I might as well have as much fun as I can doing 'stuff' for Creator/God/Great Spirit.  Am I having fun doing this? Of course, I am or I wouldn't be doing it.  If I can make the difference in just one Spirit’s journey to enlightenment, I'm in for the game.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Native American religion   I have always been drawn to the Native American religion and now I am a medicine man/ shaman.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've become a Medicine Man/Shaman.  I didn't set out to do that.  It just happened.  It took five years to earn that right.  As the Medicine Man that helps me along the way, said, ‘I have never seen Great Spirit test anyone like you have been tested.’  He calls me a white man's Medicine Man.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Native American religion   Medicine man/Shaman.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I don't harbor "beliefs".  It takes way to much energy to maintain "beliefs".  If I can't turn a belief into knowing after a period of time, it's not for me.  Doesn't mean that the belief isn't valid it's just not valid for me.  There are many paths to enlightment.  Not all things mean the same thing to each that tries to make that journey to enlightment.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It just reinforced what I already knew.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I'll give it a shot for you.  Imagine a three dimensional ball of intense energy made up of golden white light.  In the center of the ball is a figure of a person (could not tell if it was male or female but just a figure).  Around the ball were smaller balls of energy traveling in different directions and made up of all different colors that circled the outside of the ball.  In my other NDEs, what ‘form’ Creator/God/Great Spirit took was whatever.  Didn't and doesn't matter.  The point is the energy that the form emitted.  Once you have ‘experienced’, that energy form doesn't matter.  I know who it is by recognizing/knowing the energy the form emits.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I like Bach answer to this question in the book Illusions where he describes the human experience like going to a movie.  I resonate with that.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It's all about energy and all energy that emanates from Creator/God/Great Spirit is interconnect.  After that it all comes down to awareness.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     See the answer for 18.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   Nothing special.  Wisdom is there for everyone willing to make the effort.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The human experience?  It takes a physical body to be able to marry knowledge and logic with the intangibles God, love, creativity, imagination into one energy that I label conscious awareness or as the Buddhist say Wisdom.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Yes     From my own experience rather than making "earthly life" and the "after death life" two separate realities make them one reality.  Be of both worlds and be of neither world.  I use to explain it this way.  When looking at a glass of water do not judge the

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     To sum up and KISS (KEEP IT SIMPLE Sam) it: this is just what I have learned from my experiences.  We all are star seeds sent here to have the human experience for the purpose of integrating conscious awareness/wisdom into our own light bodies and return home with this energy.  Alien worlds for the most part run on knowledge and logic.  Those worlds are being left behind and giving way to the worlds who have the intangibles, love, creativity, imagination and so on.  Have you ever heard of anyone who has encounter a alien being who has shown you a book?  Played music?  Laughed or expressed any emotion at all?  I haven't.  Do not get aliens and spirits confused.  They are two separate and distinct "things".

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The energy of materialism of the human experience is as addictive to a light body/spirit as crack cocaine is to the physical body.  That is why so many star seeds are lost.  They have lost all awareness as to who they are, where they came from and where i

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     As Sam said in the movie Ghost, "All you can take with you is love."  When you take a long look at what love is that is a heck of a lot.  All the intangibles or at least the energy of them.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life. To me and for me 43 through 49 come from the perspective that this world is the Genesis of creation and it's not.  It's just a movie we came here from which to learn.  If we don't learn, what it is we came here to learn then we get to do it over and over again until we do learn from the movie.  There is no way out until one learns what it is they were sent here to learn unless Creator/God/Great Spirit deems that no one left here is learning anything.  Time to flush the toilet and start over once more.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes When I tell my story most look at me and for the most part don't really know what to make of it.  I've been places and seen things that most never will.  They don't know what to do with it.  I try my best to keep it simple but what is simple to me is beyond most.  Unfortunately, I have no tact, so I come across as a know-it-all and that makes me sad.  I've paid one heck of a price to learn what it is I have learned so others wouldn't have to; it hasn't worked out that way.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   Coming from one reality they are all the same weather I have a physical body or not.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Just more ways to say the same thing.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The bolt of energy that came from Creator/God/Great Spirit.  I can go back into that awareness anytime I want.  When I really do get to go, home this will be my last conscious thought.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most can't get past the fact that I have been taken off of life support twice and lived to tell about it without any side effects.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I explained up above.  I'm just a slow learner and it takes me hitting my head against a wall more than once for me to ‘get it’.  Duh!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As I said above, just more ways to say the same thing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Was/is: There is no time.  It is what it is.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   With my awareness being focused on my heart awareness, it's all a part of the whole.  Knowing the energy of the experience it is easy to go back and experience it at any time.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Wisdom is there for anyone who wants it.  I am nothing special.  You just have to want it bad enough and keep focused.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sam_j_nde_7352.html