{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sally_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sally F Probable NDE 9527","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sally F Probable NDE 9527  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sally F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5128 Sally F Probable NDE 9527  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    There was everything and nothing; it was dark and light at the same time. I saw multiple colors while feeling tranquil and calm. I also had a feeling of complete peace and love. I felt like I was  an orb; of being separate yet joined to eternity. I felt like I had a knowing of everything that there is to know in the universe. 

It is extremely difficult to describe as the language doesn't do the experience justice. I wanted to stay there. It has remained with me for over 50 years.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1971  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.      Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I had a ruptured appendix  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It was a feeling of being in all-knowing eternity. I have never experienced anything like it, before or since.  

  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know., I was definitely unconscious from being given lots of ether in those days. Yet,  I was super-conscious during the experience as well.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time didn't seem to exist  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm not sure what this question means  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't have hearing, I didn't need it. It felt that bodily functions and organs were not needed.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     it was as if we were all orbs.  We were there but we were elsewhere, tied up into the eternity and light/darkness.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Infinite space, lack of physical objects or existence as we know it on earth. It was NOT a garden, or any recognizable place. I was just in this  all knowing, peaceful existence.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, tranquility, timelessness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.  It is      impossible to accurately describe  a oneness with all knowledge  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths:   atheist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

  What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths:   atheist  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am part of something much bigger than myself.  Whatever I do here on this earth is not relevant to what will happen afterwards.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

  During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes.     The timelessness went backwards as well as forwards. Time didn't exist in the way that it does in the physical world.  

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     an existence of being one with the universe. Everything is endless, both in the past and in the future. I had no concept of any religious being.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?       Yes, but it was not for me to fully understand at the time. Although, at the time I did understand, the sense of understanding remained with me for a short time (weeks) after the experience.  

  During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I am here to complete a cycle of timelessness. I came from where I saw myself as an orb, and I will go back there. I have a feeling that being here on earth is random and probably pointless.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     a certainty of eternity and timelessness, a completely different realm to what we know in our physical lives  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Completely boundless love, and peace and harmony. I felt utter belonging and safety  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It transcended language  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was able to see ghosts and predict that things would happen. This has worn off as I have got older.  

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The love, timelessness, silence and being an orb. I was there but not being there at the same time.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared shortly afterwards and ever since. Most people are not interested.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sally_f_probable_nde.html