{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sally_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Sally K NDE 22261","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sally K NDE 22261  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sally K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2348 Sally K NDE 22261  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My sister, my best friend and I had been swimming in the river.  Our father had told us not to do it, so in order not to get caught, my friend and I decided that we would ride on the hood of my sisters' car to dry off faster.  I don't remember falling off the hood, but my friend said she tried to get my sister to stop and she wasn't paying any attention.  I was dragged at least a quarter mile down a dirt road.  I remember all of the sudden I was sitting on the very top of the car, and I was looking down at myself stuck under the car.  I watched myself for a little bit and never saw myself move.  I was in no pain at all, as I sat there. 

The next thing I remember, I was back in my body with the most horrible pain.  My sister and my friend were looking at me screaming.  I remember waking up on my stomach, but my back from my neck to the backs of my knees were full of rocks.  I had no injuries on my stomach at all.  How I ever turned over, I have no idea.  Her car was very low to the ground.  I crawled out from under the car and spent at least four days in the hospital after having surgery to remove the rocks from my back.  I didn't tell anyone about what happened for the longest time, as I didn't want anyone to think I was crazy.  It's an amazing experience, and I'm no worse for the wear.  Thanks for listening.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     I'm not certain.  I was dragged under a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt none of the searing pain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total consciousness. I could see everything around me with perfect clarity.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was seeing everything so clear.  It was as if someone had turned up the colors.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Curiosity.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always had certain gifts as long as I can remember.  Such as foreboding right before something happens, but only some of the time can I pinpoint it.  I am a little leery of developing it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was being separated from my body and experiencing no pain, and the colors around me.  The worst part of course was re-connecting and experiencing the pain of the accident.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    But only with my 3 sisters. They were very interested.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sally_k_nde.html