{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 9497 6756 9329 5680","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_may_1889_supplement.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 Supplement May 1889","mylang":"de"}
Supplemeut.) On a Series of Experiments at Pesaro. 549
SUPPLEMENT.
ON A SERIES OF EXPERIMENTS AT PESARO.
I.
INTRODUCTION.
I propose to give some account of a series of experiments which
have been carried on during a number of years at Pesaro, a small town
on the east ooa.st of Italy, a little to the north of Ancona.. These
experiments are partly concerned with automatic writing, partly with
spirit;-rapping, and partly with hypnotism.
It will conduce to clearness if some information is first given as to
the persons concerned, and the materials from which my account of the
experiments is drawn. Professor Rossi-Pagnoni is Director of the
Ginnasio or Public School at Pesaro. In the year 1871 he was led, by
circumstances which need not be here detailed, to take an interest in
Spiritualism, and began daily to practise automatic writing under the
advice and direction of a friend who had frequently obtained communi-
cations from spirits, as he believed, by that means.
In his experiments in automatic writing Professor Rossi used
what is, I believe, the most usual method. He held a lead pencil in
his hand, allowing its point to rest on a sheet of paper, but not touch-
ing the table with his arm, and waited for results. For the first
43 days of experiment the movements of the pencil were incoherent
and unintelligible. On the 44th, a name was written; and from
that time onwards the facility and distinctness of the writing increased,
and communications of considerable length were often obtained.
These experiments, and also experiments in table-rapping, which
had been tried by Professor Rossi and a small circle of friends, were
discontinued in the year 1877, owing to the increased claims ofscholastic
duties upon the Professor's time. In 1886 he found sufficient leisure to
resume them; and he was then joined by some former members of the
circle, and also by others. Among these was Dr. Moroni, who has
been for 30 years Municipal Doctor at Pesaro. Dr. Moroni had
been in the habit of hypnotising a woman named Isabella Carzetti;
and hypnotic experiments with this subject were added to the others.
The hypnotic experiments were at first directed towards the observa-
tion of physiological phenomena.. After a time, however, results
Digitized by Coogle
550 On a Series of Experiments at Pesaro. [SuppJem.t.
believed to be spiritualistic were ob~ed; and spiritualistic seances,
with Carzetti in the hypnotic state as a speaking medium, are con-
tinued regularly at the present time.
In the year 1877 Professor Rossi published a pamphlet entitled,
Inturno ai Fenomeni Spiritici, Lettera 011' Orwrando Signor ConU
Terenzio Mamiani. This containS, besides other matter, reports of
the more striking results obtained in the earlier series of experiments,
which were concerned chiefly with automatic writing. A second
pamphlet, entitled, Alcuni Saggi di .Median~ Ipnotica, was published
in 1888, by Professor Rossi and Dr. Moroni. This contains a.ccounts
of hypnotic seances with Ca.rzetti as medium. Professor Ro~ has in
his possession a number of documents bearing on the occurrences and
experiments related in these two pamphlets. They are written and
signed by persons concerned, and confirm, supplement, or correct the
published accounts. Copies of these documents have been sent by
Professor Rossi to Mr. Myers, with a legal certificate that the copies
are correct, and that the originals bears the signatures of persons who
are known and respected.
In November last I paid a short visit to Pesaro. I was most
kindly and cordially received by Professor Rossi and his friends, and
was present at three seances, with Can'.etti as medium and Dr. Moroni
as hypnotiser. I took notes of everything of importance that occurred
at these seances; and also had the opportunity of seeing and making
extracts from the records of previous seances, and other documents.
Among these were the original automatic manuscripts, which have
been preserved from the beginning.
These, then, with the addition of several letters from Professor R()88i
to Mr. Myers and myself, are the materials for the following account of
the more important experiments.
II.
AUTOMATIC WRITING.
The following case, in which a similar message was received
independently, in automatic writing, by Professor Rossi and a friend,
ia rela~ by the former (Letter to Hamiani, p. 130):-
One evening my hand unexpectedly wrote the Dame of a very dear friend
who waadead. He gave me news of himself which waa far from joyful. Some
evenings later he returned, expr8118ing himself to the _me effect. I spoke
of the matter in confidence toa friend, whose affection for the deceased W&8 no
18118 than mine, and whom I knew, from some worde which I had chanced to
hear, to be of like inclination with myself, and desirous to make trial of
automatic writing. Some time paased. and one evening, while I W811 evoking
my aoouetomed spirit [i.e., another friend whose name frequently appeared
in the scripts]. my hand instead wrote the name of the dead friend
mentioned above, who told me that his condition waa happily
Digitized by Coogle
SapplemeDt.) On a Series 0/Experiments at Pesa'l'o. 551
changed. The following morning (December 10th), as I waS walking,
I met in the Piazza the friend to whom I had confided the previous com-
munications of the same spirit. He no sooner saw me than he asked, "How
long is it since you had communication with so-and-so' .. " A propos/ he
came yesterday evening and said that his state was changed for the better...
"Know," replied my friend, "that yesterday evening he came to my house,
too, and told me the same thing. I had set myself down for the first time
to make " trial, without evoking anyone. Before telling you of this I asked
you that question, because, aa this communication of mine did not agree
with your previous meuage, I 8U8pected that either you or I had been
deoeived... We showed one another the scripts. At an interval of two or
three hours we had both received the same unexpected announcement. My
friend wrote with his own hand an account of the occurrence, and gave it to
me.
In confirmation of this account are two document&, signed by
Ferdinando Spadoni.' The first is apparently the narration referred to
by Professor Rossi. It bears no date, and runs as follows :-
On Saturday, December 9th, 1871, at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, having
desired to try for the first time to write by spiritualistic means, I did not
expect any positive result from that experiment. However, when I had set
myself to the attempt, without any invocation, to my extreme surprise I
saw produced with wonderful rapidity the name of ..4.leuandro Patetm, and
in the second line, "God has panioned me."
(Signed) F. SPADONI.
The second document is dated December 26th, 1888. Ferdinando
Spadoni states that he is "the friend" mentioned in Professor Rossi's
account of the occurrence, and that the account is perfectly true.
It is to be noted that in this case Spadoni knew the name of the
friend, and the purport of the former message: that the second message,
though said by Rossi to be unexpected, was not an unnatural sequel to
the first: that the wording of the messages was not the same: 1 and
that the coincidence of time was not quite exact. Rossi's message was
received at 8 p.m., and the interva~ therefore, was four hours.1
The next case is somewhat similar in character (Letter to Mamitmi,
p. 131):-
In April, 1872, a friend asked Rossi to evoke the spirit of a relation,
formerly living near Modena, who had been dead about two years. "I had
never known her," says RoBBi, "and my friend told me what I was to ask
her on his account. I did as I was asked, and after the answer was obtained,
to my great astonishment (for a similar thing had never happened before) I
felt my hand impelled to draw, one aft.er the other, two flowers, with their
little leaves. After this addio was written, and the movement ceased. The
1 The message written by Spadoni's hand waa "Dio mi ha perdonato"; while
Rossi's hand wrote, in answer to the question" Stai bene! ", "Aseai bene; in Best&."
I These facts appeared from the original record, which I saw a.t Pesaro.
Digitized by Coogle
552 On a Be'ries of Experiments at Pesaro. [8uppl_t.
following day I took the answer to my friend and told him of the curious
drawings. •Do not be surprised,' said he. •Know that she was very fond
of drawing, and also every time that she writes by my hand, she makes me
draw something.' "
This acoount isconfirmed by a document dated December 28th, 1888, and
signed by Cesare Peneguiti, barrister, who states that he is the friend men-
tioned by Rossi, and that the account of the incident is perfectly true in all
particulars.
With regard to the character of the writing produced, Rossi says
(LetUlr to 1lamiani p. 133);-
It is not necessary for me to say that my ordinary hand writing is ugly
and always of one pattern. Nevertheless, when writing as a medium, I
have had very various forms of caligraphy according as various beings made
communication. When these beings presented themselves again, often
unexpectedly and after a long interval, they reproduced their former
handwriting. Moreover, in that uncomfortable })Osition of hand and arm I
have had caligraphic forms 80 perfect that I could not reproduce them when
writing at ease. .
This statement by itself is too vague to be of much value as
evidence; but the following documents confirm it, and give more
precise information as to the persons whose writing was reproduced,
and as to the degree of likeness obtained ;-
I. Pesaro, January lit, 1889.
To Professor lWssi-Pagnoni :-
My dear friend Ercole ArtazU. who has now been dead for some years,
was a good writer, and a son of Luigi ArtazU. municipal accountant and at
one time public teacher of caligraphy, who died long since. I remember
very well that one day, in conversation, my friend Ercole assured me that
he had not before believed in Spiritualism, but that once he went to your
house and you showed him certain communications written in pencil: that
you said you had received these communications when evoking the spirit of
his father LUIgi, no other person being present; that in those pages he not
only recognised the elegant form of his father's handwriting, very different
from your writing, which is anything but beautiful; but that the flourish
made underneath the signature was exactly that which his father used; and
that he himself, who had for 80 long had it before his eyes, would have been
unable to reproduce it, at any rate with equal rapidity and freedom.
(Signed) CIBO GIOVAGNOLI
(TelegraI,bic Official).
This evidence is second-hand, but it is the best obtainable, as
Ercole ArtazU is dead. It is worth reproducing, if it be considered
in connection with the other documents which bear on the same
point:-
II. Pesaro, Jaflllw,nJ lit, 1889.
I have a lively recollectiun of having come sometimes to your house in
1873, to take part in spiritualistic experiments with the table and with
Digitized by Coogle
SuppJement.J On a SeM of Experiments at Pesaro. 553
writing. One evening, after some experiments with the table, I asked you
to summon my dear writing.master, Luigi Brunetti, to write. He had at
that time been dead for some years. You set yourself to try the
experiment, the pencil resting vertically upon the paper, and your wrist and
elbow raised. When the motion of the hand, which you &88ured us was
spontaneous, began, there appeared, after the signature of Brunetti, some
lines of writing of various sizes. The first was extremely small-so that a
magnifying gl&88 was neceBBSry to read it and to see its great precision. The
following lines were of middle size, and the last large. This, I recollect,
was a beautiful verse. I remember that I immediately bore witneaa to those
present-in accordance with the truth-that, specially in the larger charac-
Mr, the manner of writing and the hand of my dear master were clearly to be
acen.
So much for the trllth, which now, also, I willingly confirm.
(Signed) CLETO MAsINI.
Profeaaor of Writing and Book-keeping at the Royal
Technical School of Peaaro_
When I. was at Pesaro I saw the original MS. here referred to.
The writing was pretty and regular, and entirely different from
Professor Rossi's usual hand.
III.-This also is at second-hand, the original witness being now
dead:-
Pesaro, Jan1lary 211d, 1889.
I, the undersigned, well remember having heard several times from my
father, Pietro Romei, who is now dead, the following account: He once
went to the house of ProfeBBor Ros.'!Ii, who showed him, amongst others,
certain communications which he (the Profe88or) said he had recoived from
the spirit of Dr. Roberto 'l'rafarti, who had long been dead. My father
observed not only the complete resemblance of those signatures to one
another, but also their entire correspondence with the actualsignaturesofthe
said Doctor, with which my father, as a chemist, was well acquainted. He
observed, further, below the signature a reproduction of the flourish [or
device--la dfm] generally used by him. He t<lld this to the Profe880r, and,
in confirmation of what he said, invited him to go to his pharmacy to see
some prescriptions of that Doctor's, which were still preserved. In
confirmation of the truth, I add my signature.
ROMEI Ro~lOLO, Chemist.
IV. Pesaro, January 2nd, 1889.
I comply with your wish and willingly declare, as I have a lively
recollection of the fact, that towards the end of 1873 I had occasion to go to
your house. You showed me certain communications, written in
pencil, which you said you had received from the spirit of the lamented
Signor Ale88&ndro Paterni, uncle of my wife. I said that the writing of the
name and surname seemed to me very like the real signature of my deceased
connexion. You &88erted that you had never seen his signature, and,' in
fact, it was very probable that it was entirely unknown to you.
PIETRO BoNINI, Captain.
igitized by Goog
554 On a Series of EflJperillumts at Pesaro. [Suppl-'-
In the following cases messages, apparently telepathic, were
received by means of raps and automatic writing.
(1) (Letter to Mamiani, p. 139):-
On November 14th, 1873, Profe880r Rossi was correcting the proofs of a
pamphlet, when he heard a rap of a kind which he believed to be spiritualistic."
In consequence, he sat down to write auromatically, and was advised to omit
some pages from the pamphlet by a measage prof8lllling to come from the
spirit of a person whose opinion he respected. Wishing to know whether
the m8ll8&ge really came from the source from which it purported to come,
he went to a friend, who wasa very good medium. "Without informinghim
precisely of the matter concerned, I told him that a short time ago I had
had a certain spirit which had given me advice with regard to
something I was printing. I affirm on my honour that I did not explain
myself more fully. I added that the advice appeared to me good and wise ;
but in order to assure myself of the identity of the spirit, I· begged him to
evoke it by himself, that he might question it on this point." The friend
undertook to send the answer by 8 o'clock next morning, and Rossi went
home. Half-an-hour afterwards he heard another rap, sat down again to
write, and received the following words, with the same name as before :-
.. You were deceived in my name, and you did well to seek the aid of
your friend, who will confirm the truth to you to-morrow."
Next morning Rossi received from his friend a note, containing the
answer given by the spirit: "It was not I who communicated with Rosai,
but another spirit, whom Rossi ought not to obey." Words were added,
clearly allusive to the special advice, which was unknown to the friend.
Rossi then compared the handwriting of the two measages which he had
received, and in the first of the two found differences from the usual hand-
writing of the spirit.
The accuracy of this account is confirmed by a letter from the friend in
question, dated January 2nd, 1889.
Here we have a similar communication, obtained by Rossi and his
friend. The friend, however, was aware that Rossi had some doubt.
as to the genuineness of the original message; and consequently it
is not surprising that each should receive a message confirming those
doubts. The words of that part of the friend's message which alluded
to matters unknown to him do not appear in the printed account. It
is, therefore, impossible for us to form an independent judgment as to
whether they can have been suggested by guess, or inference from the
facts of the case so far as they had been communicated to the friend.
(2) (Letter to Hamiani, p. 143):-
On November 21st, 1873, about half-past 10 in the evening, Rossi was ill
his study. He had been correcting proofs for more than an hour, and w..
tired and rather cold. In consequence he intended, when his wo~k was
finished, not to go to the cafl, &8 was then his custom almost every evening
about 11, but to warm himself a little with a walk through the streeta. He
then perceived two slight but very distinct mps close to him on a side door
Digitized by Coogle
SupplemeDt.) On a Series of Experiments at Pesaro. 555
opening into an inner room in which there was no one. He paid no attention
to these, trying to persuade himself that they were due to natural causes.
Half-an-hour afterwards he had finished his work and was going out; but at
the moment when he had his hand upon the door of his rooms, to shut it
after him, he heard a loud knock upon it as if given with the fist. He hl\d
no doubt that this was spiritualistic in character, and returning at once to
his room, Mt down to write. He fully expected to receive a warning against
going out that evening, for fear of some dangerous encounter. Instead, how-
ever, of any such warning the following melll!&ge appeared: .. My sincere
friendship'leads me to warn you that you are desired by S.l (i.e., Stanislao
Cecchi): go, therefore, to see him." This message was signed with the
name of a dead person in whose name m_ges had been obtained on other
occasions. Rossi collsidered it extremely improbable that Cecchi <an
acquaintance with whom he was not then intimate) would wish to see him ;
but went at once to the cafe where he was generally to be found at that hour.
As he approached, he MW Stanislao and some friends coming out of the cafe.
.. He had no sooner seen me," continueB RoMi, "than he came to meet me,
and Mid he had need of a certain favour from me. Knowing from
some converMtions which I had had with him that he was a disbeliever
(in Spiritualism), I caught at the opportunity and answered that I
would willingly do him the service, on condition that he woqld at once
accompany me to my house. • . We went to my house together,
we entered into the room t-ogether, and I showed him on my table the
message which had caused me to go in search of him. He
subsequently gave an account of the occurrence to some friends, though
without adopting my explanation, and so far as he was able, loyally bore
witne88 to ita truth."
Stanislao Cecchi is now dead, and therefore direct confirmation of
this account cannot be obtaiped. A sister of his, Clelia by name, is
the wife of Dr. Luigi Frigerio, Director of the Lunatic Asylum at
Alessandria. Dr. Frigerio was living at Pesaro in 1873, and Rossi,
therefore, applied to him to know whether he or his wife would
confirm the account. Dr. Frigerio writes as follows :-
December 27th, 1888.
CIelia remembers to have heard from Stanislao the strange event of which
you write to me. She does not, however, remember the particulars after
10 years [as a matter of fact it is 15]. I remember that Stanislao talked
to me about it in those days, and that when he was asked with reference
thereto, he replied that it was Unp088ible to doubt your convictions.
FRIGERIO.
The second confirmation is more precise; but in estimating its
value as evidence, it should be remembered that it is the record of a
conversation retained in memory for 15 years, and that Rossi's
1 I believe that the name, and not merely the initial, was written. The initial
only is given in the printed account, because at that tim'" Professor Roesi was not at
liberty to publish the name.
556 On a Series of Experiments at Pesaro.
account of the occurrence, printed in 1877, may have influenced to
some extent the recollections of the narrator.
Pesaro, Febrllartj 8th, 1889.
DEAR PROPESSOR,-According to your desire, I prepare with pleasure to
narrate the inexplicsble occurrence which happened between you and our
excellent friend, the engineer, Stanislso Cecchi, of good memory, more than
once told by him at that time to me and to others, with increasing
wonder. I CSDDot remember the preciae time at which the event happened,
but I think about 1873, that is 15 years ago, when our deceased friend, you,
and others, uaed to frequent the Cafe Masetti.
One morning Cecchi had no sooner Been me in the Piazza. than with a
very serious manner (unusual with him in speaking of such matters, in
which, as he used openly to say, he did not in the least believe) he said to
me, "Do you know, yesterday evening, there happened to me .
really curious . . . a thing . . . he's lucky who csn explain
it. . . . Yesterday I had it in my mind to go to ProfeBBOr Rossi's
house for some business of mine, but afterwards I put aside the thought, with
the idea of aeeing him in the evening. As I csme out of the Cafe Maaetti
late in the evening with some friends, I saw him coming towards me, and as I
naturally went to meet him, I observed upon his face a certain expression of
satisfaction, as if atsomething which happened according to his expectation.
I begged him eagerly to do for me a little piece of work, for the marriage of
a near relation of mine. After some hesitation Rossi agreed to. my request
on condition that I would go at once with him to his houae, where he wished
to show me something which would surprise me. Unwillingly I consented.
We went at once to his house, and without speaking he gave me to read a
short piece of writing which he said he had received from a familiar spirit of
his. In this he was told to go instantly in search of me, since I wished to
see him. . . • Obaerve also that I had not indicsted my wish to see
ProfoBBOr Rossi in any way to any living soul."
This event, which Cecchi at that time told more than once to me and to
others, made a very vivid impression, the more so that we all knew what a
character for truthfulne88, and I may almost say for rugged sincerity, our
excellent friend bore. Sometimes, when discussing this matter with friends
at the csfe he ended thus: "I don't believe anything, but here one cannot
but say •a fact's a fact.' "
I hope I have thus satisfied you, Professor, and I am glad to have been
able to do so, since I still preaerve a very clear recollection of the facts.
CARLO CINELLI.
(Cavaliere Carlo Cinelli, Member of the Communal Council, &c.)
The following is a summa.ry of Professor Rossi's account of another
occurrence, of a very similar character :-
(3) (Letter to Jfamiani, p. 144.)
On the evening of September 3rd, 1875, Rossi had been at the cafe till 8,
and had then gone home, not meaning to go out again that evening. After
an hour he heard two light raps of the kind which he was accustomed to
consider spiritualistic, and placed his hand with a pencil on the sheet of
paper in front of him. The following message was written: "I am A.O...
Digitized by Coogle
Sapplem8llt.) On a Se1-ies of Experiments at Pe801f'O. 557
{the name ofa friend who had been dead about a year), "and 1 wished to warn
you to return to the cafe, where your presence is desired." Roaai. noted on
the aheet of paper the hour and minute and went out. 011 the way to the
eaie he met Signor Gaetano Toai, a barrister, now filling a judicial post
(Cancelliere della Reale Corte di Caaaazione) at Palermo, and Signor
Zaniboni, directer of the Post Office at Peaaro. Toai at once called to him
by name, and aaid, "I was looking for you. 1 atart for Meaaina to-morrow,
and wished to aay good-bye. 1 have been at the cafe for half-an-hour till
just now, waiting for you to join ua, and 1 have inquired about you also
from the cafe-keeper." Roaai asked his two friends to wme to his house
for a moment. They came, and went with him into the room, where they
read the "telegram," which was dated four or five minutes before.
Signor Toai writes under the date November 11th, 1888, partly confirm-
ing and partly correcting this account. He aaya, referring to the paaaage
8UDlDllU"i.aed above; "The account which you gave in the Letter to Mamiani
is not absolutely correct, if 1 remember right, for 1 have not got it with me
at this moment. • . . 1 will correct the errora by narrating the facta
afreah.
"On September 4th, 1875, 1 had to leave Peaaro with my family for
Naples and Palermo. The day before 1 wiahed to take leave of all my
frienda. 1 could not see you in the day, but 1 hoped to meet you as usual at
the club. The evening arrived, and at a rather late hour I found myaelf
in the company of the lamented Cavaliere Zaniboni. I asked if he had aeen
you, and he replied that he had not. I aaid that I wished to go to your
house to aay good-bye, and Zaniboni offered to accompany me. We came
to your house together. • . . We knocked, and Angelica (the aervant)
opened the door to us, remaining at the top of the stair with the light.
While we were mounting the atair you appeared upon it ; and it was then
that you made ua come into your room, and showed us the so-called 'tele-
gram' of four or five minutes before, by which you were told to go to the
cafe (where Zaniboni and I in fact were), because your presence was deaired.
It was then that I said that if I had been with YOIl a little longer you would
have turned my head. This I said on account of another circumstance also,
which perhaps you do not remember. I did not find it mentioned in your
letter to Mamiani, and from that 1 conclude that you have confused a little
two separate occurrences.
" When we were living together in the Palazzo Mamiani" you will re-
member that almoat every evening after midnight we were at the club, and
went home together. One evening, in 1873 or 1874 (I do not remember the
exact date), I had in vain waited for you at the club till about one in the
morning,,and atarted home alone. As 1 was paaaing through the Piazza my
name was called by Cesare Peraeguiti, a barrister, who was at the door of the
cafe underneath the Palazzo Municipale. He aaid that he had been
waiting there about an hour, having urgent need to apeak with you, and
hoping to see you paaa with me. I replied that, contrary to our custom, 1
had not aeen you, and wenton my way. • • • A little afterwards • . •
1 met you. Being aurprised at your coming out so late 1 asked the reason,
and you answered that you were working and had not wished to"go out, but
that you had been compelled to do so, becauae a apirit had just warned you
Digitized by Coogle
558 On a, Series of Experiments at Pesa1'o. [Supplem8llL.
that a friend of yours was waiting for you at the cafe. I was astonished.
because I had not told you that Perseguiti was actually looking for you and
waiting for you at the cafe, and only told you of it afterwards. "
In a subsequent letter Rossi says that he may, perhaps, have con-
fused the two occasions mentioned by Signor Tosi, and that this may
account for the discrepancy as to the place where he met Tosi and
Zaniboni.
We have, then, two cases, and perhaps three, in which Rossi was
induced to leave his house" by an automatic message telling him to go
and meet a friend. The first question which occurs is, "Had ,Rossi
any reason to suppose that the friend wanted to see him 1"
In the first case, that of Cecchi, we have Rossi's direct statement
that "the last thing which would come into his mind, and the most
unlikely, was that Cecchi should be looking for him." In the second
case, RoBBi must probably have known of his friend's approaching
departure, and would naturally infer that he would wish to see him.
In the third case, we have no information, and no means of judging.
The value of the second case as evidence for thought-transference
or spirit-messages is thus much diminished, for if the thought that
Tosi wished to see him was present even indefinitely in Rossi's mind,
it might be produced in automatic writing. It may, however, be said
that the two raps which he heard could not be produced in this way.
I imagine that the same cause which on this hypothesis produced the
automatic message, might also produce an auditory hallucination.
But if we are to accept Tosi's corrections of Rossi's account, they may,
perhaps, be explained in another way. Tosi says: "We knocked at the
door," meaning clearly the street-door at the foot of the staircase. It
is not impossible that RoBBi, intent upon his work, may have mistaken
even so familiar a sound as a knock at the street-door for spi!it-
rappings. A little delay on the part of the servant in opening the
door would give time for Rossi to write the message, and meet them on
the stair. The" four or five minutes" which elapsed between the
writing of the message and the entry of the visitors is not a serious
obstacle to this view, for the vagueness of the expression shows
that the interval was not precisely noted.
The first case, that of Stanislao Cecchi, is much stronger. The
rappings were repeated twice; the second time loud. The message wag
, entirely unexpected; and there is confirmation of it, though necessarily
at second-hand and after a long interval.
If the facts are accepted as accurate, I think there are only two
admissible explanations-telepathic and spiritualistic; and if the
former of these be adopted, there is some difficulty with regard to the
raps.
It should be mentioned, further, that Rossi states that a message of
igitized by Goog
SapplmDeDt.J On a 8e')'ie8 of Experiments at Pesaro. 559
this nature, spontaneously given, has never proved false in his
experience.
III.
HYPNOTIC EXPERIMENTS, ApPARENTLY SHOWING THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE
AND SUGGEsTION AT A DISTANCE.
I now come to the second class of experiments, viz., those concerned
with hypnotism.
Only onesubject has been employed. Her name is Isabella Carzetti ;
but she is genera.lly called Aminta instead of Isabella. She was born
in 1845, and in 1870 she came to Pesaro as servant to a family there.
In 1883 she left service, and since then has lived with an aunt, working
as a sempstress and laundress. Professor Rossi and Dr. Moroni describe
her as fairly intelligent, but uneducated. They say that she' does not
read newspapers, but has read a few novels. In 1871 she had frequent
attacks of convulsions, and in 1873 a cataleptic stroke, caused by fright
at an earthquake. Dr. Moroni treated her successfully with hypnotism,
and in the course of his treatment observed other remarkable phenomena.
Of these, apparently, no systematic account has 'been preserved; but
they seem to have been of the nature of clairvoyance. Dr. Moroni
continued to employ her as a clairvoyant for the purpose of diagnosis,
after hypnotism had ceased to be necessary as medical treatment.
In 1886 Dr. Moroni renewed these experiments, which had then
been discontinued for some years, in company with Professor Rossi and
the other members of his circle. The experiments were at first physio-
logical, but after a time assumed a spiritualistic character. Professor
Rossi, Dr. Moroni, and their friends continue to hold seances regularly
once a week, with Carzetti as medium.
Among the accounts of these experiments there are several
incidents which give evidence for the possession of clairvoyant powers
by the medium.
On June 10th, 1886,1 at the first of this second series of experiments,
Carzetti came to RoBBi's house for the first time. She saw nothing but the
entrance-hall, in which she was hypnotised. In answer to questions, she said
that between the hall and the other rooms there was a narrow passage, but
not on the same level as the hall, since there was an ascent from it of five
steps, two of masonry and three of wood. Then she said that in the last
room she saw against the wall an arm-chair, and, in the middle, a little table.
When asked the shape of the table, she said it was round, and was used for
the evocation of spirits. The whole of this description was correct.'
On August 6th, of the same year, she described correctly the malady of a
1 Akuni Saggi, p. 5.
20
Digitized by Coogle
560 On a &ries of Experiments at Pesaro. [Supplemell~
peraon whose portrait was placed before her; and at the same ance she
described the appearance of the writer of a letter which was given to her"
In several cases the medium, at a distance from the table at which
some of the company were sitting, indicated beforehand the nature of
the communication which would be made by raps.
Thus at the aMnce of June 10th, 1&86,1 after describing the shape of
the table, which, it will be remembered, was in a room divided by a passage
from an entrance hall in which the medium was sitting, she Mid that it was
used for evoking spirits. She added, "There is now in that room a youth
who demahds to be evoked, and begs you to go there." Moroni and another
remained with the medium, while Roui and two others went into the room.
The two sat at the table, and a communication came from the spirit of a
Y9ung man who had been dead some months.
In this case those sitting at the table had heard the medium's
statement. The experiment, therefore, is of very little value so far.
'No sooner, however, was the mel8&ge finished than the movements of the
table became so irregular that no words were formed. At that moment one
of the two who had been left with the medium came with a mel8&ge from
her, telling them to leave the table, for the place of the first spirit had been
taken by an intruder, who could not or would not talk,
Here, again, we cannot be sure that the medium could not hear
what was going on in the room with the table; and the indication of
the moment at which the message came is not sufficiently precise.
Some other cases are not open to objections so obvious as these;
and seem to show thought-transference either from or to the medium.
Thus on July 30th, 1886,s two friends (one of whom confirms the account)
sat at the table, at some yards distance from the medium, evoking a spirit
called Livia. The medium made gestures, indicating that she saw a spirit.
Asked by Moroni in a low voice whom she saw, she answered, "A lady,
related to the shorter of the two at the table."
A mel8&ge was rapped out from Lucia, aunt of the peraon indicated by
the shortll818 of his stature.
The medium then whispered to Moroni that the spirit of a young man
whose name began with R had come to the table. A m8l8&g6 was received
froma young man whose name began with that letter. '
Here it is not definitely stated, but it is certainly implied, that
those at the table did not consciously hear the whispered remarks of
the medium. It is, however, possible that they may have heard and
reproduced with the table's raps indications of which they were not
conscious.
Again, on August 6th 4 of the same year, two friends sat at the table.
1 I do not give the details of these experiments because it does not appear certain
that the information given by the medium could not have been derived from the coo'
versation of those in the room, or from other natural sources.
I Alcuni Saggi, Po 6.
IAlcuni Saggi, pp. 6, 7.
• Aliluni Saggi, p, 8.
Digitized by Coogle
Sapp1em8llt.] On a Series of Experiments at Pesaro. 561
They evoked Lucia, and L W&II the first letter given. The medium whispered
to Moroni that the spirit was Livia, and that the word ringrazio would be
rapped out. Moroni took a note of this on a piece of paper, folded it with-
out speaking, and put it on a table. The word was rapped out, and was
found to correspond with that which Moroni had written.
The medium then told Moroni to take the place of one of those at the
table. He did so. Another person went to the medium and asked her what
spirit she would like. She answered, taking great care not to be heard,
" The Doctor's sister." The table rapped out Aiwnta, the name of a sister
of Dr. Moroni's, who W&II dead. She then whispered that Moroni's father
wished to manifest himself ; and the words, "I am thy father ; I may call
happy the moment of finding myself with thee," were rapped. She then
said that the spirit would rap one more word ; and one more word, addio,
was given.
The same criticisms apply to this experiment, except that we are
told that the medium took care not to be overheard. Nevertheless,
more stringent conditions are to be desired.
Another experiment, of a slightly different kind, seems also to
point to thought-transference. In this case we have an extract from
the original record, made at the time, and attested by the signatures of
those present.l
Two of the company sat at the table. The medium, who W&II not
hypnotised, expressed disbelief in the table-game, as she called it ; and said
she would believe in it if it would rap her real name, which was not
Aminta, as they believed. The name Isabella was rapped. The medium
was surprised, and said that this was her real name. It was unknown to all
those present except Dr. Moroni, who was not at the table.
In this case, however, it is not impossible that one of those at the
table may have heard the name, and forgotten it. Experience shows
that any fact once known, though entirely forgotten by the conscious
mind, may be reproduced by the automatic methods of writing or
table-rapping.
Next we come to cases of suggestion at a distance, and suggestion
without communication between the suggester and the subject.!1
On August 29th, 1886, in the course of a 1iMnC8 the medium,
hypnotised, said to Moroni, "Wake me up now for 10 or 15 minutes. Then
without sayinganything you will send me to sleep again." She was waked,
got up, and sat on a sofa. While the others kept her in conversation Moroni
went into another room, on the pretence of fetching a glass of water.
Thence he mentally suggested to her to go to sleepand to return to her usual
seat. When he came in again he found her in hypnotic sleep, and said,
"Why did you not obey completely ¥.. She answered, "I perceived the
order to return to my seat, but you did not leave me time to carry it out."
1 ..dlctmi Saggi, p. 10.
t ..dlcuni Sag¢. p. 12.
202
Digitized by Coogle
562 On a Series of Expe1-iment8 at Pesaro. (Supplement.
Here the hypnotic sleep may well have been the execution of a
deferred self-imposed command; but this does not account for her
knowledge of the second part of the order.
On September 5th, 1886, Rossi called out of the room a medical
student who was present; and the medical student called out Moroni.
Moroni tried from the neighbouring room to hypnotise the Bubject,
who was standing talking to the others who were preBent. She all
at once became silent and passed into the hypnotic Btate. One of
those to whom she WIUI talking came out and told thoBe outside
what had happened. Moroni and the Btudent then agreed to try and
transmit to her the command to shake Rossi's hand. The medium hesitated
for Bome time, moving alternately towards Rossi and towards the medical
student. Finally she went to the latter and Bhook hiB hand, to the surprise
of Moroni, who saw his command disobeyed. The student then explained
that, being afraid of collusion, he had mentally commanded the subject to
shake his hand instead of RoBBi's. The subject begged the hypnotiser'.
pardon for having disobeyed him, adding that she hacl perceived both
commands, but had obeyed the first, both because it was Btronger and also
becauBe it came from a disbeliever.
The force of this experiment is weakened by the fact that the two
suggesters were in the room at the time, and may have uncoIlBciously
indicated by gestures the nature of the action to he performed.
On September 12th Moroni arrived before the subject. and was taken into
another room. When Carzetti came, Bhe was told that Moroni had not yet
arrived. The Doctor made hiB pasBes from the room in which he was, and
the Bubject at once fell into the hypnotic sleep.
Again, on October 13th of the same'year, RoBBi, Moroni, and Signor Dilli
met by chance. It had not been intended to hold a seance that evening, but
theBe three agreed to try whether a suggestion could be transmitted from
RoBsi's house to Carzetti, who would probably be at home at that hour (about
8 p.m.). Moroni fixed his thoughts firmly upon Carzetti for BOme minutes,
and then, exhauBted by the effort, ceased, and said, "If Bhe has perceived
it, well-if not, patience." He then sat down to write automatically, and the
following wordB appeared: "She has perceived you, but not BO completely
as to satisfy your wiBheB. Someone must go to her, to prevent her from
passing a disturbed Kight. You will find her in the street, or at the window,
waiting in indecision."
Dini went to see her, on BOme !lxcuse, and came back saying that Carzetti
was out, and that the aunt with whom Bhe lived said that she had gone outa few
moments before to do BOrne Bhopping in the Piazza. The three then left
RoBBi'B house at 8.30, and RoBBi Beparated from the other two. These two
met Carzetti walking with a friend, and Djni asked her, "Where are you
going at this time of night 7" She answered, "I have come out impelled by
Bomething, I don't know what, which made me think that BOmeone was trying
to magnetise me." " Do you feel well now 1" " I am a little agitated; my
heart beats fast, and I have a feeling aB though my legB were tied." " And
where do you come from l10W 1" " Do not you see 1 I have come from the
Digitized by Ie
Bapplemeuto] On a 8elW of Experiments at Pesaro. 563
~intotheVia Sabbatini, and ifI hadfound the dooropenand a lightonthe
stairs of Roaai'& house, as on the evenings when there is a IMSance, I should
have gone upstairs."
If this account is accurate---and the latter part of it is confirmed
by an account written by Signor Dini, and dated Oct. 13th, ISS6-there
'C&ll be little doubt that we have here a case of suggestion at a
distance.
IV.
HyPNOTIC EXPBRIMBNTB, SPIRITUALISTIC IN CHARACTBR.
After a time the character of the seances changed. From the
experiments already related it will be seen that the medium in the
earlier period professed to see and hear'spirits, regarding them •
IOmething external to herself. Soon, however, she began to speak in
the first person, in the character of different <lead persons; in fact,. to
identify herself with the spirits, or, as Professor Rossi prefers to put it,
to act as the instrument through which spirits expressed themselves.
In this way, a large number of spirits---some of them professing to
be historical or distinguished persons, others relations of someone
present, or private persons who had died at Pesaro--have conversed
through the medium with Professor Rossi's circle. Records of these
conversations have been diligently kept, and a certain number of them
are reproduced in the pamphlet, Alcuni Saggi, ~c.
It may be useful first to consider for a moment the value of these
conversations as evidence.
It is clear that the mere fact that the medium speaks in the
character of certain dead persons proves nothing at all; nor is it of
much value evidentially that these impersonations were, in the opinion
of the auditors, decidedly successful. We must rely upon facts, not
characteristics. If the medium, when impersonating a spirit, mentions
some fact which was certainly not known not known to her by the
ordinary channels of knowledge, we have at least something new,
something which deserves further investigation.
It is, however, extremely difficult to prove that a particular fact is
not known to a particular person; the more so, that experience seems
to show that no record once made upon the brain is ever absolutely
effaced, and that memories lost to the ordinary waking consciousness
may be reproduced in the hypnotic, or other abnormal states. How-
ever faint the under-writing of the palimpsest may be, it may, at some
time, reappear fresh and strong. Besides present knowledge, therefore,
all past possibilities of knowledge must be taken into account.
So far as I cOuld judge from my own experiences at three seances
at Pesaro, I am decidedly of opinion that there was no conscious fraud
on the part of the medium; but this, of course, does not exclude the
use, in the hypnotic state, of knowledge derived from the conversation
Digitized by Coogle
564 On a SeM of Experiments at Pesaro. (SuPJll-L
of those in the room, 01' from other sources, for the purposes of im-
pel'SOnation. .
If, after giving due weight to these considera.tions, we find that she
mentions facts which she cannot have known through the ordinary
channels of information, it will- remain to consider what hypothesis, .
telepathic, spiritualistic, or other, is necessary to account for the
phenomena. It seems to me, however, that, in the present case, it is
unnecessary to go on to this further investigation, because it is
impossible satisfactorily to ests;blish the ignorance of the medium with
regard to the facts mentioned in the conversations.
I will therefore only give one example of this class of phenomena :-
• The spirit of a child, named Bettino, son of Prof88BOr Guidi, came
several times. On one occasion the following conversation took placebetween
Bettino and his father. "There is some one here who wishes me well-there
are two." . . .(Who are they 'I) "I don't know them. I have seen one,
papa, not the other. • • .1 saw him with such a lot offlowers." (Where 'I)
" Where so many people went-you were there, papa-It's he who
wishes me iJo well." (Where did you see the flowers 1) "Not where I am,
where you are • • • when he was dead. . • .No-one cannot say
d~."
The father then understood that he referred to the flowers which adorned
the funeral procession of Mamiani, an Italian statesman, a native of Pesaro,
who was buried there. (Where did you see the flowers 1 From the window 'I)
.. Y88, and in another place too." (In the camem ardetth1 Who took you
there 1) "My brothers, I think. . . .1 saw him through a hole • • .
the face. " (There was in fact a glaZed aperture in the coffin, over the face of
Mamiani.) "She who wished me well was with me too." (What was
her name 'I) "Santin&."
The father confirms the truth of this account and adds, "When, at that
seance, my Bettino said that he had seen Mamiani in the camera ardenU
through a hole and so on, taken there by Santin&, I frankly told my friend.
who were present that I did not know anything of it, and did not believe
that it had happened. When I reached home I asked my wife. She too knew
nothing of it, and undertook herself to question the maid Santins. Themaid
confessed that, impelled by curiosity, she had gone at a late hour to see the
camera ardetth, accompanied by Bettino, whom she could not have left alone
at home."
Could we be sure that Carzetti knew nothing of this, it would be
very striking; but it is always possible that she may have been among
the crowds which assembled to.see tlie camera ardente, and may have
seen the child Bettino there.
Other cases might be given, in which the detailed knowledge of
facts exhibited is certainly difficult to explain as the etrec~ of memories
unconsciously revived. But though difficult, this explanation does not
seem to me so clearly excluded as to render the proof of the action of
an alien intelligence decisive; and I have, therefore, not thought it
Digitized by Coogle
desirable to extend an article already somewhat long by reporting these
cases; though I shall watch with interest any further evidence of this
kind which the circle at Pesaro may produce.
I have already said that by Professor Rossi's kindness I was enabled
to attend three seances at Pesaro in November last. The seances were
successful in one way, for the medium talked freely in the person of
different spirits; but the matter of these conversations gave no support,
so far as I am aware, to the spiritualistic hypothesis entertained by
Professor Rossi and his friends. Some of the spirits impersonated by
the medium professed to be friends or relations of mine; and there was
therefore a good opportunity for the mention of matters of fact which
were unknown to the medium. None such were produced. All the
statements or allusions concerning my friends and relations were
either vague or incorrect.
It is therefore unnecessary to reproduce here any of my records of
these seances.
I must mention, however, two things which bear on the evidential
va.lue of the accounts of previous experiments published by Professor
Rossi During the greater part of the seances I wrote down, fully
and carefully, the conversations which took place. This was possible,
because the medium spoke slowly and with pauses. A comparison of
my notes with those made by Professor Rossi and his friends gave me
a favourable impression of the care and accuracy with which the
seances were recorded by them. On the other hand, strict silence was
not observed during the Ranees, and it appeared that sufficient care
was not taken to avoid the giving of hints by conversation in the
hearing of the Illedium, and by leading questions.
At the third seance I asked that some experiments in thought-
transference and clairvoyance might be tried. Professor Rossi was
unwilling that this should be done. No experiments of that nature
had been tried for some time, and he believed the chance of success
to be very small. Dr. Moroni, however, consented, and two- experi-
ments were tried.
(I) I had previoualy written a name, and enclosed it in an envelope.
This was placed in the medium's hand and she tried to read it-first as"
whole, ·and subsequently letter by letter, but without success.
(2) I wrote down another name, and showed it to Moroni, taking care
that it should not be visible to the medium or to anyone else in the room.
Moroni then tried to suggest the word to the medium; again, without
success.
H. BABINGTON SMITH.
Digitized by Coogle
566 Dr. Albert Moll's" Hypnotism." [Supplement.
II.
DR. ALBERT MOLL'S "HYPNOTISM."*
If it is true that a youth is interesting on ac~unt of his
promise, and a man on account of his achievement, we may,
if allowed to use this figure in speaking of the development of
a science, safely affirm that hypnotism has now entered upon
its manhood. For the investigation of hypnotic phenomena. is
really now in the stage of achievement. It is showing itself to be
of service in the spheres of labour of psychologists and of medical
men, of physiologists and of lawyers. This, however, has not been
the case till quite recently. Only a few years ago, the knowledge
of even the principal facts was confined to a. very small band of
workers, and even they were not able always to unravel and grasp the
true significance of their conflicting experiences. It was not until some
definite starting points were attained by the formation of schools that
a freer outlook became possible. Charcot's coming forward in 1878
with a. rigidly consistent system was a fact of the greatest l,istorical
significance, however differently one may estimate the value of his
doctrines. But from that moment experimental and literary activity
in this subject began to assume such extensive proportions that a
comprehensive view such as had just been with difficulty achieved,
threatened to become again an utter impossibility. It was under
these circumstances that some time ago I saw the desirability of collect-
ing the most important part of the widely-scattered material in the
form of a bibliography ; but I could not shut my eyes to the fact that
the second part of the impending task-I mean the formulating of the
ideas already gained-would be incomparably more difficult.
It is therefore with all the more pleasure that I find myself able to
point out to-day a work which fully meets all requirements as a standard
text-book in the literature of Hypnotism.
Dr. Moll has already won celebrity through several smaller works.
and also through his courageous action in relation to the Berlin
Professors of Medicine. It was known that in the course of a long
practice he had accumulated much valuable experience in our subject.
• Der HypnotiMnuI von Dr. med. Albert Moll in Berlin. 280pp. 8vo., Berlin :
Fischer's Medizinische Buchhandlung (H. Kornfeld). 1889.
Digitized by Ie
Dr. .Albert MOU'8" Hypnotism." 567
But the work before us exhibits not only experience, but also a
remarkable acquaintance with the. literature of the subject, and an
unusual skill in sifting the valuable from the worthless. His method
of presenting the subject is purely descriptive. Herr Moll wisely
refrains from giving any artificial system, which in the present
state of things it would be impossible to render free from objections.
He simply describes the phenomena and the theories, and attempts
no causal explanation.
I will now take up several points, the discussion of which seems to
me likely to be of general interest. A sketch of the contents of the
book lies outside my task.
The historical survey which forms the beginning of this book is
distinguished by the novelty of much, and the trustworthiness of all,
that is said. As a rule these inevitable historical surveys are written
with copying-ink :-the author borrows his information from previous
compilations, and then proceeds to write as if he had most carefully
studied the sources at first hand. But in the case of our book one is
conscious that the author has really read for himself the chief writings
in the original languages, and this enables him to correct many
preval~nt errors. The Society for Psychical Research also is here treated
for the first time with due appreciation; and in the course of the book,
Edmund Gurney's remarkable work especially meets with thorough
recognition. I am only surprised that no mention is made of Beard.
Years before Schneider, the American neurologist advanced the con-
centration-theory; in 1877 he attempted to classify the hypnotic
symptoms into negative and positive, and expressed his opinion that
the artificial trance, as a purely psychical phenomenon, ought to be
studied psychologically-for which task none but psychologists were
properly qualified.
Speaking in his second chapter of the induction of the hypnotic
state, Herr Moll observes, in the first place-possibly moved to do so
by a suggestion made in an earlier notice in this journal-that, in
order to make a distinction between it and the method of inducing
sleep medicinally, it should be called not hypnogenesis (wIIOS-yl"}'JIfIT6cu)
but hypnOBigenesis (v1rJHI)1T&s---yl"}'Jlf1T61U). It is to be hoped that this
expression will come into general use, for it would prevent
many misunderstandings. The author then states emphatically
that much depends on individualising in hypnosigenesis. In
a.greem~nt with the Nancy doctors, he cousiders that in each
individual case those methods should be chosen by which the idea
of the hypnotic condition, and the conviction that it has already
commenced, should be suggested as vividly as possible to the patient..
In this I entirely agree with him. Observation and experiment are
Digitized by Coogle
568 Dr. Albert MoU's "Hypnotism." (Su~
indispe1lll&ble: a knowledge of a man's mental peculiarities is more
important than a knowledge of ana.tomy and physiology.
I now come to a very difficult question, namely, the classification
of hypnotic conditions. Dr. Moll divides them into three grades: In
the first grade, the eyes are closed, and cannot, or can only with great
difficulty, be opened, while the patient is generally subject to feelings of
lassitude. In the second grade, the movements of the body, which at
other times are voluntary, are either partially or entirely taken out
of the patient's own control. In this state, too, the eyes are generally
closed, but sometimes-i.e., in fascination-they are open. In the
third grade the patient is susceptible to illusions, and these are
always accompanied by the symptoms of the second grade.
I must in the first place remark at this point, that, in my opinion,
a description of some typical conditions, arranged in order, would have
been more adapted to the character of the book and to our present
degree of knowledge. Dr. Moll might then perhaps have taken two or
three of the most striking cases, and described them according to their
mutual relations. Within each of these distinctly defined combinations
of symptoms, the intensity of the symptoms would show the high or
deep degree of the condition. But it would be very difficult to bring
all the different kinds of artificial trance, lethargy, catalepsy, somnam-
bulism, fascination, &c., into one category. It is for this reason that
our author's classification is wanting in a thoroughly comprehensive
basis, such as one must demand from the standpoint of logical
method. For both the first grades, the inhibition of voluntary move-
ments, and for the third grade susceptibility to illusions have been
fixed upon as the chief characteristics. The distinction of the first
from the second is one of degree, of the first and second from the
third one of kind. And moreover the shutting of the eyes, which is
characteristic of the first grade, does not occur in fascination, which is
placed in the second grade, an inconsistency which becomes more
striking when it is specified of the third grade that it includes all the
signs of the second grade. The expression "grade of the hypnotic
state" implies that the second grade includes all that the first includes
with some addition, and that the third grade includes all that the first
and second include with some addition. In Dr. lloll's scheme, however,
this does not always appear to be the case. He might have spoken
of three conditions or even, if he preferred, of three phases, but surely
not of three deepening degrees of one and the same condition.
It seems to me, therefore, that in every instance the two first grades
must be considered as one. They have in common a degradation of the
will-power witltin Ute uwtor-spltere, while in the third class the 88flIlO1'1f"
nervous system becomes the theatre of the phenomena. That in most
experiments the beginning of the hypnotic condition is indicated by the
Digitized by Coogle
Dr. Albert MoU's .. Hypnotism." 569
shutting of the eyes, is not due to the nature of the experiment, but
has its source in our modus operafUli. We have had such a firm
conviction that the shutting of the eyes belongs of necessity to the
induction of the hypnotic state, that we have always accustomed
ourselves to work at the beginning on the eyes either by fixation or
suggestion. I do not think that this conviction is really justified.
On the contrary, I should consider it equally the sign of the begin-
ning of a trance, if by somatic or psychical means we could prevent the
subject from shutting his eyes. Let us once free ourselves frQm this
tradition and from the idea of the analogy with sleep, and let us
experiment on a person who is not at all familiar with these things, and
who will therefore be devoid of any tendency to self-suggestion, and let
us try at the beginning to influence some other set of muscles. On
one occasion I began in the following way with a gentleman. I
pressed his right leg firmly with my hand, and at the same time
conceived the corresponding idea of his not being able to lift it up. AB
this experiment was crowned with success, I extended the treatment to
the other leg and to the arms, and did not pass to the influencing of the
movements of the eyelids until the end of the experiment. On another
occasion I had to deal with a postman, whose business it was to stamp
the letters. AB a thorough induction of the hypnotic state did not
take place in spite of repeated attempts, it occurred to me that I might
attack.the man by means of his daily occupation. I asked him·to make
the movements of stamping letters before me, and after two or
three minutes I cried to him in an energetic tone of voice, "Now you
cannot leave oft'doing it." And sure enough the man was incapable of
stopping; and in this way a hiatus occurred in his consciousness, into
which suggestion was able to make its way with such success that
within a short time the complete somnambulistic state supervened. In
short, it seems to me that the shutting of the eyes cannot be considered
as an eumtial sign of the first grade, still less as a specific distinction.
The connection between such conditions as lethargy, catalepsy,
fascination, captation, charm, is the failure in all of them of the
voluntary control of the centrifugal, nerves, and the muscles respectively
innervated by the!U. In another group of hypnotic conditions we may
place the weakening of those sensations which are produced through the
centripetal nerves. Whether this second group may be d6l¥!ribed as "a
deeper hypnotic condition," depends, fir8t, on whether it includes
also without exception the phenomena of the first class, and 8eCQ1I,(]l1l,
on whether the second class is considered to ~ derivable theoretically
from the first. The biological law that we may apply at this point
declares that every evolution advances from the simple to the complex,
and that dissolution takes the opposite course. We are then
perhaps dealing in reality with a natwral deepening of the 8ame condition
. .
Digitized by Coogle
570 Dr. Albert JfoU's "HypnotiBm." (SapplameDt.
and not one produced by the usual methods, and looking at it from this
point of view, we may be able to gain many useful hints.
But we must now follow our author into his symptomatology of
hypnotism, which is as impressive as it is comprehensive. It is here-in
the exposition of the physiology and psychology of hypnotism-that
the extraordinary merits of the book most strikingly appear.
And there are only a few points here in which I cannot concur with
Moll in his opinions. When Herr Moll, e.g., defines IUf/gestiot, as the
infiuencing of a person through the presentation' of an idea, and,
corresponding to this, defines character as the sum total of our own
suggestions, he only obscures the specific meaning of the words. He
may perhaps be historically justified, after the English psychologists of
the 18th and 19th centuries (Brown, cltc.), in describing every con-
version of a mental condition ~to an external act, or indeed every
modification of one idea by another, as suggestion, but such
terminology is, in the first place, antiquated, and secondly, is very
much calculated to cause confusion. And in the same way, when a
subject in the well-known experiment is unable to leave off'
revolving his hands, I should prefer to speak of this, not as automatic
movement, but as continuative movement, because the first of these
expressions is already in use for two other kinds of movements.1
In his symptomatology the purely descriptive method of our author
is shown'in a marked degree. For example, he is content to say that
every kind of disorganisation of the faculty of language can be produced
experimentally by suggestion, that we can take away from a subject
the possibility of pronouncing the letter "a" and indeed deprive him
of the whole idea" a." But it is just in problems of this kind that a
more profound investigation would have been in place. It would have
been very useful to have had the similarity pointed out of hypnotic
phenomena to occurrences in ordinary life, such as in other places has
been shown most skilfully by Herr Moll, and to have had a comparison
made with pathological conditions. I may ,remind the reader of
Trousseau's conclusions, according to which the aphasia of hysterical
patients is always to be referred either to the loss of memory of sound
symbols, or to a failure in the apparatus of articulation. If, with W.
Ogle, we distinguish two kinds of word memory-one by which we
become conscious of the idea, and another by which we become capable
of its expression-we should have to class both of Trousseau's groups
in the second of these divisions, and admit that in the hypnotic state
the idea "a " still remained, though the power of the vocal and graphic
expression of it had disappeared. And this seems to be the only
1 Vide Deaaoir, .. Das Doppel·Ich."-P&rt II. of the Proc«di7lf/' 01 lAc S«id,
lor EzperifMntal PllljChotogU at Berlin, 1889, pp. 2·6, 21
Digitized by Coogle
Suppl_t.l Dr. Alberl MOU'8 .. Hypnotism." 571
possible conclusion from the standpoint of normal psychology. The
patient who writes and says "Momo" instead of " Mama." still
reta.ins the idea "Mama," and merely uses another symbol for
the sound .. a." The &88OCiation of his ideas is not false, only his
memory of their expression. And as he is not at all aware of his mis-
take, he does not struggle against it, as do those in whom the power of
articulation alone is weakened, who can clearly write the vowel," a,"
but who cannot make it pass their lips. The last case is, indeed,
involved in the first, and we see a natural gradation from one to the
other. But it would remain to be discovered whether abstract words
are taken away by suggestion before concrete, and all notional words
more easily than exclamatory sounds, as one would surmise from Max
Miiller's investigations into the psychology of speech. Many other
interesting questions might also arise.
Some observations seem to support the theory just given. I have
often noticed, for example, that when the use of the personal pronouns '
has been taken away from a subject by suggestion, and he has apparently
quite forgotten them, he does not say, "Le~go away, now" (omitting
"me "), but, "Jetzt fortgehen" (German idiom which cannot be literally
translated), or "Charles must go away now." These skilful substitutions
show clearly that it is only the form of the word, and not the idea of the
personal pronouns, of which he is temporarily deprived. When I gave
this particular order to one of my subjects E-stein, the young man got
out of the difficulty by means of the English forms, with which he had
been familiar from childhood. I have accidentally preserved a document
relating to this, which is also in other respects interesting. On the same
occasion when he was in the hypnotic sleep, I gave him the suggestion
that he should dream in the night that he was on board a ship with. a
friend, Ewald W., and that a fearful storm should arise. Terrified at
the vividness of the dream, he was to wake up, and immediately after
waking was to write down what he had dreamt. When the next day
Herr E-stein again paid me a visit, he could tell me nothing of any
such dream. But after a somewhat long search, I found in one of his
, pockets the following letter, which I copy verbatim :-
"Ibabe einen merkwiirdigen Trauni gehabt. I war mitE. W. zusammen
auf der Ueberfahrt nach Amerika. We sprachen ueber das Verschiedenste,
ala sick (l) auf einmal ein grosser Sturm erhob. It wurde ganz finster,
und I sah, wie die Wellen am Schiffe emporschlugen. Ewald wurde sehr
seekrank und musste in die Kajiite geschleppt werden. I folgte ihm hierhin,
und sah wie he schlimmer und schlimmer wurde und schlie. . . " •
... I have bad a remarkable dream. I was on a voyage to America with E. W.
We were talking about various things \Vhen suddenly a great stonn arose. It became
quite dark and I saw the waves dashing over the ship. Ewald grew very sea·sick and
bad to go down to the cabin. I followed him and saw that he grew worse and worse
and .....
Digitized by Coogle
572 Dr. Albert MOU'8 "Hypnotism." (Supplemeat.
Here the account breaks off: but it is interesting not merely as
showing a spontaneous carrying over of a suggestion. But of this on
some other occasion.
Very ingenious are Moll's numerous analogies from waking life with
.post-hypnotic suggestion. The author might perhaps have gone
further and given us examples from the animal kingdom, which as far
as I know has never yet been ·done at all. If I tease a strange dog
to-day who is chained and cannot therefore defend himself, and I meet
the same dog in the street a week afterwards, it ma1 well happen that
he at once flies at me and bites me. We generally speak on such
occasions of the revengeful feelings of the animal, without considering
that such an imputation of human sentiments is not justified without
further proof. The event corresponds intrinsically much more to a
post-hypnotic suggestion: the rage of the animal breaks out at a given
signal, namely, the sight of the person. We need not think that the
animal has carried about with hioi for a week feelings of revenge; it
is enough if we consider his action as an act of memory, as a result of
the a.ssociation of ideas. A special signal raises a special idea.. Exactly·
as in post-hypnotic suggestion.
'l.'he fourth part of the book treats of the theories about hypnotism.
At the beginning the author says: "By explanation we mean tracing
back the unknown to the known. But hardly anything is known of
the real nature of psychical life, and from this arises the difficulty,
nay impossibility, of giving any expla.na.tion of hypnotism, at least at
present." This admission goes somewhat too far. Even if we grant
that we know nothing of the peculiar nature of the soul-life, we may
still give the phenomena of hypnotism a proper position in connection
with psychical processes, without exactly penetrating into the essence
of their being. The successful carrying out of such a work might
quite justly be called an explanation, and in my opinion, Herr Moll
might well have taken the first step in such a direction. A synthesis
of the psychological theories, instead of a mere enumeration of them,
would have shown that they all, in substance, run on the same lines. It
sounds, indeed, very different to speak of condition of heightened
suggestibility, psychical reflex activity, concentrated attention, or
condition of mono-ideism, or of preponderating sub-consciousness, &c..,
b~t at bottom they all prove to be the same thing. A complete proof
of this statement would in this place lead us too far.
The author's reference to physiological theories seems to me very
excellent, he shows their insufficiency in a most striking manner. I
was reminded, whilst reading these pages, of two sayings of famous
men, which I may perhaps quote. Taine says somewhere: "The
geography of the brain is still in its childhood. One perchance
distinguishes a few of the holder outlines, two or three ranges of
Digitized by Coogle
Dr. ~lbert MoU's II Hypnotism." 573
mountains, the course of the watersheds, but the network of streets, of
roads, of stages, the countless flow of peOple which is continually
circulating, struggling and grouping itself in them, all this wonderful,
manifold, fine detail escapes the physiologist." And Lotze remarks
opportunely, with keen irony, that he had for a long time made in
secret the statistical observation that the great positive discoveries of
exact physiology possessed on an average an existence of about four
years each.
One feels that the remarks that Herr Moll makes about simulation
in hypnosis are those of an eminent practitioner. Very just is his
dictum that one should never conclude that the failure of any particular
symptom is a proof of simulation. But the emphasis that he lays, on
the power of dramatic expression in a hypnotised person, seems to me
less to the point. This section, however, might perhaps have gained in
impressiveness by the insertion of individual examples. I can think at
once of one quite classical case, which is reported by Professor Ch.
Richet. "One day B. arrived at my house suffering much from an
obstinate attack of bronchitis. She was coughing incessantly. When
ahe was asleep she left off coughing, in consequence, probably, of the
general awesthesia which affected also the larynx and the bronchial
tubes. As soon as she 'woke up the cough began again, obstinate and
unbearable. On that day I put her into a hypnotic sleep two or three
times, and observed, without having said anything to her on the
subject, the same phenomenon of bronchial anresthesia., which lasted
during the patient's sleep, but ceased immediately on her waking."
Could one think of a better refutation of those ignorant people who are
continually blowing the trumpet of simulation1
I must entirely pass over the chapter relating to forensic matters,
but I will mention two or three points in the medical chapter. Herr
Moll shows very clearly that by means of suggestion the appearance of
the most various diseases may be produced, but that hypnosis is not
therefore to be considered identical with these diseases. The condition
in itself is not pathological, not dangerous to health, it only becomes so
under the unskilful hands of the inexperienced operator, who generally
overlooks the importance of removing suggestions before rousing the
patient. But this remote possibility of danger should not prevent the
physician from making therapeutical use of it, for it may be asserted
of any remedial agent or method ~hatever that it is also capable of
doing harm. It is advisable in practice to let some pre}iminary trials
precede special therapeutical experiments, and always to bear in mind
the psychological bias. " Psychology must be the basis for a rational
treatment of the nerves." It therefore follows that physicians have
not an exclusive interest in hypnotism. "Just as medicine must leave
the investigation of chemical and physical re-agents in part to the
Digitized by Coogle
574 Dr. Albert Moll'8 "HyprwtiBm." [SU~
representatives of other sciences, so we must not only allow psycholo-
gists to make a thorough examination of hypnotism, but it is precisely
they who must attempt it."
The last section of the book deals with animal magnetism, telepathy,
clairvoyance, and similar phenomena. not yet generally recognised. In
spite of the strong objectivity of the author, it seems to me that every
now and then a little a priori reasoning peeps out. Herr Moll would
like to have a stenographer present at telepathic experiments, because
each word may be a source of error. But would he in reality be content
with a shorthand report1 Might he not then maintain thatas the reader
has no means of knowing the f'I'WV611I,I)nU of those who took part in
the experiment, this is still not free from objections1 In Guthrie's experi-
ments, e.g., the author finds no objections to make, but nevertheless "he
has the subjective conviction tliat sources of error were overlooked in
those experiments and that IlUfIgestiun was in some way or other at
work." Against such purely subjective convictions it is difficult to
find cOgent arguments.
In conclusion I must point out that Dr. Moll's book is characterised
by the admirable comprehensiveness of its arrangement and by two
excellent indexes. And, moreover, it is written with a transparent
clearness which has no equal. I do not think that a single sentence
out of the 261 pages leaves the reader in any uncertainty of its meaning.
I took up the work with the highest expectations, and I laid it down
again with sincere satisfaction, and it is my firm conviction that every
one who reads it w.ill feel himself stimulated and benefited. And as
no book exists either in the English or French languages which can be
compared with this comprehensive account, I must express the sincere
wish tha.t before long Dr. Moll's foundation-laying work may find a
translat9r.
MAX DESSoIR.
Digitized by Coogle
