{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sally_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Sally D NDE 7151","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sally D NDE 7151  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sally D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3618 Sally D NDE 7151  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am not exactly sure when the NDE actually began. I suppose when I was 'watching myself' walking to work that this was the beginning. It seemed at this point simply an observational viewpoint, not an experience per se. I would have to say that the entire experience covers a period of several hours during which I was found, rescued, transported by ambulance, processed in the Emergency Room, and taken for a CT scan. Although I was aware of events going on around me, I was not part of them and did not see them. I was not 'involved' although it was my life that was hanging in the balance. During this time, I was clinically not responsive though blood pressure, oxygen levels, and heart rate were very stable. I even remember counting my pulse from the beeps on the monitor while drifting from place to place in my mind and from image to image. There are specific pictures I recall, but the words to explain them defy me. At the time I was not aware of the unusual nature of my wanderings, therefore I did not pay close enough attention to their details to be able to aptly describe. I have full memory of them, but no words to use to explain their qualities, if this makes any sense at all.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 26, 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  Illness  unsure.  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening unsure
    
  Over the past year I have been having severe head pain, difficulty with vision, balance and energy.  All of this, as yet undiagnosed. I have always been an athlete so I do the best I can and try to push through, get to work, stay positive.  On this day, I felt unbelievably weak after being mostly in bed the previous 3 days with severe pain. It was an important day at work, so I got myself ready and headed off, but in route I started to experience the strange sensation of watching myself, as if watching myself in a movie from up above. As my weakness increased, I seemed to move further away.  Yet, I was still walking to work as though completely unaffected, just a normal day.  Suddenly, I had a profound sense of urgency to find a bench and lie down. Shortly after that, I felt overwhelming dizziness, shortness of breath and exhaustion that made it impossible to keep my eyes open. I recall dialing 911. I tried to tell them where I was but gave only part of the information they needed.   It was calm and warm as I drifted up and watched myself lying so peacefully on the bench in the mall.  There was no movement, no fight and finally no pain. As the fire crew arrived, I felt a strong hand on my shoulder, a hand that seemed also to have a warmth that radiated through my entire being and added visions of colors I have never experienced before, even though my eyes were closed. I know the emergency crew and fire crew were treating this as a life-threatening event but my vitals were found to be very stable, so I would say 'no' in hindsight. 

  The strangest thing was that I could hear the fire crew's attempts to rouse me, feel the oxygen mask being placed on my face, and I clearly felt the shaking of their hands when they realized I was not going to wake up or respond.  I was observing all this partly from in my body and partly from outside and above my being looking down. Based on the actions of the fire, Emergency and transport ambulance crew, I suppose it was potentially a life threatening event, a stroke or myocardial infarction.  I was not aware of this at the time. I only knew of profound comfort, warmth and the most amazing colors.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Described above  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   During this event I was not opening my eyes at all, not responding verbally and was not obeying any commands although I could intermittently move all limbs. I was aware of the ambulance crew doing trampoline squeezes to try to wake me and those should have been painful but there was no pain, nor did I attempt to push their hands away. Basically, no responses at all, though breathing, heart rate was very stable.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I seemed to drift in and out so I cannot answer this; I am normally fit, healthy, active and talkative.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time had no meaning, I seemed to drift, complete awareness of being unhurried, timeless, calm and completely relaxed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well, that is a tough one.  Since I had no eye opening for many hours even after this event, I'm not sure why I have such awareness of visual images and beauty.  Although my actual vision would not be applicable, the visions I was having were incredibly vivid. It's very hard to explain.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I seemed to have acute hearing. I knew the answers to most of the questions the staff were asking but could not respond. It was as though I was a curious child simply observing but not truly a 'part' of the scene.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was a tunnel that I was aware of and the light did form a tunnel but it was not a 'tunnel' in the traditional sense. It was more of an arc made by a majestic lights and colors.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   There were amazing lights but I'm not sure of the sources.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Contentment, comfort, complete and delicious absence of pain, glow, relief, humor, and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I did not experience a boundary, but I was forced back to awareness/reality by a neurologist who was most insistent that I 'return and wake up'.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   combination of different beliefs

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The yellow/warm light seemed to be of some higher power.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   But it is undefined and vague now. I felt it strongly at the time.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably existsÂ

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Very powerful messages about love from family and just a general sense of being empowered by love that wrapped around me like a blanket made of light.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. At this point it is still such a recent event that I am trying to make sense of what I heard/saw/remember; ALONG with healing from the sores incurred and the ongoing and still undiagnosed illness that involves relentless pain. I know these events will bring change, but it is too early to know yet, how these changes will unfold.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Many of my relationships have blossomed since, but I also see clearly the ones that are toxic and must be terminated.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words do not explain it all properly.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   The events of hovering and observing seems more vivid and clear than the rest of ths experience although I have to say that the whole 'experience' went on for a period of hours during which I seemed to fade in and out.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have been cautious with whom I shared the experiences with but have received only the most positive, supportive responses. Also, several of the people have let me know that THEY experienced a vision, song or thought, which made them aware I was 'in trouble' while this event was going happening.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have always been interested in it, since I am a nurse. When I went into shock in April 2013 I experienced a tiny glimpse of the peace/contentment I was privy to, during this event, a year later.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     It just seems surreal, but so does my trip to hospital, and having to go back to everyday life afterwards. It's all very strange.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      At the time I was not formulating opinions. I was, for once in my life, 100% 'in the moment': wonderful.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sally_d_nde.html