{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sally_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Sally F NDE 2918","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sally F NDE 2918  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sally F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1016  Sally F NDE  2918  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was in the hospital in labor. I had an epidural that didn't seem to work so the doctor gave me another large injection of the medication. As soon as the injection was given, I felt like I was going to pass out. I told to my husband 'I don't feel right, I don't feel right - call the doctor.' The heart monitor machines that I was hooked up to started alarming and the doctors came running into my room. Within seconds I went from frantic (I tend to be a more anxious person than calm) to sluggish and then sort of removed from the scene. I was there in my body but I didn't seem to feel anxious that I was fading out. The doctors were running around the room and then trying to get epinephrine into my IV to bring up my crashing blood pressure. They were jabbing me with needles and missing. I would say I felt about fifty percent there.

This is when I saw a vision of Jesus and an Angel off to the right above me. It was as though there was a window into the heavenly and I could see what they were doing although I wasn't standing next to them. Jesus had his hands stretched down to the angel and he had his hands stretched down to me directly under Jesus. The interesting thing is that I consider myself a Christian without a denomination and the vision of Jesus and the angel looked exactly like the paintings/window panes you see in a Catholic church. Jesus looked like the Catholic Jesus and the Angel looked like a Catholic Angel - not a cherub but a tall, strong, man looking angel. The colors were amazing. I tell you all this because I thought that if/when I ever saw Jesus he would look plainer. He was very radiant. Also, I can tell you that I instinctively knew what they were doing (my friends laugh at me when I try to explain this). Jesus gave the angel and then the angel gave me the 'whammy to live'. I know it sounds weird but it was like they were throwing down whammy vibes or something. They both looked very serious and intently busy with this project of theirs. I remember thinking 'Hmmm, this is interesting - they are giving me the whammy to live so that I don't die.' It was a very calm encounter even though the physical circumstances were intense. Immediately following this scene, the doctor found my vein and gave me the epinephrine and I came back one hundred percent fully into the scene in the hospital room in my bed. All of this happened in a matter of thirty seconds.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 3/21/2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Childbirth       'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had been given a second epidural and my blood pressure fell sharply. It was a very controlled atmosphere so when the doctor's realized I was 'crashing' they ran in with epinephrine and I bounced right back.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I instinctively knew what Jesus and the Angel were doing to/for me even though no words were spoken.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time. Although I was extremely frightened right before and during the crashing in the hospital room before the incident I was extremely calm when I saw Jesus.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Well the pace in the hospital room was frantic and the pace in heaven seemed slower, like a dream in slow motion.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The scene I saw was vivid with pastel colors and very intense. Real but more vivid color like a painting.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The voices in the hospital room got duller and I could read the intentions of Jesus and the Angel.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw Jesus and an Angel although they weren't communicating with me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     I saw what I can describe as levels of heaven where Jesus and the angel were.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness and relief. I felt detached from worry.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I feel less worried about dying. I know now that I will be okay no matter what. When I get fearful, I remind myself of this experience and it comforts me.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have more respect for the Catholic faith now.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have more respect for the Catholic faith now.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing Jesus looking out for me was very meaningful. To feel like he is on my side or at least in control was great.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've always been interested in NDE's. I've even been on this website before but I've never had something like this happen prior to the experience relayed above.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience is the same whenever I refer to it in memory - real. My baby is almost one year old and it's still fresh in my mind.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know it was real. It wasn't a dream.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sally_f_nde.html