{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sally_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Sally E NDE 5343","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sally E NDE 5343  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sally E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2809 Sally E NDE 5343  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I lost all bodily strength in an instant.  I went to bed, and when I woke up in the early hours of the morning, my chest felt like it was being crushed.  Luckily, I was staying with my sister and brother-in-law and I called to them for help.  Because I could not catch my breath, my calls were not very loud but they were loud enough for their dog to hear me and start barking.  When my sister came into the bedroom, I asked her to call the Emergency Squad because I thought I might be having a heart attack.  When the EMTs got there, they were not sure what was happening but advised me to go to the hospital ASAP.  

They put me in the ambulance, and during the ride to the hospital (about 20 min) while they kept spraying nitro under my tongue to ease the pressure, (it didn't) I had the first NDE.  I was aware of everything going on in the ambulance, but at the same time, I was in a long hallway.  It reminded me of a hotel hallway, because I was aware of doors all along both sides.  At the end of the hallway was one door that had such a bright light behind it, the rays were seeping out on all sides of the door.  I had no body; just a consciousness.  Then there was a great roaring sound (like a jet plane, just before it begins to go down the runway) and I was suddenly traveling at an unbelievable rate of speed towards the door at the end of the hallway.

Although I had the sensation of moving at a great rate of speed, I could not get any closer to the door.  I had a sense of such peace and acceptance that, although I knew what was going on, it was okay no matter what happened.  It was a total surrender.

When we arrived at the hospital, they put an oxygen bag over my nose and mouth, and once I was settled in a bed, I experienced the next NDE.  It was the same hallway, the same door, the same light and the same sensations. This time, however, I began to feel my body lift out of the hospital bed.  Before it could leave completely, however, a doctor came by and the experience ended. 

After a week in the Intensive Care Unit and another week in the general hospital, I was discharged on Thanksgiving Day.  I came away from the experience with a profound sense of peace. I certainly no longer fear death, and I also no longer fear life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 19-20 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Pulmonary Embolism  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   A pulmonary embolism caused the chest-crushing sensation and my inability to get enough air.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was immediate and lasted until the experiences were over.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was highly alert immediately and this lasted until the experiences were over.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light was the brightest light I've ever seen, yet I could look directly at it without blinking.  I did not have a body; it was all mind.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was sharper than normal; especially the ability to hear things coming from two places at one time without confusion.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like a hotel hallway with doors on both sides, and at the end of the hallway there was a main door with light pouring out all around it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It can't be described other than to say it was beyond pure white and looked like it could light the entire world once the door was opened.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The level of consciousness was greater than I thought possible

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace and acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It was a 'knowing' that I didn't need to know anything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes This is what I live by now:  Don't judge people. Try to focus on the important things and let the rest run off my back.  Also try to show others how to do the same.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I could say it was 'peaceful', but it was so much more than what we consider peaceful.  The same is true of all the emotions I felt during the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     It seems that I am now more in tune with things about to happen.  Nothing major, just snippets of things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really.   The whole experience was so beautiful; it would be difficult to pick out any one part of it as 'special.'

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    While I was in the ICU, my sister asked me, 'Did you see the light?'  I told her about my experience at that time, and I have told others over the years when the topic has arisen.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I'd read about NDEs before but it did not affect my experience in any way because I was IN the experience before I knew what it was.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At the time it was happening, I knew what it was.  I was amazed at how unafraid I was during and after the experience.  Actually, even in the beginning, when I thought I might be having a heart attack, there was absolutely no fear.  Just total peace and acceptance

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     think it was the most real experience I've ever had; and I've had some doozies.  I know it was real, because it changed me so much more profoundly and on a deeper level than anything else I've done or experienced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After my experience, I used to volunteer for the local Hospice and felt drawn to vigil work.  Not because I spoke to the patients, (they were usually unconscious) but because death no longer frightened me, and I knew I would not project fear onto the patient.  I was with my father when he died. When he took his last breath, I saw the completion of a circle û because he had aided in my delivery at home and was there when I took my first breath.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't think so.  The experience is so hard to put into the words we generally use, that it really isn't possible to describe the depth of the emotions.  I think you have done a good job trying to collect information but please keep in mind that when I say 'peaceful' and 'accepting' it was so much more than that.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sally_e_nde.html