{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sabrina_e_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Sabrina E Probable NDE 5298","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sabrina E Probable NDE 5298  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sabrina E Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2783 Sabrina E Probable NDE 5298  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a bleed on the brain, died and went to Heaven. There, I saw a lot of lights. The souls of those gone before me were the lights. It was like a room carpeted all over with lights. Way up front, there was God! My daughter stood behind God.  She had passed about three years before. I made my way through the lights, and when I got up to the front, the Lord spoke to me. He said, 'I just wanted you to see that I have her and that she is fine.' 

I started trying to get to her but she wouldn't come to me! I used to spend days at her gravesite. My car would just never pass up the graveyard. On my way home from work, I would sit there and cry, make sure the site was clean. Anyway, God sent me BACK! He told me that she was his child not mine; that she was mine for only a moment.  My grandma was the angel who brought me back. She kept saying, 'Go back baby, you will be fine.' 

Then my husband heard me talking aloud in the back of the house. He thought I was on the phone. When he looked, the phone was next to him. He came to see what I was doing. I was crying in my sleep and he woke me up. He says that I was acting really strange. So he dialed 911. When they got to the house, they asked me some questions, and I answered them, so they said that I was okay. My husband insisted that they take me. When I got to the hospital, it was found out that I was having bleeding on the brain. I was put in a helicopter and sent to another hospital to have brain surgery.

The result of my brain surgery is that I have short-term memory problems. I can't tell you if I ate or if I did anything. It hurts, because I used to be such a tuff Lady! BUT to have seen what I have seen - it was all worth it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Feb. 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    a bleed on the brain  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) a bleed on the brain  I had a bleed on the brain.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   To me, the whole time!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       To me, the whole time!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was all as plain as day.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother, and my daughter.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw LOTS of lights; it was like a bed of stars.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt an amazement, a Wow! A Praise God!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     My boundary was to not touch my daughter, just to see her.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I pray a lot, even more. I pray for forgiveness for all. I never was a churchgoer. I always felt that God is in your heart, not in the building. He is in how we treat one another. I can remember being raised Catholic; we had to go and confess every Saturday. We would go in the little box, the priest would open the little door, and we would say 'Bless me Father, for I have sinned.' I think we should say, 'Forgive me Father, for I have sinned!' Then one time when I was maybe twelve years old, I went to confession. I got on my knees and said, 'Bless me Father, for I Have Not Sinned This Week!' He paid it no mind and said in his repetitive, unconcerned voice, 'Say three Hail Mary's and three Our Fathers and sin no more.' Then he closed the little door!

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I pray a lot, even more. I pray for forgiveness for all. I never was a churchgoer. I always felt that God is in your heart, not in the building. He is in how we treat one another. I can remember being raised Catholic; we had to go and confess every Saturday. We would go in the little box, the priest would open the little door, and we would say 'Bless me Father, for I have sinned.' I think we should say, 'Forgive me Father, for I have sinned!' Then one time when I was maybe twelve years old, I went to confession. I got on my knees and said, 'Bless me Father, for I Have Not Sinned This Week!' He paid it no mind and said in his repetitive, unconcerned voice, 'Say three Hail Mary's and three Our Fathers and sin no more.' Then he closed the little door!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Not sure of the question. But there is a Heaven, and there is a GOD!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Oh YES! Now I am a 'legal nut'. Everyone stays away from me. Because they know I'm going to talk about God.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   No! I tell it to everyone who needs hope!  Or to anyone that has hope!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a stronger PEACE! Peace that this world cannot give to you. So now I don't expect too much from people anymore.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yah! Just to KNOW that there is a GOD and that there is a HEAVEN. Now if someone dies I will not swear. I will only feel joy, in hopes of someday meeting them again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Yah, I think I have told my story to anyone who will listen. Their reaction is, 'That girl is a real NUT!'  It doesn't bother me at all. There is this lady who comes around to get donations for her church, she comes all the time. Every time she comes, she brings a new person with her so I can tell them my story. I tell them whether they believe me or not! I hope at least it gets their attention.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     During the experience, at first I thought that the experience was 'definitely not real.'  But when I tried to get my baby, and she wouldn't come, I knew she was at peace.  When God said that she was his child, not mine, it became real to me.  The fact that it is real has given me so much PEACE! I don't spend my days at the graveyard anymore!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I know that the experience was 'definitely real.'  I had felt like Moses, when God wouldn't let him into the promised land.  I had turned the other cheek all my life. Right before I had this experience, I had taken revenge on someone that I had given my all to!  I feel like God took me to the Promised Land, but wouldn't let me drink of the water.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just appreciate this website. It feels like someone is listening to me. And that there is a God and there is a Heaven.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I have enjoyed it just the way it is. I mean, to go around and tell this story sometimes creeps people out. I spend a lot of time on the computer and by far, this has been the best place I have been in all my computer days. May God keep and protect you guys. Keep the Faith! And remember, like I tell everyone now from experience - THERE IS A GOD AND THERE IS A HEAVEN!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sabrina_e_probable_nde.html