{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1s_jayashree_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"S. Jayashree S. Probable NDE 3952","mylang":"de"}
          	        S. Jayashree S. Probable NDE 3952  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					S. Jayashree S. Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1886 S. Jayashree S. Probable NDE 3952  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There was a white bright light, very chilly weather - I lost my consciousness. My body felt very, very, very light and I had a flying experience. The speed you cannot describe in words, there is no stop for a moment. I traveled in a black tunnel with great speed. I had forgotten everything in this world - even my name, husband, and son, home where I reside and time, day, month, and year - nothing is there in my mind. The speed really threatened a lot and a sudden skip and jerk got me back in this world again. After this experience, I become a different personality with no interest in anything in this world. Even now I remain disinterested in life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 24, 2002
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Other after removal of ovarian cyst…laser surgery..  The speed of travelling was threatening me a lot.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the period the self-level of consciousness and alertness was there. There was also the feeling of threatening and fear - again, because of the speed in travel through the tunnel. I felt like a lifeless ball speeding down from the sky with force. But the motion was towards the sky.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Without the regular eyes there is a super eye in our consciousness - I believe in this. The clarity of the vision is very much more powerful than the regular one.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Initially. Some 'electric voice' similar to a 'robot voice' with the commands of 'open', 'close' - these commands I heard internally.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Initially it was a very bright light then the tunnel was black and cool - and the speed of travelling into the tunnel is incredible.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I pray to the almighty, I felt some power was also travelling along beside me. I don't know who it was.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very, very bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Chill flying, and afraid first and then joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very much, sometimes I can visualize the future in a flash that would come true within no time. I got this power for quiet sometime and it slowly faded.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The boundary I have seen, but I have not reached it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Of course.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Faith

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Of course.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am a different personality through this experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words cannot bring the correct form of this experience anyway.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        After this experience I was not able to speak for some time, only to write the experience to share this to my mom.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my family members.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Something beyond is there in this world and all these days I have spent is ignorance is bliss.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Currently I am okay.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Last year, after listening to me, this homeopathy doctor given me three pills, after taking them I am becoming normal.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was a nice experience. And now I do not have any fear of death.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1s_jayashree_s_probable_nde.html