{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rv_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"RV Possible NDE 9737","mylang":"de"}
          	        RV Possible NDE 9737  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					RV Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE or FDE  						5259 RV Possible NDE 9737  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  This happened when I was about 12 years old. It was a Sunday around noon time. In Argentina, everyone has a big Sunday lunch with their families. So I was totally alone in the Olympic size pool, without a lifeguard and I didn't know how to swim.  I always watched other kids jump in the deep end of the pool and come out fine.  They made it look so eas.  The pool was  6 meters (18ft) deep. Since I was alone, I decided to jump in the pool like all the other kids did.  I jumped in the deep end of the pool, feet first. I don't know how deep I went, and discovered, I didn't know how to get out. I started to run out out of air.  

  Then I saw clear pictures of parts of my life.  The last thing I remember was thinking, 'What are my parents going to say when they find me dead?'
    
    The next thing I remember was me, lying on the edge of the pool where I jumped in.  I was face down but lifted my head and began to cry.  There was still no one around me or in the pool.  After that, I went home and never mentioned anything to anyone since my parents prohibited me from going over there.      

    Several years ago, I told my wife and my kids about my experience.  I have no recollection at all as to how I got out of the pool or how I ended up lying at the edge of the pool.  Lately, I have been trying to remember what happened.  To this day I can still vividly see myself in the pool and what happened while I was drowning.  But I can't remember how I got out of the pool.  For years now, I think about this nearly every day trying to understand what happened.    

Background Information:       

Gender: 	Male    

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1961    

NDE Elements:       

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Drowning       Other healthy boy    

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing    

Did you feel separated from your body?    No      No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was no different than normal    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I jumped in and realized I didn't know how to get out    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No       

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I never saw my life as vividly as when I was under water    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    N/A    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No    

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No         

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No         

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No    

Did you see an unearthly light?       No       

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No         

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, I think I was very calm    

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No    

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No    

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No         

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I only saw saw parts of my life    

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No         

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:       

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic       

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No         

What is your religion now?       No comment   N/A    

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Not that I remember    

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Not that I'm aware of    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No       

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No         

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No         

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No         

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?            I feel that I was very lucky during my whole life, as if I am protected, but I feel that I have not contributed to influence others in a better way    

After the NDE:       

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I try to understand how I got out of the water and how I ended lying at the side of the pool    

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  When I close my eyes, I can see myself in the water.    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No         

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I still try to understand how I got out of the pool    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    50 years    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No       

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never thought about it at the time, until I told my wife and kids    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, but I don't know how I got out of the water    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Still try to understand how I got out and was laying on the side of the pool    

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This is a very lengthy and thorough questionnaire                 			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rv_possible_nde.html