{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ryan_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Ryan K NDE 788","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ryan K NDE 788  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ryan K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						298  Ryan K NDE  788  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The day after a minor surgery, I was recovering well.  I went to use the bathroom and went into arrest while on the toilet.


I don't know how long I was down, but I regained consciousness when I was found, and the nurses were picking me up off the floor. Someone yelled, 'No reps, no bp,' then I was out again. When next I regained consciousness, I was being carried out of the bathroom to my hospital bed, but my point of view wasn't right. I watched five or six nurses carry my big body (three hundred and thirty pounds) out of the bathroom, toss it on the bed, and be joined by four or six other nurses. Some were adjusting the bed so that my feet were up high and my head down low. Someone tore my gown down the front to expose my chest.  Someone was putting sticky pads on my chest; someone was on the phone with the surgeon, while someone else called my wife. The whole time, my point of view was still in the bathroom and stationary. It was my body on the bed, but I was standing in the bathroom doorway, watching them work on me. That's when the wind came.


Sometime during the event, a hurricane force wind had entered the room, and it was the coldest wind I have ever felt. (FYI - I was born and raised in northern Canada. I know cold.) I watched them working, and listened to them yelling (despite the wind?). They were trying to get another IV going but couldn't raise a vein (no blood pressure?). Then one of them stuck an IV needle between two of my fingers. Right then they stopped working, and a young male nurse asked someone, 'What's his name?'  That's when I re-entered my body. I threw my right arm up into the air and yelled, 'My name is Ryan!' The young guy near the door said, 'He's back.'


My wife arrived a few minutes later and they took me back into surgery.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 25, 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death The day after a minor surgery, I went into arrest, and was resuscitated by hospital staff.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Lutheran

What is your religion now?      Moderate   No change

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I don't want to die and go to that place again.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - watching these total strangers work so hard to save me. And seeing that one nurse not give up, when she tried that last time and put that IV needle in between my fingers.  Worst - getting a small taste of what is to come, and knowing that it is unpleasant. I'm so afraid of dying now.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Disbelief.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ryan_k_nde.html