{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ryan_nde.html","mytitle":"Ryan NDE 23005","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ryan NDE 23005  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ryan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3868 Ryan NDE 23005  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I fainted then saw what was the past present and future which were all true and came true. Then I was whisked away to this white room. There were no lights that were making this light. But I felt whieghtless and nothing could hurt me, I was at peace and there was this big white door. It had to be bigger then 20 feet. I think the door opened and even more white light poured in. Then this man came and he was so pure good and u could not look at him to long because it hurt. Then he told me it is not ur time ryan. Then I woke up and started breathing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 15, 2012 (not exact)
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident.  I was holding my breath and did not know I would faint or pass out and go into cardiac arrest

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was in white cloths and they were nothing spiecal but I was dressed in white

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      101% but not of the reality world

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt as if I was gone for like 1-2 when it was only 5 to 10 min

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Booming voice of a man and the people in my past and the people in my future but booming voice was not any one I knew

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     White room white door and white blinding man

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     He said Ryan its not ur time yet

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Pure and safe

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful and calm little scared but not much I just knew I was safe

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was whisked away by some force to see the future past and present

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw like an hour into the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was just who would believe u and how diffent u could say it was

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of being safe there was no bad parts

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    No they didn't really beleivd and one did

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ryan_nde.html