{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1russell_fde.html","mytitle":"Russell FDE 9743","mylang":"de"}
          	        Russell FDE 9743  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Russell FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						5266 Russell FDE 9743  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My friend and I were fixing up a camper van someone had given us. We were priming the engine with gas when there was a backfire through the carborator. The fire quickly made its way to the cup of gas and exploded.
  
  My friend was sitting in the driver's seat while I was in the passenger seat. His window was open and he was on fire, so he jumped out of the window.  I tried to open my door but the window was closed and the door was locked. I could not find the door handle or the lock. I was also on fire. The fire was too strong to jump to the driver's side. My life started to flash before my eyes. All I could think about was my 1 year old daughter and  4 year old son.
  
  Then the door opened by itself while  I looked at in disbelief, while scrambling out of the truck.  In front of me was a tall, large man. He had tan skin, curly black hair and beard. He was wearing a tunic, with a rope for a belt, and leather sandals that had leather straps up his ankles.  He looked at me with his head tilted to the side, like I was not supposed to see him.   When I looked harder, I noticed I could see through his body to the brick wall behind him. 
  
  In that same moment, my friend ran through this man's body. My friend was on fire and trying to roll on the ground to smother the flames.  The problem was that the ground was covered in large rocks instead of dirt. I jumped on top of him and put the fire out with my hands and body.

  We both stood there, looking at each other. I asked if he saw the man, but he did not.  I have told my story hundreds of times at this point and am not sure anyone believed it.  I know there is another side now, and I won't ever forget what happened that day.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2013  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was almost killed in a car fire  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Yes, a lot of adrenaline  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       during the event  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     the same  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    the same  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       fear  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?  No comment 
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.  There was a large man I could see through.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I believe it was Jesus  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes Icould see through his body,  
  
  During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I believe I was saved by a higher being (Jesus) who watches over us all.  
  
Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes.     The person I saw was from another realm called heaven. 
  
Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    RIGHT AFTER, AND MANY TIMES SINCE  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1russell_fde.html