{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3568 5971 1776 2719 9637","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_10_may_1889_supplement.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 Supplement May 10 1889","mylang":"de"}
I
,
•
I
.~
,
.,
,
l
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
I.
THE CANONS OF EVIDENCE IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
AddTeBII giwn by the PRBSlDBNT, PROI'BSSOR SlDGWICK, ae tlte thirty-
~ GMU!II'al Jl66ting 0/ tM Society, held ae tlte We.tmiRltw Town
Hall, on May lOt"" 1889.
I may begin by apologising for the pretentiousness of my announce-
ment, which will, I fear, lead those who read it to expect a more precise
and detailed statement of the rules to be followed in such an investiga-
tion as ours than I am at all prepared to offer.
As will appear, my view is that the investigation is inevitably of
too obscure and tentative a kind to render it possible to treat it by any
very exact method; but there are certain general, though vague, princi-
ples which seem to me reasonable in dealing with the. kind of evidence
that comes before us, and which the very obscurity and tentativeness
of the inquiry renders it desirable to put forward for discussion.
I mean by "the kind of evidence" evidence for marvels; evidence
tending to prove the intruSion-if I may so call it-into the world of
ordinary experience, material or mental, either of causes that find no
place at all in science-i.e., in our systematised knowledge of the world
of experience--or of unknown modes of operation of known causes.
That there is an immense divergence of opinions among thoughtful
persons as to the manner in which this evidence should be dealt with is
shown in other ways than in the criticism passed on our work; it is
shown, e.g., in the controversies that from time to time go on between the
representatives of orthodox theology and the lights of modern science.
But the question of the evidential value of narratives of miracles, as
credentials of a prophet or teacher sent from God, is complicated with
profound philosophical and ethical considerations which do not enter
into the question with which we are concerned. Most thoughtful
writers on Christian evidences in the present age would, I think, agree
that the evidence which the marvellous narratives of the Gospels afford
of the Divine origin of Christianity must be taken in connection with
the direct appeal that Christianity makes to the moral and religious
consciousness of the individual; thus, e.g., if we had similar evidence
tending to show the Divine origin of such a. religion as Mormonism, we
should certainly refuse to regard it as conclusive.
B
Digitized by Google
2 The Oanons of Evidence in Psychical Research. [May 10,
In this religious controversy, therefore, we do not have the question
of the right scientific attitude to take up towards evidence for marvels
as such, presented in a simple form. To find it so presented, we must
tum to our own inquiry. Any member of our Society who has followed
the controversy to which our publications have given rise must have
felt that, as regards what is to most the most interesting subject of
our investigation-the possible action of intelligences other than those
of living human beings in the world of our experience--we occupy a
very peculiar position. It is not only that we are attacked with equal
vigour by Materialists and Spiritualists: but that each of the opposing
parties attributes to us an extreme and irrational bias in favour of the
other extreme. Our materialistic opponents seem to hold that there is
practically no difference worth considering, in respect of credulity and
superstition, between admitting the evidence of Spiritualists to be
deserving of serious and systematic consideration, and accepting their
conclusions; while the Spiritualists seem to think that the manner
in which we treat their evidence shows that we are as obstinately
prejudiced against their conclusions as the most bigoted Materialists
can be.
I do not infer from this that the position which we thus occupy be-
tween the extremes is necessarily a right position: for, granting that
truth generally lies somewhere between extreme views, it is obvious that
the wider the interval between the extremes, the greater the chance that
any particular position taken up in this interval may itself be remote
from the truth. My object is rather to show how vast the intellectual
interval is between the opposing extremes, when our intermediate posi-
tion is thus viewed on either side as almost indistinguishable from the
opposite extreme.
What, then, is the cause of this immense divergence as to the right
manner of dealing with the evidence 1 Is it possible by any reasoning
to diminish it, and to bring the divergent extl-emes to something more
like a mutual understanding 1 These questions naturally force them-
selves on us: and from our intermediate position, subjected as it is to
vehement attacks from both sides, we are, I think, very favourably
situated for considering the question.
It is this question that I wish briefly to deal with this evening.
I wish to show that in such inquiries as ours it is inevitable that there
should be a very wide margin within which neither side can prove, or
ought to try to prove, that the other is wrong: because the important
considerations, the prOB and cons that have to be weighed against
each other, are not capable of being estimated with any exactness.
And therefore there is properly a very wide interval between the point
-as regards weight of evidence--at which it is reasonable to embark
upon an inquiry of this kind, and the point at which it is reasonable
Digitized by Google
1889.] The Canons of Evidence in Psychical Research. 3
to come to a positive decision. Moreover, it would save useless
controversy to keep in mind, that the considerations in favour of accept-
ing the evidence for the marvels as real is necessarily and reasonably
taken at a different value by different persons, according to the different
relations in which they stand to it.
Let me first state briefly why the decisive considerations cannot be
estimated with any exactness. In considering whether the evidence
for a marvellous fact is to be taken as true and adequate we have
necessarily to compare opposing improbabilities: it is improbable that
the marvel should have really happened, and it is improbable that the
testimony to its happening should be false-otherwise the testimony
would not be what we call evidence at all.
Now these opposing improbabilities are quite diverse, and we have
no intellectual scales in which we can weigh them accurately one against
the other. Some of our opponents offer us, by way of such scales,
Bume's summary argument against miracles: "It is contrary to experi-
ence that miracles should be true, and not contrary to experience that
testimony should be false." But in saying that a marvel is contrary to
experience we can mean no more than that it is rtnlike previous
experience-or rather that it is unlike that porti!n of experience which
has been collected, handed down, and systematised by competent
persons. But this only means that it is entirely novel and strange:
and in the course of the life of the human race, during the period in
which it has handed down and communicated experiences, different
portions of mankind have been continually coming across things that
were at first entirely novel and strange, though further acquaintance
has rendered them familiar.
Let us take the strangest of the marvels that we are investigating,
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism: and let us grant-for the
sake of argument-that they are as strange to human experience as
they certainly are to modern science. No one will maintain that it is
impossible that the human race should ever come across anything so
entirely novel in the course of its accumulation of experiences ; they
can only say that it is highly improbable. What is impossible is to
estimate this improbability with anything like exactness: since to make
such an estimate we should require to ascertain the proportion that
what we do know about the universe bears to what we do not know
about it; and that proportion is certainly one of the things that we do
not know.
We are, therefore, in this position-not very satisfactory to the
logical mind, but one that we are bound to face: we must admit that
the statement of a fact novel beyond a certain degree of novelty is in
itself an improbable statement, and that the improbability grows as the
novelty grows: but we must admit tha.t no one can pretend to lay down
n2
4 The Oanom of Evidence in Psychical Research. [Ma.y 10,
at what rate the improbability grows. The improbability of course
vanishes when we come to understand the conditions of the marvel, since
this process of "understanding"-as we call itr-brings it into harmony
with the rest of our experience: but till we have reached this under-
standing the improbability must remain solid but indefinite, and all we
can do is to weigh this improbability-not in any scales furnished by
exact science, but in the rough scales of common-sense--against the
improbability that the testimony should be false. The greater the
marvel, the better must be the testimony; of that common·seIll!e has
no doubt; but it is impossible to say precisely what accumulation of
testimony is required to balance a given magnitude of marvel.
Some of the advocates of Modern Spiritualism am inclined to join
issue with common-sense on this point. They say, If you admit that the
marvel in question is not strictly impossible, and the testimony would
be amply sufficient, in quantity and quality, to' establish any ordinary
fact, would be accepted without hesitation in law courts, and in the
ordinary affairs of life, you ought not to treat it with exceptional sus-
picion because the fact is novel and extraordinary.· Now, doubtless, as
Dr. Butler says, "Probability is the guide of life," and, therefore,
when it is highly improbable that testimony should be false, we treat
this improbability as if it were equivalent practically to negative
certainty in ordinary atrairs. But this only happens when there is no
opposing improbability of equal weight: when in law courts, or in
ordinary life we are met with conflicting improbabilities-as (e.g.) when
two generally trustworthy persons contradict each other-then the
degree of improbability of either being wrong has to be roughly esti-
mated and is estimated for practical purposes. And, similarly, when
tho improbability of a marvel is met by the improbability of testimony
being false, we have to make some kind of estimate of the latter,
and in so doing to take note carefully of different sources of possible
error. I need not dwell on these sources of error, as our Proceedings
have by this time made us all very familiar with the different species.
The chief are (1) alteration of a narrative or tradition, when it is not
obtained at first hand; (2) errors in memory,when the narrative is told
after lapse of time; (3) errors in the actual apprehension of fact, partly
through failure to observe material circumstances, partly through the
mingling of inference with observation. But as regards this last source
of error, it may be worth while to observe that an important part of
our work-in collecting evidence for telepathy-was free from it, and
was thereby in a decidedly advantageous position as compared (e.g.)
with the inquiry into the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. For in
the proof that" Phantasms of the Living" are sometimes" veridical"-
i.e., correspond to deaths or other critical events in the life of the
persons they representr-we are only concerned with observation of a
Digitized by Google
1889.] The Oa'rum8 of E'llide'nCe in Psychical Research. 5
mental fact, as to which the observer cannot be mistaken: in his state-
ment that a distant friend appeared to be in his room, there'can be no
erroneous inference; error only comes in if he infers that the friend
was physically there. The fact of the apparition is undeniable, and
that fact is all we require for our argument. But in dealing with the
evidence for physical phenomena this source of error has to be guarded
against. If a man tells us that he sa.w a table get off the ground with
no one touching it, though the fact that he had this impression is
interesting and noteworthy, it is not complete proof of the levitation
of the table; we have still to inquire whether the impression on his
mind could be produced otherwise than by the physical fact. If there
was anyone else there, it is primd facie possible that he may have
produced an illusion in the narrator's mind; therefore it becomes need-
ful (1) to study the art of producing illusions, and (2) to examine how
far the situation and circumstances of the narrator at the time at which
the impression was produced, gave opportunities for the exercise of this
art. We have also, of course, to consider the possibility of the observer
having been in an abnormal state of nerves or mind, tending to make
self-deception natoral-lUld even perhaps deception of others.
My object now is not to emphasise these sources of error; but
rather to show how in every case the probabilities are only capable of
being vaguely estimated; and how in many cases they must necessarily
be estimated differently by different persons, according to their know-
ledge of the persons concerned. It is for this reason that I feel that a
part of my grounds for believing in telepathy, depending, as it does,
on personal knowledge, cannot be communicated except in a weakened
form to the ordinary reader of the printed statements which represent
the evidence that has convinced me. Indeed, I feel this so strongly
that I have always made it my highest ambition as a psychical researcher
to produce evidence which will drive my opponents to doubt my honesty
or veracity; I think that there are a very small minority of persons
who will not doubt them, and that if I can convince them I have done
all that I can do: as regards the majority even of my own acquaintances
I should claim no more than an admission that they were co~siderably
8\1rprised to find me in the trick.
Perhaps my hearers may be inclined to ask me whether, having
reduced the arguments on both sides to this degree of indefiniteness, I
wish to leave the matter in this hazy condition. No; that is just
what I do not wish to do. But I think it will be a long process
getting it out of this condition, and one that demands patience. What
anyone has to do who is convinced himself of the reality of any alleged
marvel, isfirat to try, if he can, to diminish the improbability of the
marvel by offering an explanation which harmonises it with other parts of
oar experience; and secondly, to increase the improbability on the side
Digitized by Google
6 The Cancms of Evidence in Psychical Research. [May 10,
of the testimony, by accumulating experiences and varying conditions
and witnel!ses.
And may I conclude by saying again what I said last time, that con-
sidering the difficulties in which our investigation is involved, I think it
unreasonable to complain at our slow rate of progress. I feel confident
that if at the end of the next seven years we and our cause have made
as much way as has been made in the seven that have elapsed, the
whole attitude of at least the progressive past of the scientific world,
in relation to the subjects that we are studying, will be fundamentally
changed.
Digitized by Google
