{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ruth_b_probable_fde.html","mytitle":"Ruth B Probable FDE 4974","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ruth B Probable FDE 4974  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					  			        Ruth B Probable FDE  			          			          			          Home  			          Classification Probable FDE  			          2565 Ruth B Probable FDE 4974  		              				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is going to be hard in English (writer is from France).

All passengers were ill, except for me. A crewmember felt sorry for me and wanted to entertain me. So, he asked if he could take me for a tour around the ship. The captain and my parents agreed. We went outside while the ship was rolling back and forth and left to right and I looked ahead across the deck as we stepped out of the door. Suddenly I felt afraid too, but in the same split second, it was as if I zoomed out (out of myself and out into space). First, I saw the immense ocean, then countries alongside, then earth and the galaxy, then the universe, as I was pulled into 'heaven'. As my perspective widened and widened it was accompanied by insights - suddenly I knew how water, climates, the physics worked together, then how people fitted in, how earth was ruled, what was important and what not, then how it all fitted into the universe. I understood 'the system' through and through, how it was meant to be. With my growing insight, a very deep feeling of safety came over me. I was certain to the bone we all should never worry or be afraid - we were very well looked after and cared for, some big force would always prevent us from 'real' harm. All that happened had a true meaning and all we had to do was accept that and go along with 'it'.

Although I was pulled straight up as my horizon widened - I didn't see the things under me - I saw them all around and in a most magnificent light.

As soon as the feeling of great safety came over me, I came back on deck and had a wonderful tour.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    We were in a big storm.  Other 'Emotionally shaken; from Holland we went to live in Australia ''for ever'' in 1966, and now we were on our way back to Holland- only one year later.'  All the passengers were very afraid (and some of the crew) that we would ship wreck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It didn't change.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It didn't change.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My perspective widened (I zoomed out) but I still saw all the details as well. All I saw was covered in a bright, calm light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was silent. There were noises, but they were not disturbing at all - they seemed to be covered by the light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   All I saw was covered in a bright, calm light - even the sounds seemed to be affected by the light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Universes,  but they were not beautiful - they were just "there" as a whole, but at the same time it didn't matter - the important thing was "knowing" that all was part of a bigger system that would always maintain to excist as would we, so that there was no need to ever worry.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very much loved, safe, completely unique but at the same time very much part of a system (as was everything and everybody).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'sorry, as a kid at that time, I probably say ''none'''

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It was of no importance at all to try and 'study' the system or the rules it exists by - it all is very very simple, and deep down we all know what is good and what is bad (for ourselves, health, for nature etc.).

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I can't find the words.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The reaction of those whom I told it to.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Later on I was able to relieve people from pain (with my hands) and sometimes I could sense future illnesses in people - but I let it wear me out and I lost this ability.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told right after it happened, but no one was interested or understood so I never tried again until very recently.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I thought every child, growing up, would have this experience - as a sign of growing up. And because I was only surrounded by grown-ups, they would already have forgotten they had this experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I came to (finally?) accept what happened to me - accept that this, as everything else, is part of this bigger plan I do not understand, but just heartily accept.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ruth_b_probable_fde.html