{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ruth_nde.html","mytitle":"Ruth NDE 2038","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ruth NDE 2038  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ruth NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						491  Ruth NDE  2038  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  My NDE first one was in 1965, diagnosed with terminal cervical cancer. I was in a coma for ten days, and I was out of body seeing how all the nurses and doctors were saying 'we have lost her now.'

I did not recognize the body, as I only weighed sixty-five pounds at the time, and it was ugly to me.

Next, I was wandering the hospital and the next thing I knew, I was in a long tunnel and all my relations who had passed before were standing, smiling as I passed them. I could only discern one motivation and that was to reach the awesome LIGHT at the end of the tunnel. Meantime I was shown all my life experiences, and I WAS the person whom I had hurt or helped so that I felt what they felt when I had erroneously acted against or helped them. A voice told me 'you have been judged in that being the other person I judged myself. Hard to explain, seems easiest for me to call it karma.

When I reached the LIGHT, it was so bright, like nothing on Earth, pure white LIGHT, and such a feeling of unconditional love and warmth. The LIGHT answered any questions I had ever had. It seems like I was there for a long time, just absorbing all the answers.

Next thing I knew a voice came from the LIGHT and told me it was not my time to stay there. I BEGGED as hard as I could, but I was slammed back into my body in reverse, and I cursed all the doctors and nurses. I did not speak of this to anyone as my family was/is fundamentalist Pentecostal.

I had a heart attack in 1993, and the situation was the same but for ONE big difference. I was married at this time and I was shown my husband crying for me not to die, thus I was offered a decision to stay or to return to him. I chose life this time.

In 2000, I lived alone and became very ill with what I know now was e-coli and was not taken to the hospital. I was so ill I was vomiting and could not stand. I screamed to the Universe to let me die or make me well.

I was taken out of body through the tunnel, but this time, I was able to visit other planes of existence. There were seven I was allowed to view, including one very strange plane where I could look inside a giant morass where souls were being tortured sexually, etc. in all types of vile forms. They 'thought' they were trapped when all they had to do was to look up and there was a path to the LIGHT. Not seeking seemed to be their doom. I screamed at them, but it seems they could not hear.

I was taken to special entities who looked like the usual grays, but they had many wrinkles on their faces. They called themselves the Counsel, and said they were part of a group called 'soul recyclers' helping souls to re-incarnate.

This was by far my most profound NDE, as I could see the silver cord that attached me to my body. This experience lasted for over twenty minutes as best I could remember. I was dead; this was NOT an OBE, as I know how those feel.

There is such a profound structure to the Universe that cannot be described. I look upon it as Edgar Cayce did the Akashic records, but in my view, it is a giant gigabyte mainframe that can do trillions of bytes per second. It is like a well-run machine that is totally fair and well ordered. The Universe is the opposite of Chaos.

There is much more I saw on the different planes, but some of it I will not speak of just yet.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1965, 1993, 2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-relatedHeart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew I was me, my personality survived, I just no longer needed a body.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Near the LIGHT.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time no longer existed.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Indescribable amounts of colors that we do not have on Earth, also a type of vibration. I asked what it was, as it was a type of music. I was told these are the prayers, pleas, praise coming from Earth and other planets.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     see NDE  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace and that I was finally at HOME.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        Have not discussed.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I KNOW reincarnation is real and Buddhism fits me best.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Buddhist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I KNOW reincarnation is real and Buddhism fits me best.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All the answers I got from my queries.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My ex was disturbed by any mention of it, I have become a recluse. I am a 'tweener' stuck between Earth and the LIGHT.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words in any language to describe that 'feeling'.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Empathy and healing of others.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The simplicity of how the Universe is run.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with others who have been there. One who has not gone looks at you as if you are possessed if you try to describe it to them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ruth_nde.html