{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1russell_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Russell W NDE 3041","mylang":"de"}
          	        Russell W NDE 3041  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Russell W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1078  Russell W NDE  3041  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I entered Lichfield and was riding my motorbike up the road when a car pulled out and hit me at fifty miles per hour. I was flown to the hospital where I had an emergency operation (I was told all this by the police, helicopter pilot and the medical staff.) All I remember next is waking then going to sleep.

The next thing I remember is propping myself up against the wall in a long dark tunnel (the walls of this tunnel was like the sides of a cave, damp and cold). The next thing I remember is looking at the floor and it was like stone paving (big stones like the old roman roads). I then saw this bright light at the bottom of the tunnel so I started to walk towards it. I remember being in more pain that I have ever been in before, I was falling over and banging into the side of the tunnel. I then was about ten yards away from the bright light (which was warm and felt nice). Around this bright light was an archway.

I then walked into the light and felt no pain at all I felt like it was okay to be there, so peaceful so right. I then heard a voice (I know this voice but to this day I can't work out whose voice it is.) The next thing I remember is looking down on myself with my mom and dad holding my left hand (my mom crying, it really upset me.) I started to move around the intensive care unit ward and I can remember that there were ten beds all with very ill people in and a nurse's station in the center, in front of me. The next thing I remember is floating up towards the roof and that's the last thing that I remember.

When I started to explain to people what I saw, the doctors started saying that what I saw was a reaction from the drugs. I later found out that I was clinically dead for two minutes and when I was in the intensive care unit, I had a pipe down my throat to help me breath. To this day, I know what happened to me and no one can tell me different. We're very lucky to have a second chance but sometimes I feel like I wish I could be in that light forever.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    19/12/03

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I couldn't breath and had clinically died.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I don't know.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I don't know.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Every color seemed brighter, and I could smell fresh baked cookies.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I can't remember sorry.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A long tunnel. The sides of the tunnel were wet and damp like a cave wall, the floor was like the roman roads, a big archway at the bottom.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I heard a voice but I couldn't work out what she said.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was white and as bright as the sun and felt warm inside me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     i went into a the light and saw things but i can't describe these things to you

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Sad, happy, worried, lonely, and safe and my head felt clear (sorry couldn't think of the word for that LOL).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Live everyday as your last day because it can be taken away from you in a flash. Also I'm more spiritual.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     Because I know that when we die we go somewhere so perfect and peaceful, and we meet the people we love who we lost.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Because I know that when we die we go somewhere so perfect and peaceful, and we meet the people we love who we lost.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   To explain what the experience felt like.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I sometimes know what's going to happen in the future.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Everything was meaningful to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I still have flashbacks now, it's like I missed something when I was there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I still have flashbacks now, it's like I missed something when I was there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1russell_w_nde.html