{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ruei_h_ndes.html","mytitle":"Ruei H NDEs 8208","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ruei H NDEs 8208  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ruei H NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  						4307 Ruei H NDEs 8208  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was diagnosed with narcolepsy in 2014. My lethargy during the day became uncontrollable; therefore, the dosage of my medications had been increased to the point that my body couldn't take it any more.  During this time, I also had a car accident caused my shoulder hurt badly. Even with rehabilitation, it was getting worst until one day I felt like dying. After counselling with the doctor who had diagnosed my symptoms previously, he suggested that I see a cardiac doctor and asked him to evaluate my conditions to see if I could take higher dose of stimulants. With the completion of the assessment, the cardiologist said I had no heart problems and it was safe to increase the dosages. I asked him how to treat my prolonged dizziness or temporary absence seizures. He arranged a medical procedure for me.

  A few days later,  I was on the tilting table for my procedure. I felt my heart racing and then it changed to a vibration. Within a couple seconds, I was under cardiac arrest. Medical personnel gave me emergency CPR, however I did not remember it completely. 

  Still, I knew I had a 'dream.' I was under the veranda of a roadhouse building. It looked like the Da Dao Cheng square in Taipei. While I was walking, I met a few anxious men who were smoking and talking amongst themselves, but I could not hear them clearly. Then I walked around to the corner. There was my guide whom I could not tell his appearance, but he seemed to be my deceased maternal grandfather. He was talking to a gatekeeper from the other realm about me. He was impatiently telling me, 'Hurry up! We will be late.' The gatekeeper's face was very distinct. But when I focused to have a close look, he  looked blurry to me. He was holding a spear, wearing a hat, and was tight-lipped. We communicated telepathically about concepts and emotions. 

  In a split second, time appeared to be very fast but again slowed down somehow. It also might have been a long period. Suddenly, I fell into a long dark tunnel that was shaped like  a cylinder. The tunnel kept changing from big, to small, then big again. It was elastic. The darkness had not been seen on Earth. It was very dark, but yet, it was a bright dark. It might have been illuminated from the light afar. I noticed myself as a ball. I had  no body form, but was just a 'dot.' I eagerly wanted to pass this dark tunnel, because I felt bewildered. Intuitively, I knew that once I arrived in the light I would have all the answers. 

  Abruptly, there was a loud voice from a distance, I could not recognize its gender. It seemed like a mixed male and female voice. It was calling me, 'Come back, Hurry back.' At this moment, I had my doubts,  but  replied,  'Back to where?' Right after my question, I was pushed forcefully. I could not tell where was the touch was coming rom because  I was  in a ball form. 

I knew which part of my body was nudged after waking up from resuscitation. It was on my chest.

  I felt my soul being sucked back to my body through the back of my neck. Looking at a beam of bright light, I saw a doctor holding a medical penlight to check  my eyes. Although I was saved, I did not remember where I was, what was my name, or who were my family. Glancing at nurses and doctors, all of a sudden I was in a self-defense mode. I came to realize that I did not know them. A nurse spoke to me: 'We pulled you back finally,' she grabbed my right arm and would not let go. I was confused about time, not remembering the date. I even thought I should be in bed at home. I told the nurse that 'I had a dream.' Still I was not aware of being on the table for the medical procedure. They decided to notify my family and told me what had happened to me. I was diagnosed an onset of asystole  half-way through the examination. The doctor gave me CPR immediately; I regained my memories afterwards. I was diagnosed with a sensitive Vagus nerve reaction. One of the doctors strongly requested me to see a cardiologist for a follow-up. I went home after a 15-minute rest.

  After this experience, I always found conflicts between my mind and body. When I sat by the bed, I did not know where those memories came from. My mind was telling me that things I had known or done before were wrong. Things I thought they were right and good decisions made back then, nonetheless they were all wrong. Yet things or perceptions I thought were wrong or unacceptable, they all were corrected. Up to this point, my morals were totally fallen apart. I was not sure why they all were incorrect for the past 20 years? I could not accept myself like this anymore. Besides, I was not sure how to continue my life. I simply lost track of time. So, I decided to hang myself. I tied a belt on a door knob. Before I proceeded, suddenly I had an idea. It was if I could take the pains from suicide then why shouldn’t I wait until the end?  After all, if I did not wait up to the end, I would never know what could have happened now, regardless whether it might be good or bad. Although my view of ethics had been broken down,  I did not know all the results or answers yet. I decided to live instead of seeking death. Because I still wanted to know what kind of journey that my life would be.

  After my first NDE, I never thought it would happen again in six months. It took place when my heart unexpectedly stopped. I was seen by a cardiologist. Later, he told me my case was rare in Taiwan. He suggested that I stay in the hospital to undergo the Electrophysiology test to find out if  there was a real heart problem. After the pre-procedure test of EKG and the heart ultrasound, the doctor told me everything was normal so I could finish my procedure tomorrow morning then I would be released.

  The next day during the procedure, there was 6 seconds of ventricular fibrillation appeared on screen, then it disappeared immediately during my procedure. The cardiologist asked me if I was feeling all right.  I knew that I was fine. Then, I heard a set of numbers called out. Promptly, I was in the roadhouse building again. I saw the gatekeeper. However, my guide had changed. This time it was  a hunchback old grandmother with a voice that was loud and strong. I did not know her though. She yelled at me saying, 'Follow me!' I replied, 'Yes.' I went back to the reality. I could not see precisely  everything was in front of me. I only saw an oxygen mask on me, but I was not breathing voluntarily. I was panic that without oxygen support, I would immediately die. I focused myself on breathing  in the oxygen. 

  I was surrounded by medical staff. I was not sure what had happened to me and I could not hear what they were saying. While my eyelids could move, my eyes could not. My whole body could not move and my chest was in pain. I could not talk, but my mind could answer doctors’ questions. As time went by, I started to move my right hand to point to my chest, telling them it hurt. I heard my doctor say that the pain was due to the electric shock burns. He then placed ice cubies on my chest. The doctor told my mother that I had  an Acute Cerebral Infarction. To my knowledge, it was temporary. I was sent to the intensive care unit for recovery. I also went through an eight-month rehabilitation therapy after being released from the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2015/05/21

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack.  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   under cardiac arrest followed by an emergency CPR.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain.  I heard someone calling to me  saying. 'Come back! Hurry back!' It was a loud voice but I could not differentiate if it was a male or female voice.  I lost awareness of my body.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   I had a loss of alertness and could not think much or question things.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the roadhouse building, I met a few men who anxiously awaited there. I was forced to leave there, wandering around. I met a deceased relative who spoke to a gatekeeper about me.  The gatekeeper who was  a guard at the border between life and death. Suddenly, I was in a dark tunnel with the bright light. Someone pushed me back to the reality.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     It was chaotic. I felt like I was in that realm for a long time, but then in a split-second I was moving very fast. Later, I found out it only took 10 seconds of earth time after resuscitation.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't see like I do in our daily lives.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I had never heard of the similar voices.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was not aware of myself during CPR. At that time, I (my spirit) was in a dark tunnel floating to the bright white light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   it was too bright to open my eyes, but I could see the light far away and very distinctly.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm. It was   totally different than on earth.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was uneasy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     An indescribable perception. I seemed to know things that will happen in the future. There is no reason to explain why; I just know it automatically.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes.  I went  from being  atheist to sometimes worshipping gods or ancestors by lighting incense sticks in the temples.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths.   Transformation from an atheist to believe in God and many faiths.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I am an atheist, however, my NDE appeared to be in the Buddhist surroundings.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     it had impacted on me greatly. My ethics or values from my entire life was broken apart.  Whereas, I established a new moral concept based on things I thought  were wrong before.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I could not judge if it was a male or female, or a both male and female voice. The voice was loud and echoed.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes.   The ox-headed and horse-faced demons in Hades.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     the oneness of the Universe.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes.     in imperceptibly and inexorably, a mysterious force that connected every moment of everyone.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew the consequences of anything when I saw people or things intuitively. They all came true afterwards.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     everyone is learning something we don't know in this world until we have acquired the lessons. Then there will be no more reincarnations.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes.     There is definitely a life after death, even though I am unable to confirm its origin. All human beings become an 'origin' after death

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     everyone is learning something we don't know in this world until we have acquired them, then there will be no more reincarnations.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     the entire life of human beings suffered many hardships. Therefore, people should cherish their loved ones, and then they could conquer many challenges.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I learned to treasure my family and everything for we live in this world temporarily. Being concerned about loved ones, taking care of others, sympathizing with the vulnerable, and caring about nature and environments. Do not desire people or things that do not belong to us. Finish what you are supposed to do in this life. I am always running out of time. Not having enough time is because I want to do too many things. Willingness to give. Learn to let go our love ones so they would be happy for being themselves.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes my relationship with people is much better than before. Learned to love others and myself as well.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     very accurate to predict things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        During the process of resuscitation, it could influence the deceased behavior before departing from Earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience within a month after it happened. The whole experience was unbelievable. However, after I explained it in detail my family believed I had been through an unexplainable experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real.     Experience was probably really a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real.     Experience was probably difficult to accept.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   the second cardiac arrest.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ruei_h_ndes.html