{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ruthie_a_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ruthie A Probable NDE 2299","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ruthie A Probable NDE 2299  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ruthie A Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						668  Ruthie A Probable NDE  2299  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

It was time to go into the delivery room. I was distraught with pain as they wheeled me in the room. I noticed the light shining on me from above my gurney. It was the doctor's light. I started hearing a buzzing sound, like loud locusts in the summer months. Then I looked at the ceiling and saw the little black dots there. (Typical in a hospital, the little black dots, the size of a pencil eraser, started to join together.

The buzzing sound got louder and louder, as the dots started to form a black void. I felt a whoosh like water and air rushing over my face and body. That's when the dots just pretty much turned into a tunnel. I was in it, heading at an angle that was to my right and slightly upward. It was dark but it had substance, not like just a void anymore but more like a tunnel. It was not snug around my body. I could see gray and dark matter around me. I was heading through the tunnel feet first. Since I was giving birth to my son at that time, I thought to myself, 'Oh this must be what the baby sees.' Then I saw a light, a perfectly round bright light, it was white. I just saw it and thought how perfectly round it was.

Then as if time did not exist at all, I was back on the gurney with doctors rushing around and I didn't know what had happened or what was up? I didn't know if I had had the baby, but I didn't care. I lay there breathing heavy and laughing at everyone rushing around. I knew it DIDN'T MATTER. I knew EVERYTHING WAS FINE. I knew even if my baby was deformed or dead or dying that it was all FINE AND WONDERFUL.

I just lay there with this ALL KNOWING. I knew at that time that everything was all right. Everything was for a reason and I knew this place is just a dream. Earth is just a dream and nothing bad can really happen. I knew we were here to learn from our bad times and our good times. I knew it was LOVE. Love and Caring and to learn and to PASS IT ON TO OTHERS. YET I remember talking to no one. It was just a feeling. A KNOWING feeling. It was probably only a minute or two that I felt so KNOWING. Then I turned 'normal' again and I turned over to see my baby boy.

I didn't care yet about him. I didn't know yet if the baby was a boy or girl because I still knew everything was wonderful no matter what. I could have at that moment, loved a horrible human being. I could have at that moment understood and forgave a person that murdered my child. I could have actually embraced them. Very strange, because I'm not like that now but I do remember that feeling because I knew things. But 'normal' kept taking over me. Soon I asked, 'Is the baby alive? Is the baby okay?' Then, 'Is it a boy or a girl?'

Years went by and I never thought about that much. That feeling I had until I was such a worried mom that I wouldn't let my sons run off and play like all kids should get to. I was too protective. My husband told me to let them be boys, so I knew I had to face my fear of death. I was so afraid they would get hurt or killed that I wouldn't let them be kids. So to face my fears I read about death. I read about NDEs. That's when I found there was a pattern. I had the pattern going on and then I knew that THAT was what had happened to me. I knew I was bleeding too much afterward because I was treated as such.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 23, 1984  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Childbirth       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening trauma of giving birth to my son and blood loss  The doctors never told me I was in danger. I know I was losing blood fast from the way the nurses treated me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I just knew so much, like someone had explained things to me and I knew it to be true. I was so happy and fearless.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was back out of the tunnel and in the hospital on the gurney.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I don't understand where my knowledge came but I had it I just KNEW and it would have taken some time to get me to understand such things but I recall no time I spent in that light.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I first got out of the tunnel and was 'back' everyone seemed 'once removed' as in distant; as in I was watching them in a movie. I thought they were silly for being so worried. I was laughing because they didn't understand it was all 'okay'.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Oh I was in a tunnel, it was not tight, but it had texture  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I just came back knowing things I never knew before but have no memory of seeing anyone or talking to anyone.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Perfectly round and I was going towards it, it was pure white and I felt no choice to go or not to go. I just felt I was along for the ride. Don't remember going 'into' the light. Just remember seeing it. Secretly I feel someone talked to me and showed me things because there is no time over there. And I came back KNOWING but I believe I also had the memory of what happened removed from my mind. Otherwise I think I wouldn't care to live at all.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     as i stated,,i believe that that happened,,but the memory was removed from my mind  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       While in the tunnel I just thought it was normal and I was seeing what the baby was seeing. But when I saw the light then I was back in the hospital on the gurney. I felt like a billion bucks of information I knew we are ALL OKAY and ALL IS MEANT TO BE. No one will truly be hurt I knew this was our 'learning ground' not real, only the love is real.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I just knew everything was okay and meant to be and everything is good.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't go to church anymore I think I have had some bad times there and I know my relationship with God has nothing to do with churches.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't go to church anymore I think I have had some bad times there and I know my relationship with God has nothing to do with churches.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I just knew it all, I knew about love, and I knew how this place is like a dream (earth). I just understood.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I just know even when you lose someone you love it's okay. They are fine. It's us stuck down here in ignorance that is sad.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to explain a given knowledge that you don't understand yourself, but rather could only feel it. How can you explain a feeling if who you're talking to has never had it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The love I felt. The understanding I felt. I knew we are all here for each other. I knew to give love and care to everyone. I knew we are ALL GOD'S children all of us.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband right away about it and my family as well. Then forgot about it until years later when I read books on NDEs and understood that it had happened to me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew the feeling I had was nothing I had ever experienced before in my life, it was something I have not had ever before or after, it was profound and no way to deny the truth of it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I fear I will have some bad times ahead I think GOD knew I needed my soul to learn that it's all 'okay' after all, the son I gave birth to is now twenty and a skydiver instructor. But I have that in the back of my mind all the time. I know death is the beginning of the most beautiful thing out of this world.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think you did great and I thank you for being here. I notice often people are afraid to hear of such things. Seems no one wants to talk about death. Thing is, if you're facing it, this is EXACTLY what we need to hear. And do you know ANYONE that is not facing it? After all, we're BORN TERMINAL. Thank YOU - this is excellent!     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ruthie_a_probable_nde.html