{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rusty_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Rusty S NDE 3190","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rusty S NDE 3190  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rusty S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1222 Rusty S NDE 3190  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in a black space on a black nothing; it was kind of like a path because it was lined with small lights close to ankle height that outlined a 'path'. As I proceeded down this 'path' (not really walking but skipping from light to light), I would look into the small lights and see significant happenings in my life. I saw my birth, a few other things that are vague to me, and then I saw my enlistment into the army, my marriage and the birth of each of my daughters. I was not present at the birth of my first daughter because of military issues, but I saw it starting from a position to the right hand side of my wife about the waist area, elevated approximately seven to eight feet. The feelings that I had while proceeding down this path were ones of accomplishment.

Each light was like a level or stage in my life that I had completed or conquered. Many of the lights were small events that I cannot decipher if I recall them from this memory or from my cognitive memory. I reached the 'end of the path' and in front of me was a large light entrance. It was a light that wasn't really giving off light this is where I have a hard time putting words to my memory to accurately describe what I was seeing or felt. I stepped into the light with no hesitation when I got to it. The same light instantly surrounded me. At this time, I felt nothing physically. Actually now that I am writing this I didn't have any physical feelings during the whole thing, everything was emotional thought related. I wasn't floating or standing or lying I was just 'there' surrounded by this light. At this time, I had an overwhelming feeling of completion, like I had accomplished some great feat or game. I was feeling/thinking, 'You did it. You won. You beat the game.'

Then I remembered my daughter's birth that I saw for the first time just moments ago. I felt the joy, sense of accomplishment and realization of a task unfinished and experiences that were still available to me. I had the feeling that I don't want it to be over I don't want this to be the end I want to experience more. Then it was all gone, the light the path everything. I 'woke up' three days later. I say 'woke up' because I was awake off and on but I was being given medication. And every time I went to sleep and woke up, I would have forgotten everything that had happened to me each time. From the time I was intubated at work shortly after the accident, to the time I was taken off the medication three days later the only thing I was able to remember was the path and light.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June 22 2005

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   AccidentDirect head injury  Severe trauma to my esophagus. large laceration/puncture in my throat  Other I haven't been able to discuss my situation with my emergency doctors or the life flight medical crew as to when my experience happened. The easiest explanation I can give is life threatening trauma. I do not know if I was ever clinically dead..  I was seriously injured, extensive trauma with a large loss of blood.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the light thinking that I had more to do and experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      In the light thinking that I had more to do and experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The scenes from my life weren't like memories, it was as if it was happening for the first time like I was actually present for things that had happened years earlier and miles apart, this was somewhat of a sense of altered time and space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I saw more and from every angle all at once, it is hard to explain.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't really recall a lot of sound. It was more like the only sense I had was sight everything else was muffled.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     But no communication.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The light that surounded me in question #3 was very distinctive.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Excitement, relief, love, joy, anticipation.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   spiritual non-religious

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Everything is important every little thing that you experience is a building block into what makes you. The family you raise and the training/education of your children are your greatest responsibilities.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  My outlook on life and what I hold to be important has changed. My experiences and interactions with other people especially my family has gained importance.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   What I saw and felt after I stepped into the light.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The two most meaningful times were the birth of my daughters and when I made a conscious decision to continue my experiences.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Five days. They were more or less sad at the realization of how close to death I was. My father is set on there being a higher purpose for me. I have had five near misses with death and he thinks that there is some great plan from God that I need to do.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I have heard of walking to the light on TV like probably everyone in the United States.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Even in memories you kind of loose things, this was so different. I have never felt the complete calm I felt then or the lack of fear or pain I almost feel as if I'm always in pain compared to those moments. I don't know how to really explain my certainty. It just seemed more real than life itself.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rusty_s_nde.html