{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rue_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Rue A NDE 311","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rue A NDE 311  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rue A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1372 Rue A NDE 311  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at The University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) to have magnetic resonance imaging done. Before they put me through it they had to give me a shot of iodine. I did have to sign a paper saying that they could not guarantee I would live through it. There is no test ahead of time that they can give and they said a very small amount of people die. I took the shot and almost immediately, there was this horrible surge of pressure. It became so much that I just passed out or something. Next, I felt I was floating upward. I did sense that I was leaving my body and I remember thinking, 'I'm dying -- I can't go -- I have too many things to do.' I was terrified -- I remember thinking I just can't die now. There seemed to be such a struggle and then I just started to float. I just remember floating upward and it was easy, I wasn't fighting anymore. I never got past the ceiling and I never looked down. Then I remember someone saying, 'I am here with you.' I remember saying, 'But I am floating away and I am dying.' She replied, 'We are here with you.' Then I opened my eyes and a brown bag was over my face.  Many people were looking down on me. I first asked if I died. All they would say was, 'We are here to save lives.'

For about seven years, this stayed with me up front in my mind. About two years later, I looked up the nurse and asked her if I had died. All she said was, 'Not completely because you are here.' She said in her seven years that she had not seen a reaction like that. She wouldn't say anything more.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Allergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Adverse reaction to an injection I was given.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Somehow I seemed to know that my body was lying, but yet I felt I was leaving it and I knew this was how one dies.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt I was alert the whole time and I remember thinking that this was the process before one dies.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't know how long, but probably not more than ten or fifteen minutes. I sensed it was short.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I was terrified, not in control and wanting this to stop. I could not believe this was happening, but knowing it was. I was so, so, scared. An unbelievable terrifying experience. Then after the struggle, I seemed to float and I wasn't scared anymore. I was floating out of control.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I realized that I had not finished doing things I wanted to for my children. I realized I wasn't as organized as I wanted things to be and no one could see my place and all my personal things. I now have things ready so that if I die they may go through my things. I've got a will and personal books of myself to pass on when I do die.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know when people say they know they are dying and then floating, I now believe them.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Floating.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Everyone seemed to believe me. I don't think it influenced anyone. On one really asked any questions. They just knew people have gone through experiences like mine.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would have as a question, 'What did you do or want to do with the information/experience you had?' I wanted to tell everyone, but one has to be careful whom they tell. And the doctor and nurses were no help to me. I wish I knew about this website then!!!!    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rue_a_nde.html