{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roy_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Roy S NDE 6367","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roy S NDE 6367  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roy S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3110 Roy S NDE 6367  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience is slightly different from most people. It's unique somehow. What you're about to read starts between lifetimes, with how I came to be created for the second time. 

I'm about to tell you my first encounter with the Afterlife. Those clouds that are in Heaven are not the kind you see on Earth. Those white floating clouds seem to dance. I spent a lot of time staring at them. I remember some person asked me what I was looking at. I replied, ‘Those clouds over there.’ I can't remember what he said about them, but that's when I said to myself, ‘I've been here for 10 days,’ to which a voice replied back, ‘You will be here for another 10,000 years.’ 

There are some fragments I can't remember, so I'll skip to the part where I was in a giant building. It was massive inside, and it seemed to be made from pure gold. I saw hundreds of robed people talking with one another among golden beams of light. There was a lady standing next to two massive doors, on which was written, ‘King of Kings and Lord of Lords.’ Also carved in the stone were the words ‘I am the Alpha and the Omega.’ The lady said to me, ‘God will speak with you now.’ I walked in and I fell to my knees, after which God told me to rise.  I was in the place where you receive your new name, which was given by God, ‘I will call you: (but I can’t remember it)’. It was a strange word: it sounded like it was from a different language. He also told me what it meant, but I can't recall that, either. 

The more I looked at his face, the more it seemed to be concealed by the light. The light was just ordinary light, like the kind that comes in through your window. This is where the fragments of the memory I have seemed to begin. Soon I found myself surrounded by a group of people, and I heard a voice saying, ‘If you want to be born again, now's your chance.’ Also, ‘Once you go, there's no coming back to your previous life.’ I skipped toward the place saying, ‘I want to be born again, that would be fun!’ and then I heard a voice saying, ‘Please don't go!’ (This is not some prank story; it's what I truly believe happened. God gave me a second chance at life.  I know that if I had hesitated, there wouldn't have been that second chance.)  

I do remember some of what happened next: I have some visual memories of my mother's womb, and of my birth, about which I can remember everything: the nurse, the doctor pulling me out, what the doctor said, what the nurse said, what my mom said. Everything about what I remember is exactly the same as how my mother remembers it. It's hard to believe. But being born from Heaven and not from Earth must have given me an enhanced ability to remember my birth, (and my first birthday, as well). I could feel my heartbeat, and the coldness of the room. When babies cry, it's because the doctor pulls you out.  There is a lot of pressure that your head is forced to undergo, and it makes you want to cry. I saw a few pens in his front pocket, and I remember the way my grandmother kept walking in and out of the room. The doctor kept telling her to leave the room, but she kept coming back.  All of this was verified by my mother. I know exactly where I was moved to from the room I was born in, too. It all fits what my mother claims. 

I have many more detailed memories, but I will skip to my second death, which seems slightly different from what most people report that their death experience is. I got into my mother's car, in the back seat. I didn't want to wear a seat belt, but she insisted. She drove up the street and turned right. I suddenly started to cough. First, like the cough of a cold, then it quickly got deeper. My mother turned to me and said, ‘Roy, are you all right?’ I kept coughing, started hiccup-ping and then gasping for air. She kept repeating the same words. ‘Roy, Babe, say something!’ I coughed one last time. 

First, I leaned forward, and then I fell backwards. Like when you stand up too fast, you start to lose your eyesight.  I stopped coughing, but still she kept saying the same thing. I told her I was fine now. I had the urge to hop out of the seat belt, which I did, and the seat belt went through me. I walked to the middle of the seat. The front passenger then turned around to try to wake me up. I didn't respond. I looked and saw a little kid, with his hair spiked up: the dark colors of his hair, his mouth open and his head tilted back. I said, ‘I'll wake him up, Mommy.’ But the passenger and I couldn't wake the boy. She wanted to check my pulse, but she couldn't reach me. She unbuckled her seat belt and was able to feel my wrist. And she said, ‘There's no pulse.’ My mom replied, ‘What do you mean there's no pulse? Are you trying it in the right spot?’ The passenger replied with panic in her voice, ‘I'm sure.’ She checked my throat and my heart, and then my breathing and she could feel no breath. She said ‘I think your son's dead.’ My mom told her not to talk like that. 

I looked at my hands. It looked like you could see through them a little bit, but not a lot. I swiped my hand through the passenger's elbow.’ She jerked her arm away and said, ‘It's really cold back there. That's really strange.’ Then I heard a voice that said, ‘It's time to go.’ I fell through the car floor and onto the street where Sonic was located to the left. At first, I felt worried that I was going to be left there, but then I was shot upwards at high speeds. I could see clouds upon more clouds! Within ten seconds, I was viewing the Earth in all its massive glory! I paused there and just gazed at it for a few seconds. 

Next, I was shot backwards through a tunnel at even higher speeds. I stopped at a giant planet, and went around in orbit with it for a bit. Then I took off in another direction also at a high speed. I found myself going through a large tunnel to which a smaller tunnel was attached. The smaller tunnel was sucking in somebody. There seemed to be a dark hole at the end. I swam towards it. Before I got to it, I heard a voice that said for me to not go there, ‘You don't ever want to go there.’ 

Then I was pulled backwards by something. For a moment, I held hands with somebody who said he had just died of a heart attack and was on his way to see his wife. There was a light above, and a large figure there, and a large white hand waving at us. I soon found myself on a large cloud. There were also smaller clouds moving through the sky. I turned around and saw at a distance a gathering of at least twenty people, some of whom were holding hands. 

I heard a female voice saying, ‘Roy, come here.  Don't be afraid.  You're safe now.’ As I walked towards her, I looked to my right and there was a massive cloud about three football fields away. I watched while a lady who was on that cloud walked about ten steps, dropped to her knees and started to pray. It may have been far away, but I could see everything fine from that distance. She was facing a gate in front of which a figure was standing. Then I heard the voice again, telling me to come to her. I looked down as I walked towards her and I saw a cloud-like mist surrounding my waist, my ankles, and my lower body: it was swirling like the wind. 

She asked me why I was still in my ghostly state. I didn't respond. People usually come out of this state before they enter heaven. Then she looked over to her left, and murmured to herself, ‘I understand now.’ Then she looked back at me and said, ‘Roy, you have to go back to Earth; there's been a mistake. I'm sorry, but you will have to return. You'll be back someday, I promise.’ She might have said I was lucky! So, I walked backwards, and then I felt myself falling. As I fell, I saw someone come to the cloud's edge and wave at me, I waved back. I found myself falling towards earth, I kept on going until I came to our car and fell right through the car roof. I was back in my body and instantly I awoke. 

My mom was saying, ‘Roy, say something!’ I told her, ‘I'm fine.’ I looked to my left and there was Sonic, and a train was passing. Just before I had left, I had seen the railroad stoplight turn red. Now, everything was back the way it was, as if nothing had happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Just a voice that said, ‘It’s time to go.’ I seemed to be traveling by myself. There might have been a little boy, too. I can't describe it, really. Either I saw a mirror image of myself or maybe I saw my ‘ghost-self,’ as if in the third person. I'm not really sure.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I can't remember much, but what I can remember is so clear. It's so perfect without the fogginess of Earth.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Reaching Heaven.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time stopped. I could only float and watch before I was carried back into the tunnel. The stars then became a blur, as if I were traveling at hyper speeds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I believe that the second time I went, there was a fog-like rim around my vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard with my mind, like with your thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It wasn't much bigger than I was. It reminded me of the vortex from ‘Star Trek,’ whenever they would enter ‘hyper-drive.’ I'm sure it had colors.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The tunnel seemed to be lit up.  The space around me was lit up, like the stars. There was a large planet that was bigger than earth.  It seemed to me. I even saw the atmosphere. I didn't need glasses the way I usually do.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Well! Now that I think of it, as I traveled through the tunnel, it kept stopping at planets, and stars: some strange places other than Heaven. It looked like there were buildings. But that was long ago.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None positive, none negative. It was like complete silence, I suppose.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I just saw everything as it was. I didn't use my thoughts to think. I just watched.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     I saw like a little kid does. Responses didn't occur to me. I was just seeing pictures before my eyes.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I was like on a roller coaster, I could only ride it. I didn't have a choice.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   I just believe in God, And read the bible.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My beliefs run off from my past life.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Before I left, I heard a woman's voice, which sounded like it was speaking English. When I entered Heaven, I knew who had spoken to me. She was like an angel or something. She looked too perfect to be a regular person.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No     I been there for atlest 10 earth days, before i was givin the chance to come to earth in a new bodie, and a ramdom life. I ask them to make me famous, but a voice followed through and said, you will recieve what God wants you to recieve. you don't really

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     He lives behind a large door. Written on them were phrases from the bible. He's there i scene him. He spoke to me. He seem to be massive, as those doors. a crown upon his head. and light seem to hide his face.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All I can offer you is that God knows us. As I recall, Heaven has buildings in it, and gates, and books. He lives behind two large doors. Written on them are phrases from the Bible. He's there, I saw him. He spoke to me. He seemed to be as massive as those doors. He had a crown upon his head, and light seemed to hide his face.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     All i can give you is that God knows us. Heaven Has building in it, and gates, and books, if i can recall.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Love people; sell your items to give to the poor. Earthly items are not important, for your Earthly items die and wither into dust.  Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   You see earth memories fades, like the peddals of a flower in fall. But since i'm reborn, it somehow was recorded into my exisance, just like it is in heaven.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     Just a brief knowledge of Heaven. You don't understand its full contents.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was there for at least ten Earth days before I was given the chance to come back to Earth in a new body and a new random life. I asked them to make me famous, but a voice broke into my thought and said, ‘You are going to receive what God wants you to receive. You don't really get to choose.’

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People are lost. I want to save them, but I can't. I grieve for them, as Jesus does. It hurts me to see them lost in the world.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I can't remember the first time; but one was. I guess it was when I was at my funeral. I was in my twenties. Somebody who said, ‘It’s time to go’, encountered me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     You can't ignore it. It's like having a shell on your back that reminds you it's there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     This world isn't the only one; there is also a higher existence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The sky in Heaven is like a mirror image of Earth’s sky: but more colorful. My beliefs followed me from my past life.  You see, Earth memories fade, like the petals of a flower in autumn. Since I'm reborn, it somehow was recorded into my existence, just like it is in Heaven. Tell them I'm coming quickly.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roy_s_nde.html