{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roxana_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Roxana M Probable NDE 22182","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roxana M Probable NDE 22182  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roxana M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						2067 Roxana M Probable NDE 22182  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  Experience Description</p>  					We’d arrived with all of my new friends. It was a Saturday. They continued talking, but I was tired so I fell asleep. At one point, I woke up and I went to the bathroom. I washed my hands with cold water. The weather was abnormally hot. It was really warm. I looked into my eyes like never before in the mirror. I had a strong vertigo and I couldn't see any more. I remember I got out of the bathroom feeling sick and unable to see. When I have arrived into the room, crushed by all the walls surrounding me, I fell down. Slowly, like a feather, and I put my hands down to prevent the fall. Then I just remember that I saw myself from somewhere up above. Then I went, I went with an enormous speed heading to a white shining light on a channel. I remember I could see where I was going. I could see the end of that tunnel, brightly sparkling. When I got there it was extremely white and I remember seeing somebody but I do not know who it was, an old person, I'm sure of that. And we had a long chat. After that, I remember coming back with even greater speed than before, and I could see myself down below waiting for me. Then I opened my eyes and I couldn't speak. I was incredibly happy. I felt extremely pure with an incredible euphoric state. My friends didn't know what happened they we're astonished as I was. 

  The second time, it happened after this experience, I was sitting, relaxing in my bed, just thinking and suddenly I could feel my body moving up. I got scared, I knew I would have another experience and the body came back in a matter of seconds, before it got too far.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12.06.2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    awaken from sleep   healthy  I went to another city with people I didn't know. I felt really insecure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fifty percent conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was heavenly. An extremely white place.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Purity. Euphoria. Bliss.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There was no bad part. The best was staying in that place and talking to that person.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some believed me. Some didn't.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask if people can tell how much time passed during their experience.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roxana_m_probable_nde.html