{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 8294 4978 7215 6712","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_july_1889_supplement.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 Supplement July 1889","mylang":"de"}
8applement.] Int~rnational Oongre88.
SUPPLEMENT.
L
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF EXPERIMENTAL
PSYCHOLOGY.
By A. T. MyERS, M.D.
171
The Congress of Physiological Psychology-whose name, however,
was changed in the course of its debates to that printed above-held its
first meeting in Paris, August 6-10th. Nearly 200 members had
inscribed themselves (the fee being 10 francs), and more than half of
these attended the meetings, although the rival attractions of other
congresses tended to make attendance somewhat irregular. The
principal meetings were held in the new Amphitheatre of the Ecole de
lledecine, and the sub-sections met in the class-rooms adjoining, the
governing body having placed these very convenient quarters at the
disposal of the Congress without payment.
Prof. Charcot, under whose presidency the Congress was convened,
was unfortunately prevented from being present by indisposition,
but Dr. Magnan and Prof. Ribot as Vice-Presidents, Prof. Richet
as General Secretary, and MM. Gley and Marillier as Assistant
Secretaries extended a courteous welcome to the foreigners pre-
sent. Members from Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chili, England, Ger-
many, Holland, Italy, Mexico, Roumania, RUBBia (including Finland
and Poland), Salvador, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
States, took part in the debates, and we believe that members
from other countries were also present. The English Society for
Psychical Research was represented by the President and Mrs.
Hidgwick, Mr. Barkworth, Mr. Kleiber, Dr. Myers, and Mr. F.
W. H. Myers. The American Society of the same name was repre-
sented by Prof. William James, Prof. Jastrow, and Mr. Riley (Dele-
gate of the United States to the Exhibition). M. Marillier, one of
the Secretaries of the Congress, is also Secretary for France to our
Society. Many men well known in Medicine, Psychology, Physiology,
and other branches of Science were present. Among them were
MM. Ballet, Bernheim (Nancy), Binet, Bourru (Rochefort), Carns,
Danilewsky (Kharkoff), Dejerine, Delbreuf (Liege), Drill (Moscow)
Digitized by Google
172 Inte't'1latwnal Oong'l'e88 oj [Sawt-t.
Espinas (Bordeaux), Ferrari, Fontan (Toulon), Forel (Zurich), Galton,
Grote (1rIoscow), Pierre Janet (Havre), Jules Janet, Lapotine
(Moscow), Liegeois (Nancy), Lombroso (Turin), Miinsterberg, Neiglick
(Helsingfors), von Schrenk-Notzing (Munich), Ploix, de Rochas
(Tours), Seglas, Tokarsky (Moscow), and de Varigny.
The proceedings were opened on August 6th by an address from
Prof. Ribot, who worthily filled the chair in Dr. Charcot's absence.
He dwelt with justifiable exultation on the recent abundant and varied
development of psychological studies-in the direction in which he
has himself been a pioneer and a leader-and pointed out how this
development, tending as it does to substitute a partially objective and
physiological for a purely subjective and introspective method, has
caused the need of mutual explanation among psychologists to be more
strongly felt. He concluded by expressing a hope that this Inter-
national Congress of Psychologists would be the first of a series of
similar meetings.
The Secretary-Prof. Ch. Richet--then proceeded to sketch briefly
the task marked out for the Congress. He explained that among the
questions proposed for discussion there were three that especially
demanded" collective" work. Among these he placed first the statis-
tical inquiry into Hallucinations, mentioning the work that had been
already done in this department by the Society for Psychical Research,
and especially by Mr. Gurney, "dont la science deplore la mort prema-
turee." He dwelt on the importance of concentrated effort to establish,
if it be possible to establish, by precise and trustworthy testimony, the
fact of coincidental or "veridical" hallucinations, before proceeding to
frame hypotheses to explain the fact. On this point he thought the
Congress would be unanimous.
After speaking of the question of Heredity, as the second subject
calling for collective effort, he went on to the third, "qui pasaionne
aujourd'hui tous les psychologues," the question of Hypnotism. He
expressed a hope that the rivalry between the schools of the Salp~triere
and of Nancy would soon be a thing of the past; dwelt on the need of
introducing more precision into the terminology of Hypnotism; and
pointed out that the proper business of the Congress was not to solve
questions-which can only be done by the labour of individual experi-
menters-but, by free mutual communication of the results of such
labour, both to obtain a clear view of the questions already solved, and
to Dlark out lines of future study.
The Congress then divided for its morning meetings into four sub-
sections, dealing respectively with Hallucinations, Heredity, Hypnotism,
and the Muscular Sense. A fifth section dealing with "Coloured
Audition," or the mental association between certain sounds and certain
colours, was formed in the course of the proceedings.
Digitized by Google
Sapplement.) Experimental Psychology. 173
The section on the study of Hallucinations met on August 7th, and
discussed the question whether the sanction of the Congress should be
invited for a further prosecution of the Census of Hallucinations, &c.,
as already set on foot by Prof. Sidgwick in. England and France,
and by the American Society for Psychical Research in the United
States; or whether some modification of the scheme was desirable.
Prof. Pierre Janet, Dr. Ballet (the well-known author of Le
Langage Intlrieur), and others urged that the hallucinations of the
insane or hysterical should be studied and recorded along with the
casual or unique hallucinations of sane and healthy persons. It was
agreed that information of this kind also should be collected, but that
the " census-paper" should be adopted practically as it stood, with
one or two verbal modifications. A report to this effect was presented
by M. Marillier to the Congress on the same afternoon, and some
further discussion followed. Prof. Dellxeuf, of Liege, recommended that
special note should be taken as to the mental habit,-" visual, audile,
or motile,"-of the subjects of hallucinations of each of these types,
with which Mr. Galton and' others have made the world of science
familiar.
The resolution to continue the statistical inquiry on"its present lines
was then agreed to without any dissentients.
Prof. Grote, of Moscow, M. Marillier, Prof. James, and Prof.
Sidgwick were afterwards designated by the Committee of Organisa-
tion to superintend the work in their respective countries.
A "questionnaire" for wide circulation was also adopted by the
section on Heredity, which met under the presidency of Mr. Galton,
-who subsequently presented to the Congress a very interesting report
on the chief questions in this department that appear to admit
of experimental solution through co-operative work. On the motion
of Prof. Gruber, of Roumania, the section on Coloured Audition
adopted a similar method for collecting information. The section on
Hypnotism was, as had been expected, the most largely attended. We
give a brief account of some of tha speeches.
THX COMMITTEE ON HYPNOTISM met first on Wednesday morning,
August 7th. PROF. DBLB<EUF (of Liege) was elected chairman for
the day, and PROF. CH. RICHBT introduced the discussion on the
terms that had best be used in hypnotic description. Along with M.
Brissaud he had drawn up definitions of many of the chief words, and
he wished further suggestions and discussion, especially on "Hypno-
tism," "Animal Magnetism," and "Somnambulism." "Hypnotism" was
a word introduced by Braid, and might be defined as an artificially pro-
duced somnambulism (BomnambuliBme p1'01:oque). "Somnambulism"
they proposed to define as a condition analogous to sleep, but differing
from it in retaining more signs of external impressions (persistance de
Digitized by Google
174 InternatWnal Oongre88 of [Sappl_t.
quelques pM~ de la ",-is de relation), and differing also from the
normal waking state by showing an alteration of personality and a
complete loss of memory. It might be natural or artificially induced.
When natural it was a pathological condition, commonest in young
subjects, and coming on; as a rule, during normal sleep. It might be
artificially induced by some ill-defined manipulation which was called
"magnetic," or by suggestion, or by some physical action such as gazing
at a bright body, or more often by some combination of these causes.
" Animal Magnetism" was a term which was not accurately defined in
common use, but which could be used for all the agencies which bring
on somnambulism; for example, the "passes" that were sometimes
called" magnetic." Magnetism used to be considered an exact term in
the 16th and 17th centuries when applied to both plants and animals,
and it very nearly corresponded then to what was now called action at
a distance.
In the discussion that followed on the definition of these terms, MM.
Bernheim, Forel, Espinas, Liegeois, Ch. Richet, and Delbreuf took an
active part, but it was found that an exact emendation of any such
difficult phrases as these definitions could not be reached by as large a
gathering as about 40 members of this Committee. Prof. Bernheim
vigorously expressed his opinion that our knowledge of Animal
lIagnetism and Hypnotism was as yet too imperfect to allow of our fixing
their limits exactly; he was himself inclined to keep the t.erm Animal
Magnetism for historic use as describing the phenomena of a past
generation; to employ Hypnotism as a newer word to cover a large area
as yet imperfectly known, and which it would be premature to define
exactly, but which did not necessarily imply any condition of sleep;
and to restrict Somnambulism to a condition analogous to sleep and pro-
duced by suggestion or hypnotism. Prof. Liegeois wished to give
up the use of "Animal Magnetism" in any accurate discussion, as
being a term based on an old mistake. After some further debate a
decided majority of the Committee voted against the use of
" Hypnotism" and "Animal Magnetism" as synonymous terms.
A short discussion on Automatism led quickly to philosophical
difficulties and was not pressed to a division. The proposed definition
of a subject under Suggestion was that he could not resist the idea
or act suggested. Prof. Bernheim, with whom MM. Liegeois and
Forel substantially agreed, protested against the assumption of a
natural resistance to suggestion which was implied in this definition,
but no exact alteration in the form of words was agreed upon.
Thursday morning, AUf/ust 8th. M. BALLET in the chair.
M. OCHOROWICZ read a paper on "La Sensibilite Hypnotique."
There were some people in the world, he said,who were not hypnotisable;
Digitized by Google
Sapplement.J Experimental Psychology. 175
that was a fact which was admitted by all. It led to the question,
what qualities made a man a good or a bad subject 1 His aptitude
might be shown in various ways, of which there were at least four
which might be clearly distinguished, viz.: (i.) the readiness with
which he could be hypnotised; (ii.) the depth of tlleep which could be
obtained; (iii.) his greater or less sensitiveness to suggestions, and
(iv.) the delicate variations and elaborate character of the symptoms.
This apt.itude seemed to be innate and hereditary. Statistics on
this point were wanted. Was it to be called a disease, a morbid
diathesis, or simply one form sui generia of the nervous tem-
perament 1 Was there any connection between this hypnotic
sensibility and hysteria, amemia, &c. 1 Were any perfectly healthy
people hypnotisable 1 It was generally admitted that by being
frequently hypnotised the subjects became more sensitive, but it
was not determined whether there were other ways by which this
might be brought about, and whether any degree of unsusceptibility
might be overcome by patient and repeated trial. There were further
questions as to the influence of race, sex, and social position on the
susceptibility to hypnotism and the ready diagnosis of good subjects
from external signs. He showed a hypnoscope which he had himself
brought into use. It c~nsisted of a short and broad bar magnet bent
into a circumr form so as to fit one of the fingers. When it had been
worked on one finger for a few minutes it was often found that that
finger was stiff and to some extent anresthetic. In his opinion that
symptom was co-extensive with susceptibility to hypnotism and might
be accepted as a valid test, whether it was due to any magnetic
influence or only to suggestion.
Paoli'. CHARLES RICHET hoped that the important questions
raised would meet with full discussion, and remarked that in his expe-
rience he had found some hysterical subjects not hypnotisable, and
certainly also many hypnotisable who were not hysterical.
Paop. BERNHEIM said he had found nearly ISll persons hypnotisable;
but some hysterical subjects were very difficult to hypnotise and some
who were not hysterical were most easily hypnotised. He had found
hypnotism possible at all ages; it was on the whole more difficult in
the educated classes than the uneducated, as there was more personal
reserve and self-control in them.
Paoli'. CUARLES RICHET considered the French and Italians as
particularly hypnotisable races, though many further observations were
wanted on that and similar points, and agreed with M. Bernheim as to
the greater susceptibility of the uneducated cl&Slles.
Paoli'. D&LBCEUp had found about 75 per cent. of almost all classes
in Belgium hypnotisable; colonels and generals as well as the lower
classes.
Digitized by Google
176 International Oongress of [Supplement.
PROF. H. SIDGWICK said he should like to ask as a 'preliminary
question in this discussion whether we had good grounds for considering
all hypnotisers of equal power 1
PROF. FOREL (of Zurich) remarked that he had not found any
difficulty, after a few weeks' practice, in hypnotising about 85 per
cent. of the Swiss on whom he tried; and he understood that
Wetterstrand in Sweden had found no greater difficulty with 4,000
subjects, and Van Eeden also in Amsterdam. The hypnoscopic test
had not been found satisfactory in some Russian experiments.
PROF. CHARLES RICUET said that Prof. Sidgwick's question stood
much in need of an answer which it was not easy to furnish. The
magnetisers of a previous generation had certainly had a strong
opinion that the hypnotising power was much greater in some indi-
viduals than in others. In his own experience he was inclined to think
he had himself less capacity for hypnotising now than he had had
some 20 years ago. It seemed to him to be not a loss of authority but
of influence. He could give no reason for it, and personal power was
to him a problem of the very greatest complexity. M. Tarchanoff had
very recently exhibited at the Societe de Biologie some very delicate
electrical experiments which went to show that a sensitive galvanometer
revealed an alteration in a man's electric condition according as he
thought of the left hand or the right. If there was a perceptible
electrophysical change produced in this way it was not impossible that
in hypnotism one agent might be perceptibly different from another in
his physical influence. .
MR. F. W. H. MYERS described an experiment which had been
devised by Mr. Gurney and repeatedly tried upon a sensitive subject
(F. Wells) at Brighton to test the difference of his reaction to different
individuals without any opportunity of suggestion by the ordinary paths
of sense. The subject was placed behind a tall screen so as to shut
him off entirely from the experimenters and his hands passed through
the screen and spread out on a table in front of him. No contact or
talk was allowed. Over one finger Mr. Smith, who had often hypno-
tised the subject, held his hand at the distance of an inch or more; the
other observers held their hands over other fingers in an exactly similar
manner. In nearly every case it was found that anresthesia and
rigidity were produced in the finger over which was Mr. Smith's hand
and not in the others. Great care had been taken to eliminate
suggestion, and the nearly uniform result pointed to some specific
personal influence.
PROF. DELB<EUF related a case in which he had found the delicacy
of the sense of touch so greatly increased in a hypnotised subject that
she had been able to distinguish every card in the pack by touch alone.
He attributed the results Mr. Myers had described to a similar
Digitized by Google
E:cpenmental Psychology. 177
hyperacuity of feeling which had enabled the subject to tell one hand
from another at a distance.
MR. MYBBS observed that in the experiments he had mentioned they
had tested the subject's hands in other ways for hypenesthesia, but had
found none.
M. GILBERT BALLET was nevertheless inclined to attribute the
results to an abnormally developed capacity of distinguishing the tem-
peratures of different hands which were not in actual contact.
PROF. BERNHEIM thought that the electrical changes Prof. Richet had
mentioned would be explained by the unconscious muscular contraction
accompanying the thought of one hand or the other.
PRoF. RICBET replied that muscular contraction would not be an
explanation of the electrical change; it was more possible that it might
be due to an influence of attention on the sweat glands.
Friday morning, August 9th. PROF. BERNBBIM in the chair.
After a short paper by M. ALLIOT attempting to connect the vary-
ing conditions of hypnotism with the electrical conditions of the human
body, the discussion was continued by M. OCBOROWICZ, who expressed
his opinion that the phenomena of hypnotism were not all explicable
by suggestion only, for instance, in the case of infants and .animals.
He thought that there was more power in magnets than could be
explained by suggestion. He had himself observed that motions which
did not convey any suggestion had definite effects; for example, trans-
verse passes over the arm of a hypnotised subject diminished its strengtb
whilst longitudinal passes increased it.
PROF. CB. RICBET proposed to classify all the states characterised
by an alteration of personal qualities under three headings. viz. : (1)
spontaneous conditions, normal and pathological, such as sleep, som-
nambulism, &c.; (2) conditions artificially induced, either by suggestion,
which had been shown capable of producing both mental and physical
change, or by physical influences, such as those of magnets or electrical
conditions, which it was at present very difficult to estimate conclu-
sively and to divide accurately from suggestion. In addition to these
there were (3) the further influences of action at a distance,telepathy,and
mental suggestion, the proofs of which were not by any means univer-
sally regJ'rded as satisfactory. Their science was at present embryonic,
and hardly ripe for discussion, though it needed careful attention.
PROF. FORBL thought it very possible tbat the results of M. Ochoro-
wicz's experiments might have been obtained by unconscious suggestion
from the acts, expression, and gestures of the agent. It was difficult
to limit the amount of meaning that might be unconsciously hidden
in these without words. He was not at all wishing to deny tele-
pathy, but he could not admit tha.t M. qchorowicz had proved it.
N
Digitized by Google
178 International 0011fJre88 of (Supplement.
PROP. H. 8IDGWICK hoped that their attention might be recalled
to three conditions where he thought suggestion might be excluded,
viz.: (1) experiments with animals, (2) with babies, and (3) at a
distance.
PROP. BERNHEIM said there were two theories on these points; the
first was that of suggestion, which he maintained himself, and the
second that of the" fluidists " who were there represented by M. Ochoro-
wicz, who maintained some further action on the person than by the
brain of the percipient. That he regarded as possible, but at present
unproved. The passes and staring at a bright object brought in some
points of suggestion of sleep, by quiet and by tiring the eyes. He did
not wish to deny the effects of some similar actions, but he interpreted
them by suggestion. In animals he regarded the s~te produced as one
of catalepsy, and similar to the condition of men occasionally seen in
some very exhausting diseases, such as typhoid fever. With some babies
still at the breast M. Liebeault had considerable influence in stopping
pain and digestive discomfort by laying his hand on their stomachs, or
even, he believed, by bathing them with magnetised water, or, indeed,
any water. How soon children might become susceptible to some sug-
gestion it was hard to say ; it !night be when they were a day'old, very
probably before they were a month.
M. GILBERT BALLET was surprised by the use of the word sugges-
tion for what the experimenter did not expect. If there was always &
psychical process to be called suggestion between the physical agent
which brought on sleep, and the sleep resulting from it, he would ask
what it consisted in when sleep was produced by a sudden loud noise
or bright light.
Paop. BERNHEIM replied that in these cases there was a fresh
awakening of previous suggestions.
PROP. PIERRE JANET cited two cases where sleep was so produced
on a first trial.
PROP. BERNHEIM was inclined, if the subjects had never before
heard any report of this plan, to call the cases catalepsy, and to
doubt the truly hypnotic character of the results.
PROP. CHARLES RICHET had been much interested in the discus-
sion of the limits of suggestion. If the use of the word was confined
to its ordinary meaning he thought that important as its agency might
be in the results of hypnotism it certainly was not the sole cause.
PROP. DANILEWSKY (of Kharkotr) then went on to read his paper on
the study of Hypnotism in Animals. He had obtained hypnotic results
in a long list of animals, going upwards from the shrimp, the crab, the
lobster, the sepia, to several fishes (among them the cod, the brill, the
torpedo-fish), the tadpole, the frog, the lizard, the crocodill', the serpent,
the tortoise, several birds, the guinea pig, and the rRbbit. He had
Digitized by Google
SlIpplemeDt.] Ex-perirM'ntal Psychology. 179
generally found it sufficient to place the animal in some abnormal
position, e.g., on its back, and keep it quiet with slight continuous
pressure. Under these conditions it soon fell into a condition of loss
of voluntary movement, and aJUl!Sthesia of the skin and mucous mem-
branes, so that, for exn.mple, after a time the artificial stoppage of its
means of respiration did not excite any appropriate resistance, and the
appearance at the same time of some spasms and convulsive movements
gave the action the character of an emotional struggle. Repeated
hypnotisation lessened the resistance of the animals, so that they
became more and more susceptible. In some of the animals and birds
if injury was done to the semi-circular canals in the ear so that in-
voluntary circular motion naturally followed, it was found possible to
stop this so long as they were hypnotised. When the animal woke from
hypnotism and changed its position the circular motion began
again. There were two conditions which it was necessary to
distinguish: (1) CataleptJ'!J, which was a condition of arrest of volun-
tary movements and of anaesthesia, and was generally brought
on by strong and painful externa.lstimulus; and (2) lIypnotUm, which
was induced without violent stimulus. The anaesthesia of hypnotism
and the emotions of hypnotism were the result of the inhibitory power
of the brain; and if the brain was taken away these results disappeared
also. External constraint provoked in an animal a feeling of inability to
defend itself and a paralysis of the will followed. That was the first
condition for inducing the phenomena of hypnotism in animals and
men. Animals got their feeling of irresistible coercion from their skin
and their bodily cases; men from psychical causes. Verhal suggestion
to a man was analogous to bodily suggestion to an animal from the
hands of a hypnotiser.
Saturday j{()N/,ing. August 10th. PROP. EsPINAS in the chair.
M. BABINSKI was called upon by the Chairman to explain tIle views
of the school of the Sal~triere upon hypnotism, and began by remark-
ing that these views had been recently put into print 1 and supplied
some answers to the objections raised by the school of Nancy. M.
Charcot had studied hypnotism in hystero-epileptic patients alone,
because he found in them good types for study. He did not deny that
hypnotism might be observed in other patients, and that the pheno-
mena observable in the hystero-epileptics might not be observable in
all others. Suggestion was admitted by the Parisian observers to
be important, but not to be the only source of the hypnotic phenomena.
If a patient who was unacquainted with medical facts and entirely
ignorant of hypnotism showed when hypnotised the contractures which
1 (hand et Petit Hgpnotinle. Archives de Neurologie. 1889, Nos. 49·110.
N 2
Digitized by Google
180 International Congres8 of [Supplement.
belonged to the lethargic state, although the hypnotiser had given him
no hint whatever by word or gesture, it could not be said that sugges-
tion was the cause. Why should the characteristic muscular state be
contracture rather than paralysis, tremor, or any other symptom 7 And
after M.Bernheim had produced hypnotic sleep as he said by suggestion
why did he find BnRlSthesia which he had not suggested 1 Why did
pressure produce contracture in the lethargic state and not in the
cataleptic 1 It had been objected that the three consecutive st.ates
which M. Charcot had described,-the lethargic, the cataleptic, and the
8Omnambulic,-were themselves the result of suggestion. But even if
that wel'e possible it would not explain their occurrence in the first cases
where they were observed. It was said that they had only been found
at the Salp~triere, but some similar observations had been made by
Tamburini, Seppilli, Vizioli, David, and Ladame.. Hypnotism he re-
garded as a pathological and not a physiological state, and in character
allied to hysteria, for (I) they had certain symptoms in common, (2) the
stages of hypnotism were like the stages of the hysterical attack, and
(3) there was an interdependenCE' between hypnotism and hysteria such
as was seen with some other conditions intimately related. The results
of M. Charcot's experiments on hysterical patients which had been
published in 1882 had not lost any of their truth or value.
PROF. LoMBROSO (of Turin) had tried hypnotism on seventy persons
in Bologna. He had produced a truly hypnotic state in only a few
persons, in all of whom there was some morbid nervous condition,
but had noticed what he should prefer to call credulity in many of
the lower classes.
PROF. EsPINAS (of Bordeaux) had observed that whilst suggestion
was used without restriction at Nanoy, nevertheless, at the Sal~triere
it was said to be very rarely tried, for fear of causing an attack of
hysteria. Was that fear well founded 1
PROF. FOREL considered it possible to mske some patients hysterical
by hypnotism, but that was only when very wide limits were allowed
to that vague word "hysteria," and when hypnotism was used for a
long time with the special attempt of producing it. There could be no
doubt that when hypnotism was fairly used on a large number of people
it was found that it was not confined to, or, indeed, much helped by
hysterical temperaments.
M. BABINSKI admitted that he had not had the opportunity of
studying the effects of hypnotism widely on non-hysterical persons.
PROF. PIERRE JANET (of Le HAvre) did not think that to be
hypnotisable was in the least a proof of being hysterical. It was
rather a sign of mental and moral weakness, of an incapacity of fixed
attention; and from such incapacity, which he considered a definite
disease (maladie>: arose the anresthesia which was to be found both
Digitized by Google
Supplemeut.J Expe'rimental Psychology. 181
in hysteria. and hypnotism. In his own trials of hypnotism he had
succeeded in about 80 per cent.
PaOF. FOREL had himself succeeded in about 60 or 70 per cent.
of cases when he began to practise hypnotism, and in a large number of
people who had no such disease as Prof. Janet described, but were per-
fectly healthy. After more practice he had succeeded in as many as
90 per cent., and he came to the conclusion that fatigue was a con-
dition which rendered the subjects more susceptible. With the insane
he had found hypnotism extremely difficult.
:'PROF. CHARLES RICHET protested against the word "disease" which
Prof. Janet ha.d made use of for conditions which, even supposing they
were not the most absolutely normal,would certainly not be included in
what a doctor would understand by disease. And for his own part he
thought some hypnotisable people were absolutely normal.
PROF. DELB<EUF quite agreed with Prof. Richet on this point. To
be hypnotisable depended on attention, not on disease. He had found
himself able to arrest salivation by self-suggestion when under the
hands of a dentist; and one of the necessary conditions in his own
case was the capacity of concentrating his attention, not that in-
capacity of fixed attention that Prof. Janet had spoken of. As to
the Salp~triere phenomena, he observed that after he had himself first
visited the Sal~triere he found that his own subjects manifested
those phenomena. But when he had learnt from the writings of the
Nancy school that these contractures, &c., did not necessarily occur,
they ceased to occur in his own subjects.
M. OCHOROWICZ said his experience during about twenty years for
which he had practised hypnotism had shown him that the insane were
the most difficult of all subjects. The susceptibility to hypnotism he
had found persistent through middle and elder life, a point in which it
differed markedly from hysteria.
SaturdayafternoCYn, August 10th. PROF. DELB<EUF in the chair.
MR. F. W. H. MYERS described some experiments which he and
other members of the Society for Psychical Research had made to
test the possibilities of thought-transference when the recognised
means of communication through the senst',s were cut off. The subject
was a healthy person who was hypnotised and between whom and the
experimenter a screen was in many cases placed. The experimenter
then drew a counter on which was written a number of two figures
from a large collection of these in a bag, and observing very strict
conditions in detail, he fixed his attention on it, asking the subject
to let him know if by any means he became acquainted with it.
The answer was not correct in every case, but the total number of
correct answers in a very long series of experiments was so vastly
Digitized by Goo~
182 International Congre88. [Supplement.
greater than would have been the result of chance, which under these
conditions could be mathematically calculated, that he could not doubt
that there was some other agency at work, which was neither fraud nor
chance but thought-transference.
PROP. CHARLES RICHET knew well the experiments described by Mr.
Myers, and had himself made some others which led to a similar result.
Such experiments, he thought, should be repeated widely and with the
greatest care, for if the proof of thought-transference to which they
led could be established, without a doubt it would be one of the
greatest discoveries of our time.
PROP. SIDGWICK remarked that I'f'.sults of a similar character had
been obtained with subjects in a normal condition as well as in
hypnotism. At the same time the experiments of himself and his
colleagues seemed to show that success was rather more likely to be
obtained in the hypnotic than in the normal state. He entirely agreed
in the view that more experiments were urgently required.
PROP. DELIKEUp had paid some attention to these phenomena, but had
not been able to satisfy himself of any similar results in experiments
of his own. He had been struck with a remarkable power in those
who had been deeply hypnotised of making an exact estimate of time,
and had noticed many post-hypnotic suggestions carried out exactly to
the minute after an interval of several hours.
After some discussion as to the date and place of the next meeting,
it was unanimously agreed that the next reunion of the Congress
should be held in England early in August, 1892.
It is hoped that a. Committee of Reception may be formed in Eng-
land before that da.te; but in the meantime a Committee of Organisa-
tion was appointed, which is to meet about Christmas, 1891, and
consider the subjects to be proposed for discussion at the Congress. It
is hoped that a programme of these subjects may be printed in Eng-
lish, French, and German, some months before the Congress actually
re-assembles.
Digitized by Google
SuppI_t.] Report on the Ce'¥Ul'U8 of Hall'UC'£-nations. 183
n.
AD INTERIM REPORT ON THE CENSUS OF
HALLUCINATIONS,
Up f6 Octeber S4t/I, 1889.
In England the whole number of anawers received is :
I "No.- "y..- TotaIL
From men ............... 1181 112 1293
From women ............ 1382 251 1633
Uuatated .................. 2 - 2
Total .................. 2565 363 2928
Percentage of .. Yeses," 12·'.
Of the persona anawering .. Yea" 64 have as yet sent no particulars.
l13 persona have had more than one experience, either the same
repeated more than once, or clliFerent experiences.
The experiencea recorded may be claaaified as followa :
A.-Exl'BBlBNCBS AnBcTnrG MORE THAN On SENSK.
Non·ColncldentaL
ColDcI.
~~
Represent· Tot.aJs.
dental.
"J;,~
U~.
Visual and Auditory ......... 4 1 7 4 16
Visual and Tactile ............ 1 1 2 3 7
Auditory and Tactile ......... 1 1 - 1 3
Visual, Auditory, andTactile - _. 1 1 2
Total Dumber of Cases... 6 3 10 9 I 28
Digitized by Google
184 .Ad Interim 1Up()ll't em the [Su.ppJemeat.
B.-ExPERIENCES AFI'BCrINO ONE SUd ONLY.
1. Coincidental-
Go Recognised ...
b. Unrecognised
2. Non·ooincidental-
Go Human apparitions:
Go Of living people
fl. Of dead people
'Y' Unreoognised ...
4. Of an ann or hand
b. Non·hnman apparitions:
a. Of animals
fl. Of inanimate objects
L-VISUAL.
Total
E}159 1
4 ~ 184
In 25 J
... 205
24 of these are said to have been collective experiences; viz., 2 coinci-
dental cases (1 recognised and 1 unrecognised) 4 apparitions of the living, 1
of the dead, 16 of unrecognised human beings, and 1 of an inanimate object.
In the above table 30 CaBeS in which the percipient had more than olle
experience, but did not describe them singly, are counted each as one CaBe.
1. Coincidental-
Go Recognised ...
b. Unrecognised
2. Non·coincidental-
1I.-AuDITORY (VOICES).
Go Trivial and often repeated experiences, j{8nerally of the}
name being called, sometimes recognised and some· 43
times not ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
b. Recognised. Of Living Pel'8Ons:
a. Calls or voices
fl. Name called on two occasione
'Y. Short conversation ...
4. Sentences
E. Familiar words and phrases
,. Song ...
c Recognised. Of Dead persona :
Go Calls or voices
fl. Calls twice repeated...
'Y' Sentence
d. Unrecognised:
a. Calls or voices
fl. Calls twice repeated...
'Y' Sentences
4. Counting
E. Crooning a tune
,. Music and faint voices
9)
~ I
1 ~ 15 l
1 I
1 J 93
Total ... 115
6 of these are said to have been collective experiencee ; viz., 2 coincidental
~ of the name being called (the voice being reCOKDised in one case and
not D?- the other), 2 recognised living casee (1 calf and 1 song), 1 trivial
experience and 1 unrecognU!ed case (crooning a tune).
Digitized by Google
8uppJemat.l Oemus of Hallucinations. 185
1. Coincidental-
Go Recognised
b. Unrecognised ...
2. Non-coincidental-
III.-TACTILE
Go Recognised touch of Living peraon:
G. Single touch
fl. Recurring touches
b. Recognised touch of Dead penon:
Go Single touch
fJ. Recurring touches
~. Unrecognised:
Go Frequent touches
fl. Touch, &0., once
Total
D11
!} .1..
,nul
One case of a Bingle unrecognised touch is said to have been collective,
one percipient seeing a form while the other felt a touch.
In this analysis no account is taken ofmorbid conditions which undoubtedly
existed in some cases, being indeed explicitly mentioned occasionally. But
the great majority of the percipients were, according to their own statements,
in a perfectly normal and healthy condition at the time of their experiences.
Also no attempt has been made as yet to make more than a rough estimate
of the possibilities of error in the accounts through defects of memory of
mistakes of inference. In particular, the probability of the figure seen
being a real human being, or the sound heard a real human voice, in some of
the collective cases requires to be carefully examined.
As regards other countriea than England, we heard in August that about
2,000 answers had already been collected in America, and Mons. Marillier
reports in October that he had received 633 answers from France and
Switzerland as follows:
'INo." "y..." TotaL
From men ... 366 ...... 57 ...... 423
From women 161 ...... 49 ...... 210
Total 527 106 633
He had received as yet no particulars from about 50 of the persona
answering yes. Among the remainder, 24 of the experiences are said to
have been veridical.
The enquiry has also been commenced in Germany, but not yet in Russia
nor in Italy.
I may remind my readers that a report on the census is to be made to the
International Congress of Experimental Psychology in 1892, and that we
should like by that time to have 50,000 anawers. Further assistance in
collecting is urgently needed, and I shall be glad to correspond with any
one willing to help in the work.
HENRY SIDGWIClI:.
Digitized by Google
186 Prof68801' Pierre Janet's [Sappl81DeDL
III.
PROFESSOR PIERRE JANET'S "AUTOMATISME
PSYCHOLOGIQUE."l
By FREDERIO W. H. MYERS.
The name of Profe880r Pierre Janet haa long been familiar to the readers
of these Prouedill{/" We have been amongst the first and warmest
appreciators of the remarkable articles in the .&uue PhilolOphique in which
he has for several years past recounted the results of a series of experiments
on human automatism, &c., seldom surpassed for care in observation and
acumen in interpretation. We shall, therefore, be prepared to join cordially
in the welcome which French savanh are now extending to M. Janet's
the. fWMntle ala FaculUde l/lttre, aPam under the title of L'Automatiame
p",choI.ogique, "an eBBaY ip. experimental psychology upon the inferior forma
of human activity." This book contains the gist of the above-mentioned
articles, and much more besides j and we consider that it at once placea
M. Janet in a front rank of experimental psychologists. It ought, we
think, to be translated into English and other languages, and studied by all
who are interested in researches of this kind.
But when a book is so full of new observations and reflections aa this
book is,--6nd observations'in so difficult a domain,-it is not by mere general
expressions of praise that we shall show it the truest respect. Its greatest
merit is that it opens new paths j and in a new path we may walk side by
side like explorers rather than follow in a leader's steps like sheep. Much
of the book is occupied with criticism,-reasonable and effective criticism,-
on views which have been set forth in these Pt-oceedingll; and much of our
limited space must be given to an answer to those criticisms,--8uch answer
aa we make to an opponent whom we desire not to confute but to persuade.
The work begins in a manner unusual in psychological treatises, but, in
our view, strictly logical. "Total automatism" is the title of the first part,
and "Isolated psychological phenomena" of the first chapter. What is
implied in these titles is the new, the experimental method of getting at the
simplest beginnings of human consciousneBB and intelligence. No merely
imaginary or metaphorical simplicity, such aa Condillac's "breathing statue,"
can be a really simple notion, or afford a true basis on which to upbuild our
conceptions of gradually developing personality.
Dr. Hughlings-Jackson (with whose works, little known in Framce,
M. Janet does not seem to be acquainted) has taken ClJma aa representing a
"lowest level of evolution," and haa traced the operation of nerve-centres
at different levels aa they come into prominence at succeBBive stages of the
dillllOlutive proceBB of an epileptio explosion. What we want to produce
and watch, however, is of course not the catastrophe, .but the evolution
of the psychical cosmos j-not the breaking down of one set of reservoirs
1 L'..f.utomatiIfM P,yc/wlogiqut, par Pierre Janet. (Paris: Alca.n, 1!l89, pp. 496).
Digitized by Google
SappJement.J "..4utoonatisme Psychologique." 187
of nerve-force after another, but the gradual calling into operation of higher
and higher connections. And M. Janet is right, I think, in taking the
condition of hypnotic catalep'!/ as the lowest starting-point which can be
safely reproduced in practice. Judging both from external indications and
from that memory of cataleptic attitudes which 80metimes persists into a
80mnambulic state, the cataleptic subject is in that condition of impersonal
COnaciOUID888 which we must suppose to exist in the animal and in the
infant, and which is occasionally experienced and even remembered by the
adult, on his recovery from aweathetiaation by drugs, or from a profound
fainting-tit. Profeaaor Herzen's description of this latter experience deserves
quoting here, for it giv~ us probablyI' more vivid notion of "total automa-
tism " than any mere observation from outside could afford.
"During the faint," he says, "it is ab80lute psychical nonentity, com-
plete absence of consciousn888 ; then one begins to have a vague, unlimited,
infinite feeling,--a feeling of-existence in general without any delimitation of
one's own individuality, without the least trace of a distinction between the
I and the not-I ; one is then an organic portion of nature, having conscious-
n888 of the fact of one's existence, but no consciousn888 of tho fact of one's
organic unity ; one has, in two words, an impersonal conacioulDe88:-
sensations which, from the mere fact that they remain isolated cannot be
Jrnown, but only felt."
By hypnotic catalepsy is here meant a state in which there is no initistive
of movement, but in which an attitude or a movement can be impreued from
without upon the subject,-who will inevitably retain the attitude, or repeat
and complete the movement. Imagining this state from within, and from a
paychologicalstandpoint,--a task which M. Janet has faced more boldly than
any predec888or,-we reach the following conclusions (p. 66): "Many
sensations and images are accompanied by a bodily movement and cannot
exist without producing it; every sensation or image persists in the con-
aciOU8D888 until another phenomenon occurs to efface it ; every sensation or
emotion tends to develop and complete itself, and to manifest itself by
appropriate acts."
In the cataleptic subject we witne88 the play of these isolated sensations
and images,not yet collected and correlated under the conception ofa central
personality.
Here, then, we have a starting-point; what are the next stages on the
upward road 1 From the cataleptic state (it would be usually said) we rise
to the somnambulic, and from the 80mnambulic to the waking condition.
But note that our conception of the 80mnambulic state,-what used to be
called .. the mesmeric trance,"-is gradually undergoing development, as
more prolonged experimentsare made. When this state was only maintained
(as by the earliest mesmerisers) for a few minutes or hours, attention was
naturally directed to its first orsuperficial aspects,-the habitual anresthesia,-
the rappurt with the mesmeriser only,-the readine88 to receive suggestions,-
and, of course, the alternation of memory, and forgetfulne88 on waking.
Further experience has shown that the phenomena of an_thesia and of
rapporl are by no means uniform, and that suggelltibilit-!I is by no means
confined to the 80mnambulic state, but often exists in waking subjects. We
are,in fact, obliged to admit that there is no one phenomenon which invariably
Digitized by Google
188 Profe88(Yt· Pie1'r6 Janet'8 (SapplemeDt.
characterises the somnambulic state ; and that all we can say is that the
subject is not quite the same as jn the waking state, and that there is
generally a more or less complete forgetfulness in the waking state of what
has passed in the "trance."
There is, I think, a wider conclusion to be drawn from these facts than M.
Janet has attempted. But before indicating that conclusion I must note the
extremely ingenious observation which our author has made as regards one at
least of the conditions accompanying and determining these somnambulic
changes of personality. M. Janet's experiments were made on ?/l persons,
all of them hysterical, epileptic, or insane; and although this limitation of
his experience to diseased subjects has, as we shall presently see, in some
ways much cramped his conceptions, it has also had the advantage of
concentrating his attention upon certain marked and extreme phenomena,
which previous observers had usually witnelllled only in a fleeting or accidental
way. He noticed, then, in one of his subjects· that there had been various
lacunre in her memory before she had ever been hypnotised, and that he
could not summon back the recollection of these periods even in her
somnambulic state. But this was a subject who passed through many forms
of somnambulism; and in a new phase which she one day entered she
spontaneously gave an account of what had happened in those blank periods.
M.•Janet naturally tried to discover whether this new somnambulism
pOBSessed any specisl characteristic linking it with those previously un-
remembered periods in Roae's past. He found that,-whereas in ordinary
life and in all previous somnambulisms she was wholly anresthetic,-yet both
in this new somnambulism and in those blank periods of life she was only
hemi-aDalBthetic,-having recovered tactile and muscular sensibility on the
right side. Other observations followed,-Bome of them of a very delicate
and ingenious kind,-and M. Janet came to the conclusion (p. 109) "that the
alternating memory of somnambules is due to a periodical modification,
whether spontaneous or induced, in the state of their sensibility, and,
consequently, in the nature of the images which serve as the basis for
complex psychological phenomena, and especially for language. This
modification finds place particularly in subjects more or leBS aDalBthetic in
their normal state, and then consists in the temporary restoration of a certain
category of images of which the subjects in their ordinary state have lost
poBBeBBion. " Thus-adopting the distinctions with which Mr. Galton
has made us familisr,-Uonie is a flisu.al in her waking state, an audile in
her second state (Uontine, now termed Uonie II.), and a motile in her
third state (Uonore, now termed Uonie III.). Each set of images forms a
chain of memory of its own, and the transition from the predominant use
of one set of images to the predominant use of another necessarily involves
a certain change of personality.
Those remarks appear to me to suggest an important field of observation.
They do not, indeed, cover tho whole ground; for there are abundant cases
of alternating memory where the subject presents no apprecisble change in
mental habits of the kind here insisted on. And I may add that M. Janet's
observations,-in which states of hemi-anresthesia play no small part,-seom
to me to add confirnlation to my own view (Proceedi1C1J8, Vol. III., pp. 43 and
99) that alterations in the predominance of one or other cerebral hemisphere
Digitized by Google
"..4.utomati.sm.e P8ychologique." 189
have something to do with these changes of personality, of which automatic
writing is now recognised aa one of the most instructive manifestations. I
can scarcely understand why M. Janet disapproves of this view (p. 415),
which seems to me entirely consistent with his own, and which waa in fact
baaed in part upon the very same observations. M. Janet refers to Louis
Vive. with his changes of character coinciding with the shifting or disappear-
ance of hysterical paralyaea. I also referred to that case ; and surely when
hemi-anreathesia and hemiplegia are amongst the most marked of the
phenomena with which we are dealing, there is nothing fanciful in aaauming
that there are coincidental changes in the equilibrium of the cerebral hemi-
spheres. The suggestion-which lowe to Dr. Ireland-that Spiegelschrift
msy represent the word-vwon of the right hemisphere, still seems to me
ingenious and probable; and although M. Janet has never witneBl'ed
SpiegelBchrift among what he calls "un _ grand oombre de 8",jets," I must
venture to say that his score or so of writing subjects (for not all hiB 'J!l
subjects wrote) is not for present purposea a sufficient number; and that I,
who have seen more writing subjects than M. Janet has-(though I am far
from asserting that I have observed them with care or skill to equal his)-
have witnessed this Spiegelscbrift in a good many independent cases.
Unfortunately I cannot say in how many; for while the inquiry waa a mere
curiosity of my own, I regarded the incident aa too common to need record ;
and now that the matter haa become one of controversial interest, I am
afraid of suggesting my own view to any automatiBt with whom I am
concerned.
On one point M. Janet (who is very careful and accurate in his citations
from our Proceediugs and other English sources) seems to base an objection
on a misconception (p. 415) of the phenomenon which I am describing. I
draw a parallel between the su1ferer from verbal cecity and the writing
automatist who does not know what he haa written, and who writes therefore
without the aid of the "word-picturing centres" of his left hemisphere.
M. Janet supposes that my automatist is partially anmsthetic-" le medium
n'apal Za Betllllltion des moU11ements." But he is not in any degree anmsthetic
in the cases to which I am alluding: he has the full sensation of the
movements, and he can sometimes guess by the movements what word he is
writing, although he haa no mental vwon of that word in his conscious
intelligence. My parallel is therefore a closer one than M. Janet has
supposed.
I should have some other rejoinders to make to the criticisms on
pp. 415-9. But the discussion may well be left until there are a good many
more observatious to analyse. Automatic writing occurs, it is evident, under
more forms than any single observer has yet noted; and the urgent matter is
to get experiments carefully made and recorded in milieux aa different from
each other aa can be contrived. Let us not lose the true independence of
each experiment by falling prematurely under the power oj suggestion of any
one theorv.1
1 It is to me a real disappointment, and I think that it is a real drawback to the
attainment of a complete view of the 8ubject, that there 8hould apparently be almost
no producible experiments now made by those who believe that these automatic writings
sometimes emanate from disembodied (or unembodied) minds. That there should be
Digitized by Google
190 Pl'ofe88or Pierre Janet'8 [Supplement.
I now return to a statement of M. Janet's, already cited; from which, as
I have 8&id, it seems to me that conclusions much wider than his own may
fairly be drawn. He 8&ya,-and I fully concur,-that there is no specific
character which belongs to the "somnambulic state" in itself. .. The
somnambulic state." he remarks, p. 125, "has only relative characters; and
can be determined only in reference to another period of the subject's
existence,-tlle normal or waking state.•.. Somnambulism is a second
existence which has no other character except that it is the second. "
Tllken by themselves, and detached from their modifying context, these
very words might be used to expreBB what I believe to be a profound truth,-
which a great part of M. Janet's book is employed in combating.
I believe, in short, that we have no right to go a whit beyond actnal
observed facts in any judgment which we may p&BB as to the relative
luperiorityor "normality" of any of man's different statel. I refuse to call
my actual waking state "normal" or "natural" in any sense except that of
habitnal or ordinary. It has been shown that in a very large number of
persons,-many of whom (8S Mr. Wingfield's Cambridge subjects!) are excel-
lent examples of health and vigour,-certain changes of memory, sensibility,
character, occur or can be induced, which in cases where they are carried
furthest amount to a profound-even a permanent-even a 8&lutary-
modification of personality. Taking, then, myself M my example (lest I
offend my reader by supposing him capable of being changed for the better),
I cannot suppose that I am made on a different pattern from these men
simply because the empirical modes of inducing these changes, M thus far
discovered, happen to have no effect on me. I conclude that I simply do not
know of what modifications the stream of consciouBDeBB of which my organism
is the basis is potentially susceptible. I know this no more than I know of
what modifications the human germ is s~eptible. Since the era of my
protozoic ancestors the germ which is now human has shown absolutely
unpredictable potentialities. Whatever be the part which we a.ssign to
external infiuences in its evolution. the fact remains that the germ pOBBeBBed
the power of responding in an indefinite number of ways to an indefinite
number of stimuli. It was only the accident of its exposure to certain
stimuli and not to others which hM made it what it now is. And having
Ihown itself so far modifiable M to acquire these highly specialised senses
which I posseBB, it is doubtleBB still modifiable in directions a8 unthinkable to
me as my eyesight would have been unthinkable to the oyster. Nor can we
limit the rate of change, which, so far as cerebral modifications are con-
cerned, may probably be increMingly rapid as it has an increasingly complex
material to work on. All I can 8&y is that I am a momentary link in a
chain of organisms perpetually changing in accordance with an unknown path
of evolution; and my present conscious condition represents no norm what-
ever, but only the historical fact that my ancestors' actual mode of develop-
ment was sufficiently suited to their environment to keep them alive.
so many Spiritualistic journals in the world, and yl't so few attempts either to prove
or to illustrate this central article of faith, ia to me a never·ceasing wonder. I can only
reiterate my own anxious desire to receive records of experiments from observers at
every point of view.
1 See Appendices to this review.
Supp1emeut.J "AUtomatiBnUl Psychologique." 191
It follows that so long as we are dealing with mankind from a rough
practical point of view,-as, for instance, in therapeutics.-we may without
serious error treat the ordinary state of health and intelligence as a type to
'W"hich aberrant Ipecimens ought to be recalled. But if we wish to engage,
as M. Janet engages, in a more original, more philosophical discUl8ion of
man's personality, we have no longer the right to aBlume that our common
empiricalltandard gives any true measurement of the potentialities of man.
From among a good many passages of M. Janet's which seem to me thus
lacking in width of purview, I take one (p. 137) where, amid much which
I hold to be true and important (see ProcudinglJ, Vol. IV., p. 225), one
phrase occurs which placea our point of difference in a clear light.
" The memories which persist in a man's mind are grouped and aggregated
round some one leading form of sensation [i.e., as visual or auditory images,
&C.], which serves both to exprell them and to evoke them j and when they
are sufficiently numerous they form a Iystem of which all the parts cohere and
belong to the same memory. A man perfectly healthy from the psychological
point of view would never polleu more than one memory of this kind,and since
all the phenomena of his thought would be attached to images always the
same and alwaYI preaent to him, he would be able easily to evoke them all,
and at any moment. But no one is thus perfect j a thousand circumstances,-
paBBion, Ileep, drunkenness, illn888, diminish or destroy certain images,
revive others, and change the whole orientation of his thought. Secondary
groupe of memories are then formed, in accordance with the same laws,
around certain images which are abnormal in his mind j [e.g., auditory images
in a ' visual,' &c.] ; these new images may vanish and reappear no more; but
if they reproduce themselvel periodically or are brought back by artifice,
they bring with them all the memoriel which are linked' with them, and the
different memories become alternating memories."
The main ft't,th in this passage (in my vie'W") lies in the description of the
growth of subsidiary mnemonic chains, which may ultimately enter into
rivalry with the primary mnemonic chain in the waking individual. 'l'he
main originality lies in the association of each new mnemonic chain with a
difl"erent let of revivable lense-images-Bo that a "visual" formed pro tem.
into an audile (to ule Galton's terms) enters by that very fact into a fresh
phase of personality. This ingenioul hypothesis M. Janet bas shown to be
probable in lome instances i-though I think that he pre8881 it too far. But
the main error which the passage (as I think) containl, lies in the conception
of the psychologically healthy or normal man who has one let of memoriel
only,-say visual; sticks to that set, and is able to reproduce at will all the
memories which have been grouped around his stock of visual images.-
memoriel (un1888 I much mistake M. Janet) of objects wittingly (sciemment)
observed by our normal man's primary consciousneu.
Now I say that such a man's memories may of course be practically
adequate, but are certainly not theoretically complete. I hold that every
impreuion made on the organism (above some minimum which we cannot
gu888 at)-be it visual,auditory,or tactile. is in a certain sense remembered by
some stratum of that organism, and is potentially capable of being reproduced
in 'the primary memory. If called upon to defend this thesis at length, I
should find various experiments of M. Janet's own to add to the converging
Digitized by Google
192 Professor Pier)'e Janet's [Supplement.
mass of observatioll8 which this view, and this view alone, serves to explain
and to unite.
For the moment I must confine myself to a single concrete illustration.
In the paperon crystal-gazing which appeared in Proceeding' XIV., the author
gave the following carefully observed incident. She saw in the crystal,-as an
externalised hallucill8tion which M. Janet would doubtless claasas morbid,-
a printed announcement, as though from the Times newspaper, of the death
of a friend, as to whose health she was in no way preoccupied. On searching
the Times of the previous day that. announcement was found. But Mias X.
had never coll8Ciously read it ;-never read it, in the usual sell8e, at all. She
had simply held that sheet of the Times to shade her face from the fire while
talking to Mrs. Sidgwick, with whom she was staying at the time. That is to
say the words of the announcement had imprinted themselves on her retina,
but their meaning had never reached her mind, in the usual sell8e of the
term,-that is, her primary consciousne88. But when she looked in the
crystal,-uaed, that is to say, an empirical method for facilitating communica-
tion between the subjacent and the superficial conaciousne88,-then that
subjacent conaciousness was able to convey, in hallucill8tory form, this true
message to her primary self. Now I say that in so far as anyone pouesaea a
power of this sort, and can acquire cognisance, either by artifice or by some
spontaneous uprush, of the impressions stored, and the operatioll8 proceeding,
in strata deeper than his primary conaciousness, to that extent is he superior
and not inferior to ordill8ry humanity, more" normal" than the average
man-if any norni there be-because he is more fully utilising the possibili-
ties of his being.
In Mias X.'s crystal-gazingthe infonuation gained is often trivial, and the
upward-6.owing messages interesting mainly in their theoretical aspect. But
there are phenomena of a more exciting kind which must receive just the same
explanation. The differentia (as I venture to hold) of gellius ;- not of the
genius which is a mere extraordinary capacity for taking paill8, but of the
sheer unmistakable creative genius(say for iIl8tance) of a Mozart,-lies in this
very same thing ;-in the capacity for drawing upwards into the primary
coll8Ciousness the results of operatioll8 which have taken place, (with no
effort to the primary self, and often beyond its cOll8Cious capacity,) in the
subjacent strata of his complex intelligence. And if after this the man of
genius should suffer from nervoUl! exhaustion, (which is by no meall8 always
the case,) I consider that he has accomplished the greater object at the coat of
the lesser, and is no more morbid than a champion sculler is morbid because
on the day after a hard-won race he has a pain in his back. This mention of
the case of genill.' is by no means here a digression. For the doctrine that Ie
genie est tme ,iobrose,-that there is something morbid and disequilibrated in
any extraordinary creative power,-is maintained now-a-daysl with arguments
closely resembling those which M. Janet directs against the soundne88 of
automatists orof hypnotisable persons. Genius, automatism, hypnotisability ;
these three in a sell8e must stand or fall together, as representing unworked
potentialities of the human spirit; accidental or empirical modes of bringing
" the good treasures of the heart " into serviceability to the cOll8Cious self.
1 See Lomb1'OllO" L'Homme Ik Gh&it.
Digitized by Google
Supplement.] ".A utomatisnte Psychologique." 193
For, indeed, the capacity of being hypnotised-to return thus to the
immediate arguments of our author-is surely lI<1t, as he would have us
believe, an indication of something in the subject already morbid, or on the
point of becoming so. Actual experiment (as we have seen in Mr. Wingfield's
cases) disproves this view as completely as my theory could desire. I offer
in exchange the following suggestion: Hypnotisability indicates neither
health nor disease ; but merely a facility of communication or alternation
between different strata of the personality. The facility of such interchange
(like other capacities of strong organic reaction to given stimuli) may be
harmful or helpful according to the circumstances of each case. It is probable
that those who are morbidly unstable to begin with will be hypnotisable also.
And thus it is found on the whole (though with considerable divergence
between observers) that hysterical subjects are specially hypnotisable. But
this fact constitutes no presumption whatever that all hypnotisable subjects
will be morbid. As well might one say that because drunken men fall very
sound asleep, therefore everyone who falls asleep must be mure or leBS
drunk.
We have dwelt long on this important theoretical point; for this too
hasty generalisation of M. Janet's from his own experiences with morbid
subjects to the morbidity of aU subjects lies at the root of almost all in his
book to which our English experience would lead us to demur. I pass
more briefly over his account of 8Itggestion,-the artificial retrenchment of
the field of consciouBness,-which he classes 1\8 one of the phenomena of
total automatism. In reading M. Janet's resume of the power of suggestion,
with his apologies for again treating so well-worn a theme, we, in these
Procudillgs, may be allowed a paBSing reflection on the extraordinary rapidity
with which the phenomena of hypnotic suggestion have taken their place
among the common-places of experimental psychology. Hypnotic suggestion,
though known to the early mesmeruers, (now beginning at last to receive
due honour), in England as well as in France, had, in this generation, fallen
almost wholly out of the scientific purview, and was looked upon as a
trick of itinerant charlatans. In these Proceedings, however, from their
very inception, we have dwelt on the reality and the power of this
singular agency. I suppose that other English organs must be beginning to
deal with the subject now; but during the seven years' life of these
Proceedings I cannot remember that we have gathered a single illustrative
instance from any English periodical, or even any criticism, except the oft-
repeated remark that the subjects of suggestion are probably either paid, or
duping the operator.
Well-worn though the subject may now be, M. Janet has, as usual, some
ingenious contributions to make to it. One of the most striking of these is
an experiment--or rather a pair of experiments-which show the con-
vertibility of what I have elsewhere called active and paBSive automatisms,
-of suggested actim~ and suggested haUttcination,-in a quite novel way.
"There are no acts," says M. Janet (p. 148), "without an image in the
mind, which, although aBSociated with a movement, is not on that account
the leBS intense. A subject ordered to lift her arm has in her mind an image
of the act-an image muscular or visual as the case may be,-which is quite
clear and exactly like a hallucination. For instance, I bid Marie lift her
o
1941 Professor Pierre Janef8 [Supplement..
ann, but I straightway seize the arm and arrest the movement. Since she
has no muacular sensibility on this Bide she does not feel my action. A few
moments later I ask her where her arm is, and she answers that it is in the
air, ·and that she _ it..• We have thus suppressed the action which
under ordinary circumstances masks the image of the action, and have left
this image isolated [divorced from its habitual realiaation]. It is then seen
that the image existed in full completeneBB, and in this case even amounted
to a hallucination. On the other hand, it is easy to show that some move-
ment [surely it would be safer to say some tendency to movement] always
accompanies a suggested hallucination. . . It is impoBBible to give to a
visual subject the visual hallucination of the movement of her arm without
the supervention of an actual movement. I told Uonie, after bandaging
her eyes, to see her left arm rising and waving in the air. [Her left lIide is
anreathetic, 110 that its automatic movements could give her no information.]
In a few moments IIhe said, 'Yell, I see it j the fingers are parted' j but at
the same time the left arm [which she cannot feel] executed just the move-
ment which she declared that IIhe saw."
The value or novelty of each experiment of this type can hardly be
judged except by those who have followed pretty closely the long lIeries of
lIuch observations which have of late been accumu)ated in France. It is, I
think, rather unfortunate that the work on Hypnotism, written for the
International Scientific Series.-though lucid and ingenioull as are all the
productions of its fertile authors,-IIhould contain at least one series of
experiments of very dubious interpretation. I allude to the transJert, and
especially the transJertpsychique,or reversal of emotion,supposed to be effected
by the agency of magnets on hYllterical SUbjects. The very curious experi-
ments of MeBBrs. Binet and F~re on this point have received little real
confirmation elsewhere j and M. Janet is, I think, probably right in
attributing the phenomena to unconscious suggestion, working on some
influence of a vaguer kind which the magnet may perhaps exert. I see,
indeed, that in his latest paper (Rev. Phil, October, 1889, p. 438) M. Binet
himself admits as an explanation of this so-called psychical polarisation the
view of Ottolenghi and Lombrollo that "the principal action of the magnet
on the organism consists in suppreBBing the phenomena previouslysuggested ;
so that-this phenomenon once effaced--8BllOCiation by contrast comes .into
play, and produces in the consciousness a negative instead of a positive
phenomenon" :-i.e., a reversal of the hallucinatory idea previously dominant.
But I must p&BB on to the s9COnddivision of M. Janet's book,-in which
he deals with partial automatism i- the subconscioull acts performed by
persons in a waking state, in obedience sometimes to previous lIuggestion in
the hypnotic trance, or sometimes to commands insinuated into the waking
subject par distractioo. i-by whispers or tactile hints which the main
(lonsciousneBB of the subject does not perceive, but which induce (say) her
anreathetic hand to write autoinatic replies. Automatic we are forced to call
these acts. but (as M. Janet justly insists) we mUllt not therefore l\88ume that
they are effected without a consciousneBB of their own. I must not here
dwell on the details of these ingenious investigations, of many of which some
.account has already been given in these Pf"OCUdings.
Rather let me once more colligate these and many similar experiments in
Digitized by Google
Supplemeat.J "Automatisme Psychologique." 195
a single hypothesis, and give to human penonality a definition as wide as
such observations seem to require. I suggest that every cell in our bodies
may have a separate memory, and therefore in a sense a rudimentary
pel'llOnality of its own. Every combination of cellB, every nerve, every
muscle, every limb or tract olthe body, with its brain-connections, may have
a more complex memory of its own, and may recollect and give account of
incidents of which the ordinary waking conaciousneB8 has never been aware.
These are separate memories which do not deserve the title of separate
peraonalitiu, except ill the sense in which that word may be applied to the
brute creation. Above this comes the immense nervous apparatus
which corresponds to the human mind: and·of this apparatus we habitually
use only some such proportion as our English vocabulary heal'll to all
poBBible combinations of the alphabet. The letten of our inward alphabet
will shape themselves into many other dialects ;-many other personalities,as
distinct as those which we assume to be OUrsel11eB, can be made out of our
mental material. In some extreme case these allotropic pel'llOnalities may
alternate with or supel'8ede the penonalities which we have learnt to call our
own. But in ordinary CABeS, where they do not thus emerge, we must not
assume that they are non-existent. It may be indeed that they are not
shaped into definite chains of memory-a Lucie II. and a Lucie I1I.-as in
M. Janet's subjects. It may be that the very formation in us of anything I!O
narrow and confined as what we know as pel'llOnality, is in itself a limitation
of our eaaential being,- a mere mode of concentration in order to meet the
perils of our environment. But in some way or other-penonalised or not
personalised-a continuous activity of our whole being goes on, of which the
results are in some sense psychical, in some sense permanent. Every
impreaaion made upon or within the organism has a psychical counterpart,
and this, or the capacity of reproducing this, is somewhere fixed and pre-
served. The question as to what part of a man's being enten into his
ordinary conaciousneaa is like the question what part of his body when he
floats on the 8eB, floats above water. It is nece88ary for his preservation that
a certain minimum should so float; but the submerged portion is living with
the same life as the portion exposed.
Our hypothesis, it is manifest, Dlay be carried one step further. Each of
the pel'llOnalities within us is itself the summation of many narrower and
inferior memories. It is conceivable that there may be for each man a yet
more comprehensive personality-or sayan individuality-which correlates
and comprises all known and unknown phases of his being. Such a notion
can no longer be dismissed as merely mystical ; analogy points to it; and
although no observation could fully prove it there may well be observations
which Dlay make it probable. But here as everywhere fearleB8 analysis is
the pre-requisite of any Bound construction. We must not shrink from
pulling ourselves to pieces if we hope to find indications that there is some-
thing in us larger and more perdurable than we had previously Bupposed.
An important chapter of M. Janet's book,-" DtSsagregation Psycholo-
gique,"-is devoted to the review of a subject where premature construction
has long hindered necessary analysis. It requires some courage,-perhaps
more courage in France even than in EngJand,-for a scientific writer so
much as to discuaa the Spiritistic literature. M. Janet faces the task.
o 2
Digitized by Google
196 Professor Pier/'e Janet's [Supplement.
though in the spirit of a chemist studying the records ofa.lchemy. .. Experi-
mental psychology," he says, "began by being animal magnetism and
spiritism i let us not forget this fact, nor laugh at our ancestors."
His treatment of the problem is careful and candid, and he has little
difficulty in explAining most of the facts accessible to him on lines familiar to
the readers of these ProceeJ.iillgs,-as the manifestation of some disintegration
of personality within the medium rather than of some invasion of a personality
from without. I say that " most of the facts accessible to him "are explica-
ble in this way. But there are, I know, other f/\ets less easy of explanation.
Never could there be a better' moment than now for some new champion of
the Spiritual explanation of automatic writing to enter the field. He must
be someone capable of understanding the essential points as to evidence of
outside intelligence on which dispassionate critics are now agreeing, and
which it is no disgrace to the earlier Spiritualists that they could not at once
divine. And he must be someone really patient, really diligent,-willing to
bestow on his experiments- what I much doubt whether any Spiritualist
author has yet done-something approaching the time and care which M.
Janet has bestowed upon his. The few cases which have been sent to myself,
by M. Aksakof and others, in response to previous appeals of this kind, are
quite enough to show the real importance to science of the fullest possible
presentation of that very theory against whose rash and hasty adoption both
M.•Tanet's arguments and my own have thus far been directed.1
This long review must now draw to a close. I may perhaps end it by
quoting a curious example given by M. Janet (p. 466) in his last chapter, "La.
Faiblesse et 1a. Force Morales." to show how the tendency to .. psychological
automatism" is latent in all of us, but gathers force to manifest itself only
when we are brought" below par " by fatigue or disease.
" It is commonly said that love is a passion to which man is always liable,
and which may surprise him at any moment of his life, from 15 to 75. This
does not seem to me accurate ; and a man is not throughout all his life and
at every moment susceptible of falling in love (de de'l1luir amoureux). When
a man is in good physical and moral health, when he has easy and com-
plete command of all his ideas, he lnay expose himself to circumstances the
most capable of giving rise to a passion, but he will not feel it. His desires
will be reasonable and obedient to his will, leading the man only so far as he
wishes to go, and disappearing when he wishes to be rid of them. On the
other hand if a man is morally below the mark (malade au nwral),-if in
consequence of physical fatigue or excessive intellectual work, or of violent
shocks and prolonged sorrow, he is exhausted, melancholy, distracted, timi(l,
incapable of controlling his ideas,-in a word, depressed,-then he will fall in
1 An allusion made by M. Janet to the Rev. P. H. Newnham (p. 392) gives me.n
opportunity of repeating my grateful /\eknowledgment of the kindnesa and candour
with which Mr. Newnham presented me with the original private note·books oontaining
his experiments,-which books I shall be glad at any time to ahow to inquirers. Mr.
Newnham, who had lived for BOme years in the calm hut oonatant expectation of death.
from disease of the hea.rt, has now pasBed away ; and I may repeat the witnE'Sll of
others who knew him more intimately than I, to the effect that A simpler, fmnker,
more one, more upright character bas mrely been met with even in that profesaion
whose duties he fulfilled BO earnestly so long as any strength to fulfil them remained.
Digitized by Google
Supplement.J ".Automatwne Psychologique." 197
love, or receive the germ of some kind of p8II8ion, on the first and most
trivial occasion. . The least thing is then enough j the sight of lome
face, a gesture, a word, which previously would have left us altogether
indifferent, strikes us, and becomes the ltarting point of a long amorous
malady. Or more than this, an object which had made no impreBBion on us,
at a moment when our mind was healthier and not capable of inoculation,
may have left in us some insignificant memory which reappears in a moment
of morbid receptivity. That is enough ; the germ is BOwn in a favourable
BOil ; it will develop itself and grow.
"There isat first, as in every virulent malady, a period of incubation ; the
new idea paBBeS and rep8ll8es in the vague reveries of the enfeebled
conaciousneBB ; then seems for a few days to have disappeared and to leave
the mind to recover from its paBBing trouble. But the idea has done its
work below the surface ; it has become strong enough to shake the body ;
and to provoke movements whose origin lies outside the primaryconaciouaneBB.
What is the surprise of a sensible man when he finds himself piteously
returning beneath the windows of his charmer, whither his wandering feet
have taken him without his knowledge i-or when in the midst of his daily
work he hears his lips mumlUring perpetuslly the well-known name !
Such is passion in its reality j not as idealised by fantastic description,
but reduced to its eBSential psychological characteristics."
It will be seen that this eloquent paBBSge,-as of a modernised Lucretius,
-is thoroughly in harmony with M. Janet's opinions, as above discUBBed,
with regard to the normal condition and neceasary limitations of the
psychical energies of man. It is opposed to the wider hopes and conceptions
which I have indicated; but I shall not here again argue the point in
detail. I shall leave it to wi eke avett int4l11etto d'amore to consider whether
M. Janet's analysis is BOund or complete,-whether such words as Plato
and Dante bave spoken concerning love are "descriptions jantctisistes,"
or living records of profoundest truth j-whether that were a sign of
strength or of weakneBB,-·that most overnlaBtering, most irrational of all
recorded passions, which yet was as a VUa Nturva to one potent heart :-
which could prompt to high effort, and soar above desire, and project
its p8II8ionate ardour beyond the gulf of death. For my part I have
lOme fear lest so soon as we come to disbelieve in the highest facts of
man's past, and to despair of surpaBBing them in man's future,-soBOonaswe
aBBume that we have already attained our full normal development, and that
the obscure strivings of this reatleBB spirit mustlead henceforth nowhither j-
then by that very aBBumption we shall have entered upon our decadence, and
invited our degeneration and decay.
This review, with the reviews which follow, must serve for the present
as a fulfilment of our promise of a survey of the existing condition of
hypnotism in France.
I have touched above on several of the points which excited most
controversy at the recent International CongreBB of Experimental Psychology,
in whose discussions hypnotism played a leading part. For the rest,
the impreBBion produced by that Congress was that of the increasing
acceptance of most of the doctrines of the Nancy school. Readers of these
Digitized by Google
198 Profes80T Pim"re Janet'8 (Supplement.
Proceedillgs will not be surpriaed at this result, which represents in fact
e88entially the triumph of generaiiBBtionB based on a wider experience over
generaiiBBtionB based on a narrower experience,-lIarrower; I say, in spite of
the vast extent and skilled organisation of the Salpetriere-because the
subjects there submitted to experiment have been all of nearly the same
type,-hysterical and epileptic invalids. The school of Nancy is gaining
ground, with its demonstration that the "three stages" of the "gt"alld
lIypnQtisme" under M. Charcot's rule are rarely reproduced elsewhere, and
are therefore not a necessary or typical manifestation of the hypnotic state.
Nancy is gaining ground with its insistance on the power of suggestion, and
its belief in the hypnotiBBtion of healthy subjects. But,-if a foreign
observer may repeat the warning which impartial judges like M. Richet are
already uttering in France,-I see a cloud on the horizon of Nancy's fame.
Its leading men (except the veteran Liebeault) are pushing their theory too
far, and insisting that all in hypnotism is suggestion, and that there are no
physical influences whatever, whether from passes, metals, or magnets. On
this point I must adhere to the view which I have often expre88ed in these
Proceediu,ljs, that p&88es almost certainly, metals probably, magnets poBBibly,
do sometimes exert a physical influence; and that we are yet farfrom having
exhausted the agencies which operate between one human being and another.
Has not the history of hypnotism thus far been a slow but repeated justifica-
tion of those who, in each succe88ive controversy, took the wider and le88
exclusive view 1 of those who recognised most frankly the magnitude, the
obscurity, the unpredictable iBBues of this ever more penetrating inquiry
into the hidden mechanism of man 1
APPENDIX 1.
Mr. Hugh Wingfield, who, when holding a University appointment as
Demonstrator of Physiology at Cambridge, had very wide opportunities of
choosing subjects from his large classes of medical students, sends me the
following statement.
September 6th, 1889.
I subjoin the results of my own experience of hypnotic subjects.
I have hypnotised at first trial over 170 men, between the ages of 17 and
28, having had about 20 per cent. of failures.
I do not know how many I could have hypnotised had I persisted, as, if I
failed once, I never tried again.
The subjects, with the exception. of 18, were 'all undergraduates. Con-
sidering the extreme rarity of hysteria among men in England, it is utterly
incredible that I should have hit upon 170 hysterical men haphazard.
Besides, I always refused to hypnotise anyone unless I believed them to be
perfectly free from hysteria.
III the ollly three cases where abnormal symptoms presented themselves
during the hypnotic state (I cannot say that the symptoms were hysterical),
I rejected the SUbjects.
In most cases I did not test the subjects for hemi-anresthesia or other
hysterical symptoms, a.~ it was quite superfluous to do so; but in certain
experiments on sensation it was Ilecessary to test the sensation of both
Digitized by Goo~
Supplemeat.) CIAutomatilnne Psychologique." 199
handa j and 1 have also sometimes tested the sensation of both forearms and
the two sides of the face j yet in no single instance could 1 detect any
abnormality whatever.
With regard to the other casllll, none so far as 1 know (I have only
inquired of a few) had ever had any symptom of hysteria.
It seems distinctly unfair to argue that because hysterical subjects are
easily hypnotised, all subjects must be hysterical. Besides which, 1 very
much doubt the susceptibility of aU hysterical persons. 1 have found two
whom 1 could IIC&rcely in1luence at all. Personally, 1 am quite convinced that
large numbers of persons who have no symptom of hysteria whatever can be
readily hypnotised.
H. E. WINGFIBLD.
APPENDIX n.
On the general question of the comparative frequency of hysteria in
France and England, Dr. A. T. Myers sends me the following note:-
.. The position of hysteria among the diseases of England and France is
very different. The' grande hyatirie' which French study has of recent
ye&1'll defined and accentuated among nearly all large collections of the
young as well as of the sick in France, and more especially in Paris, is
hard to find in England even when sougbt for, and very imperfect in
its French equipment of anresthesUe and parreathesUe and elaborate sequence
of four periods of convulsion, 10 that it offers comparatively little op-
portunity for testing, for instance, whether metallo-therapy acts purely
by suggestion or not. And the •petite hy.tbie,' the po88ibility of which
the French observer can never forget when he is dealing with young people,
especially if they are being bypnotised, is out of the question for almost
every one of such subjects as have come most completely under Mr. G. A.
Smith's in1luence and furnished the staple of Mr. Gurneyis inductions.
Cases of it may be found, no doubt, in a few morbid conditions of health and
surroundings in all claasea in England, but not among the vigorous, hard-
working telegraph boys, or apprentices to active trades, who have to spend
half their day in the open air and to learn how to use their muscles•
.. The diffusion of hysteria among the European races seems to be far from
uniform. The widest experience showl that the French have on the whole
had the most cases to deal with (Striimpell) j and among them lOme of the
most severe type. .The Italians, Spaniards, and Greeks apparently sufl'er
more from hysteria than the English, Germans, or Dutch. Among the
Sclavonic races tbere are occasional limited endemics (Hirsch) j and the J eWI
are credited with a large percentage (Grasaet).
Digitized by Google
200 Binet on the OOnscW'U8ne88 of [Supplement.
IV.
BINET ON THE CONSCIOUSNESS OF HYSTERICAL
SUBJECTS.l
By F. W. H. MYERS,
M. Binet is doubtleu known to most ot our readers aa one of the most
ingenious and suggestive of modern French experimental psychologists. He
has ~orked mainly in &88OCiation with Dr. Fere, and at the Salpetriere ; but his
range of speculation is wide, and his book on La P.ychologie du Rai8ont~lt,
and his Etudes de P8!/clwlogie Exptlrimelltale enjoy a just reputation. The
present article is an account of experiments performed on hysterics at
the Salp6triere ; and on this point two preliminary remarks must be made.
In the first place, one feels that the Salp&triere has, in a sense, Hen
smothered in its own abundance. The richest collection of hysterics which
the world has ever seen, it has also (one fears) become a kind of unconscious
school of these unconscious prophets-a milieu where the new arrival learns
insensibly from the very atmosphere of experiment around her to adapt her
own reftexes or responses to the subtly-divined expectations of the operator.
One is inclined, therefore, to wait until a series of Salp&triere experiments
have been independently confirmed elsewhere before offering t11em to an
English public, which, from our marked poverty in hysterics, is little likely
to have the chance of verifying the results de "un.
But in this case M. Binet's experiments are so strikingly in concordance
with the quite independent results obtained both by M. Pierre Janet and
by some of ourselves in England,-and are, moreover, in themselves so easy
of repetition, if only a properly anresthetic subject can be secured,-that
some account of them seems due to the readers of these Proceedings.
In the second place, it may be said that these are pathological phenomena ;
and that our Society is not concerned with disease. To this I answer that
these are not pathological phenomena, but pathological revelations of normal
phenomena, which is a very different thing. The gearing of the hysteric's
inward factory is disconnected; the couplings are shifted in all sorts of
injurious ways; some of the wheels are standing still, and some are whizzing
useleuly round and round. But the wheelwork is still all there; and by
observing the various hitches and stoppages which are now taking place, we
can get a better notion of the way the power is spplied than the smoothly-
working, carefully-boxed machinery of the healthy subject is likely to give
us. Above all, we must avoid the assumption that the hysteric p088eBBeS
any capacity whatever which we do not all of us potentially POUeBB. Is the
hysteric hyperresthetic 1 Then so do we all potentially POSSeBB the acutenesa
of smell or sight or hearing which she manifests. No fresh anatomical
element is added to her ear or eye j no fresh physiological property to any
one molecule in her body. What she can do, we can do,-only as that haa not
1 Recherches BUr It'ls Alterations de la Conscience chez lea Hyateriquea. A. Binet,
.Revuc PhWnophiqllf, February, 1889.
Digitized by Google
Supplemeut.J Hysterical Subjects. 201
been the most useful way of exerting our innate powers, our ancestry has 80
arl'lmged us that those hysterical delicacies of perception remain in us latent
and unknown. Is the hysteric dil80ciable into two or more co-existent
personalities1 Then so are we also presumably dissociable; our machinery
is made on the same plan as hers; though the belt which fer her has slipped
from the shaft, in us still keepa its place, and holds our personalities together.
Nay more, if that purely imaginary entity, the normal man, is still held
up before us as incapable ex lIi termi1~i of any change which is not degener-
ation, we shall reply that after all it is one of the perfections of a complex
instrument to admit of the ready disconnection of its constituent parts ; and
that our true ideal should be,-neither the rigid connections of 8O-called
normality, nor the ungovernable disconnections of hysteria,-but a condition
in which we should be able to connect or disconnect any element within us
at pleasure. We can at present do this to a slight extent, and we account
this power as a gain. It is a gain, for instance, to be able to abstract one's
attention,-to become temporarily anresthetic to noises around one. Thismay,
indeed, be pushed too far; as we know that a soldier cut off Archimedes'
head while that philosopher was meditating on the hypothenuse. But our
ideal should go beyond Archimedes i-it should be to cut off the soldier's
head with one of our personalities, while we meditate unbrokenly on the
hypothenuse with the other.
Let us proceed now to M. Binet and his hysterics; remembering that
just as, in Mr. Herbert Spencer's phrase, .. the mobile in expression repruent
the race,"-give overt manifestation to such slight changes as pass over the
moods of all ;"-80 also do these far more profoundly mobile beings .. repre-
sent the race" in deeper fashion i-sometimes even dissect away our recent
nervous acquisitions, and lay bare processes that correspond to a long-past
stage of evolution.
The first point to remark is that the anresthetic limb of a hysteric is
almost always capable of certain simple movements, which it executes with-
out the subject's knowledge, or when concealed from the subject by a screen.
If the anresthetic arm, for instance, is moved in a certain way, and then left
to itself, it continues the movement. If it is guided into writing a word or
words, and then left to itself, it will repeat the word, or continue the sentence.
It acts, in short, very much as the subject's planchette-writing hand in Mr.
Gurney's experiments acted when fulfilling a post-hypnotic suggestion. Let
us see how far this supposed anresthetic arm is really intelligent, or is really
susceptible of pain.
If we merely prick the anresthetic hand it in no way re&ets,-shows no
disposition to avoid the pin. Perhaps this is because the pin-prick awakes
no definite conception. Let us try a more complex stimulus.
.. We place in the right (anresthetic) hand of Amelie CIa- a box of
matchea ; a large vertical screen prevents the patient from seeing her hand.
After a moment's contact the right hand clasps the box; fingers it; seems
to recognise it ; strikes a match and holds it alight; as the flame advances
the fingers withdraw, as if they felt and shunned the heat; and when the
flame nears t,he end of the match the fingers open and the match falls."
From this experiment it is not clear whether pain is felt, or whether the
whole act is a mere piece of what, in a 1I0rmai waking person, we ca 1
Digitized by Google
202 Binet on the ConscW'U8ne88 oj [Supplement.
BeOondary automatism j-the repetition of a familiar series of actions without
conscious attention.
Let us now,-I abbreviate M. Binet's account,-give the match-box to a
second subject, L. Lavr-. She opens the box, but having taken out a match
imagines it to be a pencil, and tries to write with it. We light the match
and give it back to her. She does not realise that it is a match, and holds
this and a second burning match till they are consumed or go out, and her
fingers are much burnt. This resembles an imperfect instinct j as when
ants store up beads which the observer has sown ill their hunting-fields.
The rtlllult of the experiment with another subject, Louise St. Am., is
still more curious. She drops the burning match, but then at once picks it
up again. This resembles the tendency of caterpillars, &c., to go back to
the beginning of a series of actions, if interrupted.l The Sphex which, after
its burrow had been, to its knowledge, emptied of the prey which it
wished to wall up there, walled up the usele88 burrow all the same, before
beginning another, was obeying the same instinct as Louise, of continuing
the series of actions in the accustomed order, without regard to the special
circumstances of the case. Sphex and anresthetic hand each afforded an
instance of "lapsed intelligence," nervous adjustments originally acquired
by intelligent effort, but now irrecoverably sunk into routine. "How,"
asks M. Binet, "can one explain the preservation of tactile sensibility along
with the 1088 of sensibility to pain 1 Are there two orders of sensibility in
connection with different centres 1 Are there nerves for pain, a centre for
pain, distinct from the nerves and centres of sensation 1 Or does the
distinction between these two senRibilities consist in a fact of central
perception 1 If the sensibility to pain seems to be BuppreBSed both for the
primary personality and for the secondary persoIU\lity,-that is to say, for the
a.nresthetic limb,-are we to conclude that hysterical analgesia, in certain
subjects, may be an absolute destruction of sensibility to pain, and not an
alteration of consciousne88 1"
I should reply that we must not so conclude in any absolute manner j but
that all aIU\logy shows that where there is not actual previous lesion or
atrophy of the nerves the injury to them is perceived and the pain is-I do
not say felt, but recognised,-by some personality or other. I must suppose
that in Louise St. Am.'s case, just as in the case of Blanche Witt-, (men-
tioned in the review of Dr. Jules Janet's paper, vi<l. info p. 216), there is a
yet deeper personality which the experimenter has not reached, and which
was all the time mutely upbraiding the folly of the anresthetic hand in
mistaking a lighted match for a lead pencil.
As regards the diB8OCiation of tactile from dolorous sensibility, I may
just remark that it is quite p088ible that our earliest monocellular ancestors
may have p088e88ed the power of feeling contact, but not of feeling pain.
If sensibility to pain be a protective character acquired in thc struggle for
existence, the hysterical severance of the two sensibilities is le88 incredible
than it may at first appear.
The next point of interest observed by M. Binet lies in the automatic
writing of thcse hysterical subjects. " When a hysteric holds a pen in her
anresthetic hand [concealed by a screen], in the attitude appropriate to
1 Darwin in Romanee' Mental Et'Olution in Animah, p. 119.
Hy8terical Subject8. 203
writing, the pen will register the ideas which predominate in her conscious-
nelS." U the subject is told to think of a name or a number, the pen-
unknown to her primary self-will write that name or number. Or, if the
subject spontaneously thinks of a number, and the operator then lifts a finger
of the aDlellthetic hand several times in succeasion, the finger will stiffen
when the operator has reached the number which the primary self is thinking
of. The allresthetic hand can thus be taught to indicate the subject's thoughts
by a variety of gestures, though it is slow in learning to substitute one gesture
for another,-e.g., finger-lifting for writing.
And now let us reverse the proceas; let us give the information first to
the anresthetic hand, and see whether, and in what form, the same kind of
subterraneous communication will transmit the intelligence to the primary
self. Let us take the simplest fonn of experiment; which is also one of the
most interesting to students of automatic writing.
.. The first subject observed was a hysterical woman, MIII-,whose right
arm was anresthetic. She did not perceive the passive movements of a
general kind which were communicated to this arm; but if one placed a pen
in her right hand, and made the hand write a word, the patient at once
gueased the word, with her eyes shut. She neverthele88 did not feel, she
said, the graphic movement communicated to her hand; but she had a
visual image of the word, which appeared to her suddenly, •as if it were
written in chalk on a black-board.'''
M.Binet appears to think that his own are the first observations of this
curious co-operation of the motor activity of one phase of personality with
the visual perceptions of another. Were he in the habit of referring to
English works, he would find the phenomenon noted and illustrated in the
Society for Psychical Research Proceedi1'!18, Vol. III., p. 59, &.0., (in a paper
read Janual"y, 1885), and fornlulated (as xx' + 88' + w'), among a series of
kindred phenomena there described.
An interesting variety in the experiment is as follows: M. Binet desires
the subject to think spontaneously of a word. Meantime he makes her
alll!ellthetic hand write a certain word of his own choice. She proceeds t<;
utter that word, under the impre88ion that she has spontaneously thought of
it. The analogy here with post-hypnotic suggestion is very marked. The
anlBllthetic hand, like the dormant hypnotic personality, makes a suggestion
to the primary personality which that personality imlOcently accepts as its
own spontaneous choice.
Another experiment is curious from the metaphysical question which it
suggests as to the distinction between pain and the idea of pain. In the case
of two hysterics, when the skin of the aDlellthetic arm is pinched, behind a
screen, .. the patient, carefully interrogated, with avoidance of allsuggeation,
spontaneGusly declares that she has the idea of a painful seD88tion. She
does not suffer from it, for she is persuaded that she is insensible, but she
admits that the idea of this pain is disagreeable to her. There is thus a kind
of transfOrmAtion of physical pain into mental pain, like. that which occurs
when one imagines or recalls to memory some bodily suffering." The pain,
in fact, as I have before said, is recognUed rather than felt; and it is a fair
question for metaphysical argument whether that pain existed at all.
The phonomenon (as I at least should say) which is common to these
Digitized by Google
204 Binet on the COnsCWU8ne8S of [Supplement.
and many similar experiments, is that communications from one state of
personality to another,-what, for sheer lack of a word. I have ventured
to call metheetic communications (p. (8, note),-impre88 themselves on the
percipient personality,-just as telepathic communications do,-by means of
visual or auditory images, or obacure perceptions, which may develop into
actual hallucinations. The submerged personality is writing; it gives to the
elUergent personality the hallucination of seeing words written in chalk on a
board. The submerged personality is suffering a definite localised smart; it
gives to the emergent personality a vague quasi-hallucinatory idea of pain.
Naturally it is when visual images are evoked in the emergent person-
ality that these communications are most distinct. Nor is it only so definite
a movement as the writing of the anlesthetic hand whicb can get itself
represented in visual form. "With some patients," says M. Binet, "the
visual image determined by the peripheral excitation [of pinches, &C.]
augments in intensity to the point where it extemalises itselfas a hallucination.
Tbus, when one bas repeatedly pricked the insensible hand of Lav-, while
she is occupied in reading, she presently sees the book become covered with
little black points which hide and coniuse the text; she is obliged to give up
reading."
Here the annoyance given to the submerged personality was represented
to the emergent personality by a hallucinatory vision, symbolical of the
points of pain. Compare Mr. Gurney's experiment (Proceedings, IV., p. 319),
where the stress of competition between the normal and the hypnotic per-
sonalities represented itself to the hypnotic personality, when emergent in
its tunl, as a disturbing hallucinatory figure.
"P-l was told several times, 'It has left off snowing'; and then,
when woke and set to the planchette, he was made to read aloud. The
writing which appeared was: It has lfeft sn-, and while this was proceeding
the reading was bad and stumbling. Re-hypnotisation afforded a
glimpse of the condition in which the secondary intelligence had found itself.
Asked what he had been doing, the subject replied, 'Trying to write, It has
left off snowing. ' Asked if he had been reading, he said. 'Reading! No, I
haven't been reading,' and added, 'Something seemed to disturb me.'
How was that 1 'Something seemed to keep moving about in fl'ont of lUe,
so I got back into bed again.' Didn't Mr. Gurney hold a book and make
you read aloud 1 'No, somebody kept moving about. I didn't like the looks
of them. Kept wandering to and fro. Horrible, awful! I thought to myself,
I'll get into bed.' "
And now, before concluding, let us extend our area of comparison a little
further yet. All these experinlents of M. Binet's have been in the well-
known Salplitriere atmosphere. They have all been cuncerned with la malacle ;
and it has been taken for granted that this dissociation of personalities
through the agency of local anlesthesia could only occur on diseased
subjects. It has, of course, been assumed also-it would seem absurd to
question it,-that the anresthetic arm was necessarily less rational, le88
intelligent, tlum the primary llersonality, which had apparently the use of
the head. Let us see whet-her it is really safe to make either the one or the
other a88umption.
In the Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research,
Digitized by Google
Supplement.J Hysteri{XJ}, S'IJ,lYjects. 205
Vo1. I., p. 549, Profesaor William James, of Harvard, who is a physician
as well as a psychologist, cites the following case from his own observation.
"William L. Smith, of Concord, Mass., student at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, age 21, perfectly healthy and exceptionally intelli-
gent . . . sat with )Ir. Hodgson and myself, January 24th, 1889, with
his right hand extended on the instrument [planchette], and his face averted
and buried in the hollow of his left arm, which lay along the table. Care
was taken not to lIuggest to him the aim of the inquiry, [i. e., to test for
aruesthesia induced in healthy subjects by the mere act of automatic writing.]
"The planchette began by illegible scrawling. After ten minutes I
pricked the back of the right hand several timell with a pin-no indication of
feeling. Two pricks on the left hand were followed by withdrawal, and the
question, • What did you do that for l' to which I replied, •To find whether
you were going to sleep.' The first legible words which were written after
this were, Yu", hurt me. •••• After some more or less illegible writing, I
pricked the right wrist and fingers several times again quite severely, with
no sign of reaction on S. 's part. After an interval, however, the pencil
wrote: Don't yot, prick me any more. S. then said,• My right hand is pretty
well asleep.' I tellted the two hands immediately, by pinching and pricking,
but found no dift'erence between them, both apparently tumnal. S. then said
that what he meant by •asleep' was the feeling of •pins and needlell,' which
an insensible limb has when • waking up.'
"The last written lIentence was then deciphered aloud. S.laughed,having
been conscioull only of the pricks on his left hand, and said, •It'll working
those two pin-pricks for all they are worth.'
..I then asked •What have I been excited about to-day l' May be correct,
don't k1lO1D, pos6ibly sleeping. •What do you mean by sleeping 1' Answer:
I dm~'t know. Yot, [distinct figure of a pin] me "ill~teen times and thitik rzz
write for yo"."
Thus we see that local alUllSthesia was produced on the hand of a healthy
subject, but apparently only just so long as that hand was writing the
messages of a submerged self. And when, on a later day, the pencil was
placed in the left hand instead of the right, the left hand took up the
memories of the right hand's previous sufferings.
.. Here," says Profeasor James, "as the reader will perceive, we have the
consciousness of a subject split into two parts, one of which expresses itself
through the mouth, and the other through the hand, whilst both are in
communication with the ear. The mouth-consciousness is ignorant of all that
the hand suft'ers or does j the hand-consciousneBB is ignorant of pin-pricks
inflicted upon other parts of the body j and of what more remains to be
ascertained. If we call this hand-consciousness the automatic consciousness,
then we also perceive that the automatic consciousness may transfer itself
from the right hand to the left, and carry its own peculiar store of memories
with it."
Here, then, we have an independent experiment,-dating from before the
publication of M. Binet's experiments above discuBBed,-and exhibiting in a
.. perfectly healthy" subject exactly the phenomena which M. Binet elicited
from his maladu. Perhaps those who hold that automatism is always
associated with disease, will say that here the automatism was the sol.
Digitized by Google
206 Hysterical, Subjeci8. [Supplement.
manifestation of a diseased tendency which revealed iteelf in no other way.
This argument, however, is plainly liable to be reduced ad ab3umum by
the continued production of healthy automatists. And after Mr. Gurney's
and Mr. Wingfield's experiments, there can, I think, be no doubt that
healthy automatists can be produced in any quantity, if sufficient trouble be
taken. But while in France we see well-equipped physicians experimenting
in eager rivalry in hospitals teeming with bysterics, we in England have no
such organisation either of researchers or of subjects for research. Instead
of summoning obedient maladu in endle88 proceBSion, we have to induce
healthy independent persons to lay their hands on planchettes which they
regard as gro88ly superstitious, or to hold pencils which they are finnly
persuaded that no automatism will ever stir. We must not be surprised if
the French report a dozen experiments to our one, until more of us put our
hands to the wheel. And now to conclude with a case admittedly bizarre,
admittedly abnormal, but which illustrates w~th ev~n absurd unexpectedne88
the immense variety which these phenomena of dissocisted personality may
aBSume. The report, included in Professor James's paper above cited, comes
from the late Dr. Ira Barrows, ofProvidence, R. I., and is corroborated by his
surviving partner, and by the mother and brother of the late patient herself.
This was a case of hystero-epilePllY, in the course of which the patient
"complains of great pain in right arm, more and more intense, when
suddenly it falls down by her side. She looks at it in amazement. Thinks
it belongs to some one else; positive it is not hers. • • Cut it, prick it,
do what you please with it, she takes no notice of it. . . She believes it
to be an arm and a hand, but treats it as if it had intelligence and might
keep away from her. She bites it, pounds it, pricks it, and in many ways
seeks to drive it from her. She calls it •Stump; Old Stump.' ..
Now comes the odd pArt of the story. This paralysed arm, which used to
write automatically on its own account, in what may now claim to be the
orthodox fashion, showed itself in one way unique among all dissociated arm-
personalities. It operated, namely, as a kind of guardian angel or Dremon
of Socrates j it was helpful amid the hysteric turmoil j it was perfectly
rational while the unlucky head and trunk were raving in frenzy.
" When her delirium is at its height, as well as at all other times, her
right hand is rational, asking and answering questions in writing; giving
directions, trying to prevent her tearing her clothes. When she pulls out
her hair it seizes and holds her left hand. When she is asleep it carries on
conversation the 88me ; writes poetry ; never sleeps; acts the part of a nurse
as far as it can ; pulls the bed clothes over the patient, if it can reach them,
when uncovered; raps on the head-board to awaken her mother (who always
sleeps in the room), if anything occurs, as spasms," &c.
" Thy right hand," said the Psalmist, "shall teach thee terrible things."
He foresaw that the uncontrollable impulse, as against the enomies of the
Lord, would outrun even the legitimate thirst for slaughter. But it needed
a subtler psychology to teach us that the right hand may moderate as woll
as madden, may control instead of urging the violent unreasoning blow. For
to the unsleeping guardian within us all paths of externalisation come alike ;
while yet all together are all too few, and glance, voice, hand in unison can
show but a fragment of the Self.
Digitized by Google
Supplemsnt.) "DaB Doppel-ich."
v.
"DAB DOPPEL-ICH."I
By F. W. H. MuRS.
207
Weare glad to welcome this first publication of the Berlin Society for
Experimcntal Psychology, a body whose aims, 88 our readers well know, have
a close affinity with our own. Dr. Max Deaaoir, secretary of that aociety,
and author of the tractate now to be diBcu88ed, is already known to us 88 the
compiler of an accurate and serviceable Bibliography of Hypnotism and
kindred subjects. His present work, while consisting mainly of a careful and
competent digest of French and English experiments and theories, which have
received frequent discu88ion in these columns, gives evidence also of indepen-
dent thonght and philosophical insight. It has a special interest 88 one of the
pioneer pamphlets which begin to mark the entrance of German science into
a wide region of experimental psychology in which the Teutonic founders of
psycho-physiology have for the moment been outstripped by French, and
perhaps by English, inquiry.
Merely indicating the lines of thonght which the earlier part of the
tractate pursues, 1 shall reserve my space mainly for certain reflections
which its conclusion snggests.
" In the course of ordinary life"-I quote a passage (p. 6) which gives the
keynote of much that follows-"certain actions occur which presuppose for
their origination all the faculties of the human spirit, but which ne\"erthel888
work themselves out without the knowledge of the agent. These actions we
term automatic. Among them are certain automatic movements, as the act
of dressing oneself, or of retracing a well-known path; and some other
automatic performanccs, such 88 counting one's steps, or adding up columns
of figures. These latter acts· plainly indicate the existence of a separate
train of fIUl1IWf'!/ employed upon them. And, moreover, although they take
place without the agent's kflowledge, they cannot take place without his
cmlBCiolllltlU3; they cannot be truly tUlCOMCiow acts. They must in some
fashion belong to a Bub-consciousn888 which, in its relation to the far more
potent tcppe1' COnaciOU8D888, may best be understood if we consider it as a
/lIlW1idary consciousne88. And if we regard COllsciouane88 and Memory as
the essential constituents of an Ego, we may boldly say that every man con-
ceala within himself the germs of " second personality."
The experiments of the Berlin Society seem to have thus far been made
on healthy subjects; and Dr. De880ir is decidedly opposed to the view that
severance of personality is the special characteristic of hysteria. " In dreams,"
1 DaI Doppel·lch, von Max Dessoir. (Karl SiegiHmund, Berlin.) This forms
thefirlt fa.ecicule (it is numbered II., but .. subsequent notioeoorreots this) of the
.. Schriften der Gesellschaft fUr Experimental Psychologie zu Berlin." A 8eOOnd
faecicule bas sinoe been published, containing two papers, by Professor Bastian and
F. von Hellwa.ld.
Digitized by Google
..
208 "DM Doppel-ich." [Sapplemeat.
he says, p. 13., "in states of intoxication, in accesses of somnambulism or of
epilepsy, a consciousness distinct from the habitual consciousness assumes the
sway; and, moreover, mnemonic chains, more or less coherent, are wont to
connect these isolated periods of abnonnality.l The secondary memory thus
originated is not always wholly shut offfrom the primary train of existence,-
as it was in Macnish's patient, the American lady, -rather there is generally
some connection between the two memories, as in the case of Felida X. But
in either case there may be a manifestchange of character in the transition to
the secondaryself,so that two personalitiesS in every way disparate may inhabit
a single body. In the case of hysterical patients the dnal Ego is much less
fully developed. But the careful study of their automatic movements leads
to the same conclusion as to the existence and nature of a 8ubmerged con-
sciousness as is suggested by the inward experience of healthy men."
A very felicitous experiment (p. 19) serves to illustrate the persistence,
throughout healthy waking life, of a submerged consciousness which may at
any time rise to the surface if the hypnotic state be induced.
.. Several friends were in my room, one of whom, Mr. W., was
reading to himself while the rest of us were talking with one another.
Someone happening to mention the name of Mr. X., in whom Mr. W. is
much interested, Mr.W. raised his head and ask6d •What was that about X l'
He knew nothing, he told us, of our previous conversation ; he had only
heard the familiar name, as often happens. I then hypnotised him, with
his consent, and when he was pretty deeply entranced, I asked him again as
to the conversation. To our great astonishment, he now repeated to us the
substance of our whole conversation during the time that he was reading to
himself. In this case, then, there was a perception of sensory impressions,
but not in the consciousness with which the waking man worked i-rather in
another consciousness which found its first opportunityof revealing itself
in the hypnotic trance."
In this case, as in some of the experiments with crystals reported in the
last Part of these Proceedings,we find the unconscious Self noting,treasurimt,
and reproducing certain infonnation, conveyed indeed through the chalmel
of the ordinary senses, but so conveyed that it never reached the emergent or
ordinary consciousness of that same percipient in whose depths it was all the
while being registered. From this it inn easy step to the supposition that
the submerged consciousness may stand .. im innigstetl ZtuammellJuzfuJ ,nit
dem Klirper," and that the somnambule may thus possess a deeper insight
into his own organio processes than belongs to him in the waking state.
.. Perhapa," continues Dr. Dessoir (p. 31), .. the secondary Self
presides also over those powers of peroeption and action at a distance
which only a few observers haveas yet admitted. In experiments on thought-
transference it is observable that the percipient frequently is not conscious of
the transferred impression, but reproduces it by automatic word or drawing;
.' and there is no doubt that in certain subjects the receptivity is heightened by
the induction of the hypnotio trance,· or of some analogous state. The
1 (Cf. SPR. Proceeding" Vol. III. p. 225.)
'. Dr. Dessoir's word is Individualitaten. It is to be wished that a general agree-
ment could be reached 88 to the use of th_ two words. The meaning of ptrBOna, a
mask, suggests that personality should be used for the lower or le88 pel'l\istent unity.
Digitized by Google
Supplement.J .. Das Doppel-wh." 209
hypnotisation at a distance, moreover, which French savants have established
as a fact, is best thus explained, by ascribing to the unconscious Self a far-
reaching range of perception, and a power of developing an impreBSion
telepathically received &I freely ae though it had arrived by the ordinary
channels of sense."
Dr. DeBSoir, however, ieems to suppose that in experiments on thought-
transference with numbers, the "number-habit" constitutes a risk of error
difficult to exclude. Perhaps a few words on this subject may here be in
place j since the number-habit seems sometimes to be regarded ae more of a
my.tery, and sometimes ae more of a dUcovery, than it is in fact. Every
psychical act or incident of any kind,-perception, image, choice, motor
impulse, or what YOll will,-is an extremely complex thing. It is the result
of the co-operation of a grest number of nervous elements, which cannot
poBSibly work in exactly the same way in any two persons, or even for the same
person at di1ferent times. In the first place, for each of these complex acta
there will be a limit of attainment beyond which each person cannot go; ae each
man is found to have his "personal equation" when the object is to observe
as promptly ae poBSible the transit of a star. In the second place, whenever
a choice between acts at all diaaimilar has to be made, there will be a path of
lea&t ruistatlC6 common either to all mankind, or to SODle special section of
mankind. Thus it is easier to read the letter W than the letter E, &c.
A great variety of such experiments have been mAde j and we may safely
say that even between such small efforts as the reading, writing, uttering,
or mentally picturing any given Arabic numerals there must be some
di1l'erence in the effort required j and consequently some general number-
habit which indicates what is the path of least resistance for the majority of
men. But where the di1ference of effort is BO alight, the general or popular
number-habit will be very weak, and it may easily be over-borne in any
given man by some idioByncratic preference. For in the third place,-and
this perhaps haa not alwaYB been clearly seen,- there is liable to exist in
each man an idioayncratic preference for one of two efforts demonBtrably
equivalent,-such idioayncratic preference.depending on some aeymmetry
in his own mental images. Let there be two hazards at billiards which
are mathematically of identical difficulty, the object-ball needing to be Btruck
within the same limits of accuracy in each case, although in slightly di1fering
waya,-and you will find A choosing one hazard and B the other, not at
random, but in accordance with some asymmetry in their respective mental
pictures of table, balls, and probable resultB of impact. And of course
this idioayncratic preference-depending perhaps originally on some
inequality of early experience-will tend to intensify itself, if yielded to,
until a real muscular preference is superadded to the preference baaed
upon mere conceptual aeymmetry.
There is tW choice, I say, however simple or arbitrary-not even the
choice between heads and tails or odd and even-which the human mind can
be trusted to make as impartially ae the spun penny or the roulette-ball
would make it.
There will presumably therefore be idioayncratic number-habits,
as well ae general number-habits, and although these are not likely to
become strong without being observed, still leBS to become 80 potent as to
p
Digitized by Google
210 "Dais Doppel-ich." [Supplement.
explain coincidences in double-number, thought of by two Beparate minds, it
is undoubtedly proper to eliminate this possible source of error from experi-
menta in thought-transference. We have made it a rule, since our tirst few
experiments, to replace uumbers in a bag, or cards in the pack, and shuftle
between each trial, and draw at random; as described, for instance, in
Phantasms o/the LiM'1J, Vol. I.• p. 34; Vol. II., p. 653.1
A moment's thought will show, however, that if we thus annihilate the
influence of the uumber-habit in the agent, or person who offers the numbers
for thought-transference, the existence of a number·habit in the pef'(Jip~&t,
or person who guesees the numbers, will in no way diminish, but may poasibly
even improve, the evidential value of any exce88 of coincidences between the
numbers offered and the numbers guessed.¥ Suppose, to take an extreme
case, that the percipient's number-habit were 110 strong that he always
guessed a 3, then if he deserted his 3 and guessed a 5 just when the agent
thought of 5 the coincidence would be much more striking than if he had
had no number-preference of his own to overcome. Of course, in practice
there are no such gr088 effects as this; and for evidential purposes we may
simply neglect the percipient's number-habit if we take care to neutralise
the agellt', number-habit or card-habit by making him draw his cards or his
numbers at random.
From this topic·- on which Dr. De880ir touches rather by the way-I pass
(In to a more complex problem. Recognising our personality lUI no single or
simple thing, are we to regard it as potentially multiplex, or duplex only 13
.. While there are abundant examples," says Dr. De880ir (p. 26)" of a
double consciousne88, in the waking life, the dreams, and the abnormal states
of every ohe of us, we find, on the other hand,that very few observers enter
the lists in defence of the multiplicity of the Ego. A Dlere triplicity, indeed,
would not suffice. Were we to discover, in some subject, with a third con-
dition like Mada.me B. 's, that there were still intelligent acts which accom-
plished themselves below the level of that third consciousne88, we should
then strike down on a yet deeper layer of consciousne88, and so on ad
·infinitum. We should arrive at a kind of onion-structure of the Soul! But
since the facts are there, and refuse to be explained away by the facile
hypothesis of suggestion,we shall need the most patient psychological analysis
to bring us to our goal. In the present position of our knowledge I think
that the wisest course is to suspend our judgment, and to be satisfied with
the provisional hypothesis that in certain cases a further division of the
secondary Self has been established. That a comcWtUfIeBl deeper than the
1 I mention this because Profeaaor C. S. Minot has animadverted in the American
Society for Psychical Researoh Procteding, on our early omission (rectified longbefore
his article appeared) to take this precaution. See American S.P.R. Proceeding"
Part IV., for his criticism and Mr. Hodgson's reply.
2 Professor Minot hardly seems to have caught this point. II The two minds,"
he says (American Proceeding.,Vol I., p. 86), II were working differently. each aooord-
ing to its own habits; hence it is extremely improbable that the excess of right guesses
was due to anything but chance ooincidence." In reality, the habit of the peroipient's
mind, if different, as here stated, from the agent's habit, would not diminish, but in-
crease, the evidential value of the ooincidencea.
I On this point see Mr. Barkworth's lett6rs in the S.P.R. Jouf'fUll, March and
April. 1889. .
Digitized by Google
Supplement.J "Das Doppel-ich." 211
hypnotic can be artificially created is shown by the well-known negative
hallucinations of hypnotised subjects [where certsill objects are kept out ofthe
hypnotic consciousneBS by some still subjacent intelligence]. But for the
formation of a new personality we need a new mnemonic chain [as well as a
new consciousneBS],-and this seems seldom to be found itl existence."
I do not disagree with this; but I think that we may probe the matter
still deeper. It is not by /10 mere counting of heads (to use a somewhat
inappropriate metaphor) that we must decide the question as to how many
potential personalities we carry within us. "Man never knows how
anthropomorphic he is"; and we have still to guard against anthropo-
morphism even while we are frankly contemplating ourselves in a state of
segmentation. I mean that we must not let the unavoidable use of the
word "personality" deceive us into supposing that any separate conscious-
neBS, any distinct chain of memory which rises within us must neceBBarily
form a constituent of /10 secondary personality of somewh/lot the same scope
and stature as the first. What seems really to happen is something far more
complex than a mere fiBSion into two personalities,-the second as good as
the first, or better. There is no persistent plane of cleavage; we split
asymmetrically; /Iond the new personalities thus formed /lore by no means
neCOBBarily homologous with the old. There is every gradation from a
secondary state like Felida X.'s, more stable than the primary, to the week-
long or hour-long "controls" which sway the hand and sign the meBSages of
the graphic automatist.
Or take the class of cases mentioned by Dr. DeBSOir himself. The hypno-
tised A is told that B has left the room; and, consequently, cannot see B. ;
-i.e. (as has been amply shown by Lieg~ois /Iond others), he does physically
see B, but he receives a constant, watchful, dominating suggestion from
somewhat within him that B cannot be seen. This is what they call at the
SalpAtriere, a "systematised an_thesia." The name is good; but who
systematises the anresthesia 1 What intelligence is it which thus prevents A
from "psychically seeing" B, who is standing in the room before his eyes 1
The suggestion must come, as Dr. Dessoir justly suggests, from astill Bubjacent
consciouBneBS. But where, he inquires, is the chain of memory belonging to
that consciousneBS, and needed to complete a subjacent person/lolity-if Buch
personality could exist 1 In answer, I would say that I believe that by pro-
per artifices that third inhibitory personality could be tracked in other
moments of the subject's life. But waiving this point, I will suppose that
the hypothetical third personality comes into being with the experiment and
vanishes at ita cloBe. Well, at any rate, it has existed during the experi-
ment ; it has fulfilled a task which needed memory, or at any rate continuous
attention, prolonged over an hour. And what hard and fast rule can we
make as to the neceBBary length of a chain of memory which is to
constitute a personality 1 MUBt it last all life long 1 Then, if a man'B
brain iB deBtined to soften next year, he is not a personality to-day.
Or, again, with what definiteneBS of exclusion need the new memory
be Bhut off from the old 1 It Bometimes happens, as Delbreuf and others
have shown, that a subject who on waking from the hypnotic trance
remembers nothing can be led by artifice to recollect all that he haB done.
Is his hypnotic personality annulled when this fusion of memorieB iB effected1
p2
Digitized by Google
212 .. Das Doppel-ich." [lilapplemeat.
I have said that there is no persistent plane of cleavage to which we can
point 1\8 separating two or more personalities within us. But, of course, there
are certain planes of cleavage within us which (as Hughlings-Jackson hl\8
shown) we can in imagination distinguish with fruitful results. We can con-
ceive of our nervous system 1\8 consisting of three strata, or three levels of
evolution, and we can trace in dissolutive processes the results ofthe ceaaation
of the activity of one stratum after anotht'lr.l But this is not the kind of cleav-
ago which will make a fresh personality. For that purpose the cleavage must
not be horizontal, but t() some extent at least vertical j that is to say, that
each personality must include a certain amQunt of work done by the highest
centres of all j-as well as much work done by the middle centres, and aU
the work done by the lowest centres,-as heart-action and vegotative
processes.
The lowest centres, I say, must go on working throughout every change
of personality, or the machine will stop altogether. The middle centres-
sensory and motor arrangements-may divide their activities between several
pe1'llOnalities, &8 in the hysterical cases which MeBBrs. Binet and Janet
discuBB. We ('.an, to a great extent, trace their lines of division, and we can
draw our schemes of personalities, each posseBBing such and such
sensory activities, motor activities, &c. But when we come to the
higher centres the difficulty is much greater. W'e do not know what
proportion of activities of higher centres is needful to constitute a new
chain of memory, a separate consciousneBB. And, moreover, it is by no
means clear that the centres which for our waking life are the highest are
also the highest or ruling centres for some of these secondary states. Dr. Des-
soir seems to me to discern this fact, but not fully to apprehend its bearing on
the ultimate question as to what is the deepest or original form of our Ego. He
traces, in language to which we may fully assent, the rise of our personality,
as now known, from the combination of the elementary or segmental egos of
which our .. colonial" ancestors were composed.
" If then the perfection of the animal organisation consists in this j-
that from an original multiplicity of groups the individual is developed j-we
are entitled to regard the lower nerve-centres in men as vestiges of an earlier
system of consciousness. Little of the work done in those centres now arrives
at complete c'lnsciousneBB j and thence we may infer that the efficacy of the
mechanism is synonymous with its automatism. And if herewith we compare
the fact of common experience, that every psychical activity becomes uncon-
scious in proportion as it is fully developed-·as reading passes from spelling
to the glance over whole sentences at a tinle-we shall have to consider
[normal or waking] 'consciousness' as the subjective expreBBion of the
work of acquisition which the mind is carrying on, as the accompanying
indication of an incomplete co-ordination of nerve.pathways, or, in strictly
psychological language, as the defect of habit."
Regarded either from the psychical or from the physical side, our highest
waking consciousneBB represe~ts unstable equilibria, proceBB.es maintained
with difficulty, the T'~X~vraio.. ifl"yf""'11'4 of many complex combinationa·
I See Dr. Hughlinlf8.Jackson'8 Remarb on E,'Olution and DiWllutlon of Uu:
NeN'01U By.Um, p. 12, &:c. (London: John Bate and Sons. 1888.)
Digitized by Google
SapplemeDt.] "DaB Doppel-ich." 213
As Dr. Hrighlings-Jackson has said1 : ., There is no autocratic mind
sitting at the top to receive sensstions as a sort of raw material, out
of which to manufacture ideas, &c., and then to associste these ideas.
Answering to the constitution (mainly inherited) of the anatomical
substrata of subject-consciousneBB, ideas rise up combined, in association,
&c., and coming out of subject-consciousnesa they then constitute the object-
consciousneu of the moment. • • . There are different degrees of fixity
of nervous arrangements, from those strongly organised, very automatic,
and comparatively settled and unalterable, up to those twlO making (nerve-
stuff being for the first tinte traversed by nerve-currents developed by the
more and earlier organised nervous arrangements); those flOtO making will
be, of course, least organised, least automatic, and capable of moat modifica-
tion. The order from most strongly organised to least organised is the
order from lowesttowardshighestlayersof thehighestcentres. . . . Many of
the new recently-made nervous arrangements will be evaneacent; I mean that
they will soon cease to be even the • potential ' nervous arrangements I spoke
of. I suppose that one of the uses of sleep is to sweep the higher layers of
the highest centres clean of many such nervous arrangements."
Now I maintain that the sub-conscious Self, on the other hand, does not
attain manifestation through these recent and unstable nervous arrangements.
Its emergence does not seem to depend upon its securing a larger
ahare of the highest nervous activities of the conscious self. It attains
its development-advances to the exercise of its characteristic powers
-in a different way. It advances, not by paBBing into a phase of mental
stress and friction, such 88 that which corresponds to the moat complex
waking thought, but by an apparently effortleBB intprovement in the veri-
dicalityof its characteristic hallucinatory content. It begins-not to rack its
brains for argument,,-but placidly to image forth no longer false things, but
true. And this (88 I have often aaid) I believe to hold good both for the
subject's own creative power or "geniua," and for the influences tele-
pathically transmitted to hint from other minds. So far as the creations of
genius are concerned, I can adopt Dr. Deuoir's statement.
" The new Psychology," he says (p. 37), ., has convincingly demonstrated
that in every conception o.nd every idea, an intage or a group of images must
be present. But since these images, like the original perceptions of which
they are the recrudeacence,are always endeavouring toextemalise themselvcs,
they would always eventuate in actual hallucination, did not the competition
of other memory-pictures and of new scnsstions hinder their development.
When these checks are removed,-as in sleep, the hypnotic trance, and cer-
tain pathological states,-the hallucinatory germ can unfold itself freely;
while, on the other hand, in ordinary waking thought we have to deal with a
8ucceaaion of uncomplcted hallucinations. That state which is usually taken
to be fundamental in us is in effect the suppreBBion ofour natural tendencies;
and hallucination-commonly regarded as 1\ merely morbid phenomenon-
represents, atJeast in its nascent condition, the main trunk of our psychical
existence. The fully-conscious life of the spirit seems to rest UPOll 1\ sub-
stratum of reflex action of a hallucinatory type. • . It is only when Imagina-
1 Op. ('it. pp. 9, 10, text and notl'1
Digitized by Google
214 "Das Doppel-ich." (Supplement.
tion ill comprehended as a function of the secondary Self, and Hallucination,
Inspiration,Change of Personality, are understood as projections from within
outwards, with more or le88 of sensory clothing, -manifestations, in short,
of that externaluitlg process which is always at work within us i-it is only
then, I aay, that the creative imagination of the artist is understood and
traced to its root."
With all this I concur, and I have urged elsewhere that the truest way of
regarding hallucinations is to consider them as messages addressed by a sub-
merged to an emergent stratum of the personality. These messages may be
true or false, meaningless or of weighty import, according to the stratum of
the personalityfrom which they rise. But meaaages from the sub-conscious,
of one sort or another, they are; and for that reason alone they would deserve
our moat careful analysis. Note, moreover, as all indication of the way in
which the uncOnscious Self works, that whereas hallucinations-visual
hallucinations in particular-often represent the highest creative power to
which the percipient's mind ever attains, they are developed, neverthelesa,
without his conscious effort, and as though by the mere act of releasing
somewhat that was already formed within. They come t-o us unexpected,
confusing, enigmatic ; but as with the golden figures on Achilles' shield, the
hidden Power which forged them was master of its art indeed :-
Ran BaaaaAa RUa lBlIallv& 7I'pa7l'aBfvv",.
And thus we come to the question of the relative dignity, the relative
reality of the emergent and the fundamental Self. "From the foregoing
discussions," aays Dr. Desaoir, ,r it might perhaps appear as though the
dominance of the sub-conscious indicated a higher condition of spiritual
activity. That is by no means the case. Such dominance can indeed give
facility for the highest creative production, but without itself representing
a high psychical level. It is man's original condition, no doubt, but so also
is it his most p"'imitive condition; it works in the completut manner, but
not in the manner most in harmony with Reality and the End of Life."
Now, if Genius and Ecstacy (as has been here implied) belong to the realm
of the Sub-conscious, then I aay that you must first tell us what 18 Reality,
and what uthe End of Life, before we decide whether Genius and Ecstacyare
out of harmony with these. What is undoubtedly true is that our waking-
emergent personality is that which is best suited to carry on the struggle for
existence. Itself, as I believe, the result of natural selection, it inevitably
represents that aspect of our being which can best help us to overrun the
earth. More than this we cannot aay. If, as we get deeper down, we come
on ever more definite indications of powers and tendencies within ourselves
which are 1/.ot such as natural selection could have been expected to develop,
then we may begin to wonder on 10hat it was that the terrene proce88 of
natural selection, as we have it, began at the first to exercise modifying
power. To 8uch a question no answer whatever can be given which is not in
BOme sense mystical, or rather metempirical, as dealing with hypotheses
which no experience of ours can teat. But it should be W\derstood that
there is no metaphysical, no physiological answer in possession of the field;
the competition is open, the course is clear. In the present disintegration,
as it may be called, both of the metaphysical and of the physiological con-
ception of man's being, Dr. Desaoir urges the 1088 sustained on the
Digitized by Google
8upplemant.) II Das Doppel-ich." 215
metaphysical aide. .. Many facta," he aays (p. (0), "which Philosophy is
wont to adduce as proofs of the existence of an immortal soul, IDSy be equally
well explained by the exiatence of an empirical secondary Self; and to this
Self must Occultism transfer the supersensory facultiea of man." So be it ;
to the secondary, to the submerged Self must, not decaying Occultism, but
advancing Science refer whatsoever faculties are not accounted for by what
wa call normal development, terrene andtr&ceable evolution.
But the question of origin will still remain; and it is not really a
hypothesis wilder than another if we suppose it poasible that that portion
of the cosmic energy which operatea through the organism of each one of us
was in some sense individualised before its descent into generation, and
poura the potentialitiea of larger being into the earthen vesaels which it
filla and overflows.
On points like these all that anyone can fairly claim is that the ODe
speculative opinion should be accorded as full a right of existence as the
other. And-to take leave at length of our author-there is no lack of
fairness or candour in Dr. Dessoir'a statement of opiniona not his own.
Agreeing with him as I do for the moat part, I feel in disagreement as
fully as in agreement the value, along all our range of inquiry, of so
capable and painataking a fellow-worker.
Digitized by Google
216 Dr. Jtdes JaMt 011. Hysteria and (Supplemeot.
VI.
DR. JULES JANET ON HYSTERIA AND DOUBLE
PERSONALITY.
By F. W. H. MYBBS.
" L'HylUrie et l'HypnotiMne,d'apri&la TMorie de la Double PenonnaliU," is
the title of a paper published by Dr. Jules Janet-brother of Prof.
Pierre Janet, and nephew of the well-known Prof. Paul Janet,-in the Bellt&e
&ientiM't&e, May 19th, 1888.
Though brief,the paper is remarkable from severalpoints of view. In the
.tint place, it shows by a striking example how far we are from having
exhausted the pouibilitiea of hypnotism,-even as applied to a subject who
has been for years the object of hypnotio treatment. And in the second
place, it affords a strong confirmation to the old view on whioh ElliotBon and
his group inaisted,-and which one or two writers in these Proceedings were
for some years practically alone in supporting,-that there is something in
the effect of "mesmerio pa88ea" which is speoifically different from the
effect of Braidian or other fOl"lll8 of stimulation.
Blanohe Witt- is one of the best known personalitiea-or groups of
personalities-in Paris. A hystero-epileptic of the most pronounced type,
she h88 never been able for long together to meet the streBBea of ordinary
life. She has long been an inmate of the Sal~trillre ; and some of my
readers may have seen her exhibited there, at Prof. Charcot's lectures, or
by the kindneBB of Dr. F~re or other physicians, as the type-I may
almost say the prototype-of the celebrated" three stages" of lethargy,
catalepsy, and somnambulism, of which she realised every characteristic
detail with marvellous precision. Arrived at somnambulism, her state could
be no further changed by the various means employed,-closing or opening
the eyes, rubbing the top of the head, startling with lights or sounds, &0.-
and she was led back to waking life through the stages in inverse order.
She was treated, it is need1888 to say, with great care and kindn_;
and her hysterical "crUes" were frequently averted by hypnotic suggestion.
But in spite of all the skill and experience brought to bear on her case, no
one succeeded in removing,-except for a few minutes at a time by the action
of gold, magnets, or electricity,-the various permanent .. tares" or defects
of sensibility, which signaliaed her deep-seated hysterical trouble.
In all her states she was without feeling of contact, feeling of position,
or feeling of pain. When her eyea were closed (in the waking state,) she
could not stand upright, nor close her handa completely, nor hold a heavy
object. She could not hear with the left ear, nor see colours with the left
eye, whose visual field, moreover, was greatly restricted.
Such was her condition when she came under Dr. Dumontpallier's charge
at another hospital,-the Hotel Dieu,-and was hypnotised by M. Jules Janet.
She passed as usual through the three" classical" stages. But M. Janet,-
Digitized by Google
Double Per8onality. 217
without, as I understand, any preconceived theory as to the result,-
determined to try what a prololl(r'tion of passes would etl'ect. Instead of
opening the subject's eyes in the lethargic stage,-the regular method for
inducing the cataleptic stage,- he continued to make passes, and presently
found that she passed into an absolutely inert state,-" the deep state" of
our English experiments, in which no muscular contraction could be obtained
by pressure, nor did opening of the eyes induce catalepsy. After some
futher passes the subject re-awakened into what seemed at first sight simply
a more alert somnambulism than ever before.
But on examining this new condition it was found to be no mere slight
modification of states previously obtained, but a state r8C0ll8tructed, so to
say, from top to bottom. In the first place, Blanche Witt· was now
perfectly possessed of the senses of touch.-capable of perceiving contact,
position, heat, and pain. She could now close her hands perfectly, and
compress the dynamometer with normal power. She heard perfectly with her
left ear, previously deaf, and saw normally with both eyes. It was no
longer possible to ill8pire in her allY hallucination. In one poirit alone did
she ditl'er from a normal person j namely in her excessive electivity, or
determination to attend to her hypnotiser alone, although she was .perfectly
capable of hearing and talking to other people.
In this second state, .. Blanche 2 "-as the reader will doubtless expflct-
had a full remembrance of the life of "Blanche 1," while Blanche 1 knew
nothing of Blanche 2. A further point of interest was the determination of
the true position of the .. three classical stages" in Blanche's personality.
It was found that when she was in her first or ordinary somnambulism her
memory extended over the fully-developed state of Blanche 2,-so that we
may consider the .. three classical stages" as incomplete manifestations of
Blanche 2, who had never till now been able to come fully to the front.
Furthermore,- as the reader either of Mr. Gumey's or of Prof. Pierre
Janet's experiments will expect,-it was not difficult to show that Blanche 2
really existed throughout the whole life of Blanche 1. If colours were
shown to Blanche 1 (with her right eye blinded) and she failed to distinguish
them, Blanche 2 nevertheless saw them perfectly,-with the same eye and
at the same moment,-and, when summoned, could describe what she had
seen. Or if Blanche 1 were pinched or pricked, to demonstrate her insell8i-
bility, Blanche 2 felt everything, and, when summoned, bOfr'n to complain.
It is strange to reflect for how many years the dumbly-raging Blanche 2 has
thus assisted at experiments to which Blanche 1 submitted with easy
complaisance. It reminds one of the difficulty of pleasing both personalities
at a time which is sometimes found when it is a quelltion in which state to
feed a hypnotised subject. There is an old case in the Zoist where 8 young
woman used to ill8ist so strongly in the hypnotic state that then was the time
to give her her dinner, that the kind doctors consented. But when she
awoke and saw the empty plate, she would burst into tears.
Once more, it appeared that the chloroformed condition, and in some
sense nOlmal. sleep itself, belonged to Blanche 2 rather than to Blanche 1.
Blanche 2 could remember what had happened during the chloroformic
trance, and could recount ordinary dreams of which Blanche 1 had no
knowledge.
Digitized by Google
21M Dr. Jules Janet on Hy8teria and [8uPP*uat.
On the whole, then, we may say that Blanche 2 represents-not, indeed,
the wmplete personality, for that is never represented by any state of any of
us,-but at least a pretty complete group or co-ordination of the various
elements which go to make up a normal human being. Blanche I, on the
other hand,isscantily supplied with these elements; she has only just enough
to get on with ;-namely, motility, speech, vision of one eye and hearing of
one ear. Blanche 2 adds to these vision of the other eye, hearing of the
other ear, and general and muscular sensibility. And M.•Janet urges that;
we may regard this incomplete endowment of the primary personality,
(primary here only in the sense that it is the habitual one), 88 the di1I'erentis.
of hysteria.
.. In short," he 88YS, .. every man presents two personalities, one
collscious and one incognised [he justly urges that this second person-
ality is bien pluUt itlCOIlf111l qt,'itlC<tlI.8CiIlnte] : in the normal man these are
equal, equilibrated, eACh of them complete; in the hysterio they are
unequal and disequilibrated; one of them-generally the primary-being
incomplete, while the other remains perfect. . . Let us give a form to
these two entities constituted by the two succe88ive consciousneBSes ; let us
represent them by two persons, walking one behind the other. The person
who walksin front knows himself but has 110 notion of tho person who follows
him. The person who follows knows himself-snd knows also the person
whom he 888S walking in front of him. In a normal man, these two
personages are both of them vigorous and are of equal stature ; the second
cannot manage to knock down the first, and show himself openly ; in order
to do so he must await some temporary feeblene88 of the first personage,-aa
in sleep or intoxication. Sometimes, however, as in the case of the madman,
he can abolish the first personage and substitute himself. It is then that,
proud of the exploit, he performs the impulsive actions with which we are
familiar in some cases of nervous disease."
There seems to me to be some confusion here. The second personality,
represented as being the equal of the first-de taiUe /gale-ought hardly to be
credited with performing mere mad acts if it succeeds in obtaining the
mastery over the first. This is to attempt more simplification than the
facts admit of. These actu implll8ifs must be regarded, I think, in many
cases 88 being the self-manifestation,not of any combination ofnerve-centres
(or their mental correlates) extensive enough to be the basis of a personality,
but rather of some hypertrophied group of nervous elements,-some ideepe,
existing-like a tumour-in quasi-independence of the mental organism 88 a
whole. .. In a hysteric," M. Janet continues, "the equilibrium is over-
thrown. The tWCl personages who walk in procc88ion are of very unequal
strength. The first is feeble, dwarfed, degraded; he can scarcely stand
upright ; the second is vigorous and of normal height; he can easily show
himself; in order to do so sometimes he takes advantage of the natural sleep
of the first personage and takes a stroll along the roofs,-that is spontaneous
somnambulism ;-sometimes in mid-day he confuses the feeble personage
who walks in front of him, and rolls himself on the ground in frantic
gymnastics,-that is the hysterical crisis."
Here again I must prot-est against the 8BCription of these senseless habits
to a secondary personality in the hysterical subject, which is ea: hypothui
Digitized by Google
SuppleD1eut.) DottlJle PersO'fWlity. 219
stronger and saner than the first. Why should it behavo thus wildly t
Blanche 2, whom M. Janet has been holding up as the type of a hysteric's
second personality, shows, when fully developed. no incliuation whatever to
violent pranks. She may iudeed-though M. Janet does not state this-
remember the contortions of the criae; but that does not prove that she
originated the crile any more than she originates any foolish act of the first
personality's doing. Again I say that our metaphor cannot be thus
simplified j the'criIe does not strictly form a part either of the first or of the
second personality j it is the explosion of a group of elements insuffioient to
form the basis of any stable persouality at all.
But putting aside this confusion of language into whioh, as it seems to
me, M. Janet has been led by attempting too great a simplicity of metaphor,
and trying to force all the phenomeua whioh Blanche Witt- exhibits into the
cadre of her first or of her second persouality, let us oonsider the definite
result, scientific and practical, which M. Janet has attained. He has shown
once more-as ElliotBon again and again insisted-that the mesmeriser who
wants to produoe a complete effect, must go on unweariedly with his passes j
and notassume that because one state, or several states,are readily produoible,
and constantly recur, there is therefore nothing to be attained OOyonll. And
on the practical side he has shown that no amount of hY8terical disturbance,
however prolonged and profound. need be regarded as incurable. Hysteria
ia not a lesion but a displ¥ement ; it is a withdrawal, that is to say, of
certain nervou8 energies from the plane of the primary personality j but
those energies still potentially subsist, and they can again be placed, by
proper management, under their normal control. .
M. Janet tells me that last year he kept Blanohe Witt- for months
together in her second state, with much comfort to her j and that now,
though he has ceased to attend her, he understands that her condition in the
first 8tate is much better than of old.
Another case,l treated also by M. Jules Janet, and which he has kindly
given me the opportunity of seeing, is even more remarkable in a therapeutic
aspect. It is perhaps the most marked among those very rare cases where it
can be said with confidence that death itself has been averted by a hypnotic
change of personality.
From the age of 13 the patient Marceline R. had been subject to a
miserable series of hystericsl troubles-chorea, crile8, anmsthesia, &C. In
January, 1886, the hysterical tendency took its most serious form,-of
insuperable vomiting, which became so bad that the very sight of a spoonful
of soup produced distressing Spa&1l18. Artificial means of feeding were tried.
with diminishing success, and in June, 1887. she was paralytic and so
emaciated that (in spite of the rarity of deaths from any form of hysteria) her
death from exhaustion appeared imminent.
M. Janet was theu asked to hypnotise her. Almostat once he succeeded
in inducing a somuambulic 8tate in which she could eat readily and digest
well. Her weight increased rapidly, and there was no longer any anxiety as
to a fatal reault. But the grave inconvenience remained that she could only
1 The earlier part of this case is decribed in M. Jules Janet's paper, "Un
Cas d'Hysttirie Grave," Renu de l'HrnmotiMM, May, 1889.
Digitized by Google
220 Dr. Jules Janet on HY8teria and [Supplement.
eat when hypnotised. M. Janet tried to overcome this difficulty ; for a time
he succeeded; and she left the hospital for a few months. She 8OOn,
however. returned in her old state of starvation. M. Janet now changed his
tactics. Instead of trying to enable her to eat in her first or so-called normal
state, he resolved to try to enable her to live comfortably ill her secondary
state. In this he gradually succeeded, and sent her out in October, 1888,
established in her new personality. The only inconveniences of this change
seem to be (1) that when she has been left some months without re-hypno-
tisation a tendency to hysterical mutism sets in ; and (2) that whenever she
is "a,.wakened" into her first personality she has lost (like Felida X.) all
memory of the time passed in the ,econd.
After some shorter trials, M. Janet hypnotised her November 12th,1888,
and left her in her secondary state till.January 15th,1889. He then "awoke"
her, but the vomiting at once returned, and she again applied to M. Janet for
help. He hypnotised her, and left her in her second state till March 31st. Be
then again .. awoke" her, with the same result. Again he hypnotised her i
and when he took me to see her on August 10th,she had been in the hypnotic
state continuously for three months and ten days ;--during which time she
had successfully passed a written examination for the office of hospital nurse,
which she had failed to pass in her normal state.
When we saw her,August 10th,she was normal in appearance and manner,
except for a certain shortneas of breath, or difficulty of speaking, which M.
Janet explained as likely to develop into hysterical mutism, if hypnotisation
were not renewed. She was fairly well nourished, and her expreasion was
open and contented.
M. Janet resolved not merely to re·hypnotise her, but to wake her and
leave her for a time ill her first state, in order to see whether the .dysphagia
had disappeared,-and at the same time to observe whether the 1088 of
recollection of the events of the secondary state was really complete. Ho
woke her-in the old Elliotsonianfashion-by "reverse passes." Her change
of expression was very noticeable. The look of easy content was replaced by
a pained, anxious air. Her attention was at once arrested by some masons at
work in the courtyard,-who apparently had pulled down a wall, or made
some similar change, since her last wakening. Asked what she was looking
at, she said in a low, timid voice, .. I had not observed the alterations."
Asked what day of the week it was, she &lid "Sunday" i-and in fact March
31st was a Sunday. "What day of the month 1" .. March 31st. " "How,
then, is this oleander in the courtyard in flower 1" "0, sir," she said,
.. those flowers are only paper." "Feel them!" She felt them timidly,
and said nothing more. "What had you for breakfast this morning 1" .. I
tried to take some milk." This again referred to March 31st i-on
August 10th, she had breakfasted on ordinary solid food. "Drink a
little now." She attempted, but spasms at once began, and she could not
retain it. We th~n left her i but Prof. Pierre Janet (who was also present,)
tells me that during the two or three days for which she was left in her
first state the alarming vomiting continued and she began to spit blood.
" My brother was Bent for, and determined to re-hypnotise her. She was
calmed as if by enchantment, and is now in excellent condition. During her
two •waking, days she made a number of serious. blunders not only as regards
Digitized by Goo~
Sapplement.J Double Per8O'nality. 221
her mother, but with lodgers in the house. Her conduct absolutely proved
a complete forgetfuIneu of the preceding months. After making inquiries
from the various persons who saw her, my brother told me that he could
retain no doubt as to her forgetfulneu." M. Jules Janet adds that since she
has been replaced in the 8econd condition the 1088 of flesh has been rapidly
repaired, and she is a8"in comfortable.
The future of this case will be interesting to watch. Will the secondary
personality fade away &g!'in, and leave her exposed to the dangerous 8uft'erings
from which ahe has now been for nearly a year delivered 1 Or will 8he, like
FtSlida X ,thrive 011 her radical reconstruction, and live out her natural life-
whose natural life1-in her secondary condition, in peace and quietneu1 And
if 80, are there any of the re8t of us who might be made much better by
being made quite di1l'erent 1
Digitized by Google
222 Profes8or LUgeoia on Suggestion and
VII.
PROFESSOR LIEGEOIS ON SUGGESTION AND SOM.NAM-
BULISM IN RELATION TO JURISPRUDENCE.l
By WALTBR LBAP.
Five years ago,in April, 1884,Profeuor Liegeois read before the Academie
des Sciences Morales et Politiques a memoir on "La Suggestion Hypnotique
dans ses Rapports avec Ie Droit Civil et Ie Droit Criminel." The experiments
there recounted, and the extraordinary conclusions to which they obviously
led, created a sensation in France; they were introduced to English readers
by Mr. F. W. H. Myers in an article in the FortuighUy RevietO for November,
1885, entitled Human Per,ouality, which attracted hardly le88 attention.
Many will remember the shock with which they first read of the simulated
crimes which M. Liegeois could by a word induce his subjects to
commit. A daughter fired point-blank at her mother's breast a
revolver which she believed to be loaded; a young man dis-
solved in water a powder which he Wlloll told Wlloll arsenic, and
gave it to his aUllt to drink. When questioned as to his act, he showed the
most complete ignorance of what he had done. Hardly le88 astonishing and
disquieting Wlloll the development given to the already known facts of posL-
hypnotic suggestion. Hallucinations had been produced which worked
themselves out in action at a distance of days, weeks and even months, at
the precise place and hour which it pleased the hypnotiser to suggest. It
appeared imp088ible to sell limits to the power po88e88ed by the hypnotiser
over the future lioii well lioii the present, over the character lioii well lioii the
momentsry acts, of a really lluaceptible subject.
Five years have expanded this pregnant memoir into a bulky but
eminently readable volume of more than 700 pages. But they have only
confirmed and extended the conclusions therein arrived at. The criticisms
to which he baa been exposed in France are examined by Profe880r Liegeois,
and in our opinion are triumphantly refuted. Experiments in England,
Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, Austria and Germany have combined to
elltablish the views of the Nancy school against the great names of t.he
Salpfltriilre.
The additions which the treatise baa received are not, however, wholly
or even mainly polemical. It opens with an excellent review, which seems
complete so far lioii France is concemed, of t.he past history of the suggestion-
theory; that work done in other countries should be to a great extent
ignored, is only what one hlloll leamt to expect. But with these limitations
it will be found an exceIIeht introduction to the study of hypnotism in
general. The chapter on processes of hypnotisation is thoroughly practical.
The therapeutic aspects of the question, Profeasor Liegeois, lioii a lawyer,
1 De laSugge6tion tt du SomnambuliMM dam leur. Rapport. awe lG Jurilprudmce d
lG M6decineLigale. Par Julu LUgtlOu, Pro/u_rdlGFtuulte de Droit de Naflll"l&'f9.
Digitized by Google
Supplemeat.J Somnambulism in Relat'wn to Jurisprudence. 223
leaves to his medical colleagues, Drs. Liebeault, Bernheim and Beaunis, with
the exception of one chapter, where he relates at length some extraordinary
experiments on vesication by suggestion, carried out by Focachon, the
production of stigmata by MM. Bourru and Burot, and the use of hypnotic
anresthesia in surgery. It is with Chapter xii. that he begins the practical
part of his subject, the influence which the new view of suggestion may have
upon jurisprudence.
The facility which suggestion may give for the commission with absolute
impunity of the most terrible crimes is so obvious that one might at first be
almost tempted to wish that such knowledge had never been published
to mankind. But, apart from the question of pure science, it will be enough
that the reader should glance through the I~al cases collected by Liegeois to
S88 that such a wish is wrong. He m:\kes it clear enough that such crimes
have already been sporadically comUlitted, and that miscarriages of juatice
have taken place, which a mere state of ignorance would certainly bring
about again ill the future. It is eB8ential in the interests of the innocent
victims themselvea that we ahould know all that we can learn, in order to
save them from themaelves. One great step haa already beell made when
we find that the most auggeatible are precisely thoae who can best )Je helped,
by the suggestion that no one Mn have any influence over them in future
but a single hypnotiaer, who is, of course, to be sought in a trustworthy
p8rsoD. M. Liegeois goes on to consider the ateps to be taken when it is sus-
pected that a crime baa been committed by an innocent person in a state of
suggested somnambulism. His method is ingenious, but we are afraid de-
lusive. The first thing, he says, is to appoillt a commission of doctors to
decide whether the person accused is suggestible. This being ascer-
tained, we have to endeavour to circumvent the suggestion given, ea: hypo-
thui, by the real criminal; "You will entirely forget that I have given you
this suggestion ; you will in no case be able to denounce me, however much
you may wish to do so." Liegeois haa made experiments which show that
such a device may be succeufully turned. He gave one of his subjects the
suggestion that she had committed a murder, but could lIot denounce him
aa the real author of the crime. Dr. Liebeault then hypnotised herand gave
her tile suggestion that when she saw "the author of the criminal suggestion,
whoever he might be," ahe would fall aaleep and perform a preconcerted
aeries of acts with regard to him which would not be naturally BB80Ciated
with the idea of denouncing him. When Dr. Liegeoia enters the room she
goes through this series of acts, and would thua ill a real case have identified
him aa the author of the crime-whether clearly enough to satisfy a jury
remains to be aeen. The experiment waa succeB8fully repeated on another
aubject, and Dr. Liegeois concludes: "It is p0B8ible to give a hypnotic
subject any suggestions relative to the author,whoever he be, of the criminal
impulse, which are not expreBBly and directly contrary to the amnesia which
he baa called forth. The real criminal will thus fall into the hands of
justice, becauae it will have been imp0B8ible for him to foreaee and remove
all dangers by a suggestion of amneaia, however large and comprehensive."
But we must aak Dr. Liegeois one question, which he aeemB to have for-
gotten: Suppoae the real criminal has after suggesting the supposed amnesia
added" No one in future can hypnotise you or give you auggestions but
Digitized by Google
224 [Supplement.
myself" j how would he then begin his investigation 1 His commission of
doctors would report at the outset that the 08tensible criminal was not
susceptible to suggestion, and what would be called" justice" must take its
course.
We may end by calling attention to the curious experiments in negative
hallucination described on pp. 701-711. This particular development is, we
think, quite new. M. Li~beault begins by giving his subject, Camille S.,
the negative hallucination that she is unable either to see or to hear M.
Li~geois. She isawakened, and is absolutely unconscious of his presence, even
to the extent of showing no sign of pain when he pricks her with a pin,'
though she feels at once if anyone else does so. He speaks to her in his
own name, but she takes no notice. Now comes the strange part. .. I now
proceed impersonally, speaking not in my own name but as though
there were an inner voice addreBBing her from her own consciousne8ll.
Then 80mnambulic automatism appears as complete in this novel and
unknown form as in any of the shapes with which wu are already familiar."
.. I say to her aloud, •Camille is thirsty j she will go to the kitchen for
a glass of water, which she will bring in and put upon this table.' She seems
to have heard nothing, but, at the end of a few millutes, she does what has
been indicated, and that with the lively and impetuous manner 80 often
noticed in somllambules. She is asked why she has brought in the glaSB of
water which she bas jus~ placed on the table. •What do you mean 1I have
not stilTed. 'I'here is no gl&88.· 1 then say, •Camille sees the glaBB, but it is
not water, as they would have her believe. It is a glass of very good wine j
she will drink it, and it will do her good.' She executes at once the order
given her, alld bas immediately forgotten all about it."
M. Li~geois goes on to give an account of a conversation between
Camille and the other persons present, in which she repeats mechanically &8
her own every answer to their questions with which he himself prompts her.
Finally, by a suggestion given in his own name he wakes her up-orrather,
for she is already awake except. as regards hinlself, he abolishes the
negative hallucination, and she has completely forgotten all that has
pasaed.
The conclusion which M. Li~geois draws is strikingly in harmony with
views which have been developed at length in these pages by Mr.
Myers. .. This shows that during a negative hallucination the sub-
ject sees that which he seems not to see, and hears that which he
seems not to hear. There are ill him two personalities j an unconscious Ego
which sees and hears, and a conscious Ego which neither BeeS nor hears, but
to which suggestions can be made, passing, if I may so expreBB my.elf,
through the challnel of the first Ego. This duplication of personality is no
more surprising than that which hlUl been established by Dr. Azam in the
calle of Felida X.," and one or two similar cases. The experiment is
evidently crucial as proving that the phenomena of negative hallucination
are purely psychical, nor physical, as MM. Binet and F~re would have it.
The further conclusions which might be deduced are more than can be COD-
sidered here. Suffice it to say that no student of hypnotism can afford to
neglect this important work.
Digitized by Google
Supplement. Two Books on Hypnotiam. 225
VIII.
TWO BOOKS ON HYPNOTISM.
By WALTHR LBAF.
Dw HypnotismtuJ, seine Bedeutung und sei1~ Handlw.1nmg, in kunge-
falilUr DarllteUung. Von DR. AUGUST FOBEL. Stut.tgart, 1889.
Die Suggution8thempie tmd ihre Tec1mik. Von DR. ED. BAIERLACHBlt.
Stuttgart, 1889.
These two short treatises have substantially the same object; that of
assisting medical men in the employment of hypnotism in ordinary practice.
They take the same view, both authors being-one may almost say "of
course "-thorough-going adherents of the Nancy school. Dr. Baierlacher
is a practising physician in Nuremberg; Dr. Forel, as it is hardly necessary
to remind a student of the subject, is the director of the important cantonal
lunatic asylum at Zurich. Neither of them aims at making any addition to
the theory of the subject, but both supply interesting evidence from their
own experience.
To take the common matter first, it will be noticed that both, like
their Nancy teachers, employ suggestion alone for producing the hypnotic
sleep, without any passes or prolonged gazing at bright objects. Both
recommend Bernheim's modus opefiUldi. "You place the patient in an arm-
chair, and make him look for a few seconds up to one or two minutes into
your eyes, and meanwhile tell him in a loud and confident but monotonous
tone that he is going on famously, that his eyes are already swimming, the
lids are heavy, that he feels a pleasant warmth in legs and arms. Then you
make him look at the thumb and first finger of your left hand, which you
gradually lower, so that the eyelids may follow. If the eyes now close of
thelll8elves the game is won. If not, you say, •Shut your eyes,' " and proceed
with suggestions of catalepsy, &c., following up those which appear to be
accepted. The success which attends this method is rather surprising in com-
parison with English experience. Baierlacher advises that the Bitting should
be interrupted and a further trial postponed for a time, if sleep, or at least
some sign of influence, is not produced in half a minute, or at most a minute.
He has attempted hypnotism in 146 cases, and failed in only 25. Dr. Forel's
percentage of success is still higher ; of the last 105 persons whom he has
attempted to hypnotise only 11 were uninfluenced ; a figure which shows a
decided improvement on the 80 per cent. who should, according to Bernheim,
prove susceptible, and seems to dispose of the often-asserted view that the
Latin races are easier to influence than the Teutonic. Indeed, Forel lays it
down as a principle that •• every mentally healthy man is naturally hypno-
tisable ; it is only certain transitory psychical conditions which can prevent
hypnosis." It is unfortunate, as he remarks, that his own position gives him
little opportunity of wide experiments with the mentally healthy. With his
insane patients he has had little encouragement. One of them, Mrs. X.,
Q
Digitized by Google
226 rtwo Books on Hypnotism. (Supplement.
believed herself to be Mrs. Y. "I was able to hypnotise her, and to produce
by suggestion sleep, appetite, and even post-hypnotic hallucinations. But
when I told her with all pOBSible emphasis during hypnosis that she now knew
herself to be Mrs. X. and not Mrs. Y., that her id\l8 WM only an illusion at
which she could now laugh, she kept un shaking her head so long as I
continued my 888ertions, in order to show me that she did not accept the
suggestion." "In suggestion," he adds, " one uses the brain of the subject
as a machine. In the case of the insane the machine is out of gear and will
not work."
In spite, however, of his primary occupation with these far from hopeful
materials, Dr. Forel has collected a large amount of interesting evidence. We
may quote one or two of his more important experiments. Here is a curioU8
case of post-hypnotic hallucination.
" I told Miss Z. while hypnotised that she would on awaking find two
violets in the bosom of her dreBS, both natural and pretty, and that she was
to give me the prettier. At the same time I put one real violet into her
dreBS. When she woke she saw two violets ; one was brighter and prettier,
she said, and she gave me the corner of her white handkerchief, keeping the
real violet herself. I now asked if she thought that both violets were real,
or if one of them was not one of those fugitive presents which she had on
previous occasions received at my hands. She replied that the brighter
violet was not real, bPCaU8e it looked so flattened upon the handkerchief. I
now renewed the experiment, suggesting three real violets, equally dark,
sweet-smelling, not flattened out, but tangible, with stalks and leaves ; but
I gave her only one real f!.ower. This time MiBB Z. was completely deceived,
and quite unable to tell me whether one, two, or all three violets were real
or suggested. She thought that all were real this time, while at the very
moment she was holding in one hand a f!.ower, in the other nothing but air.
It is clear,therefore,that when the suggestion is made to all the senses atonce
it is completer."
The following very important case, from the practical point of view, is
slightly abbreviated from Dr. Fore!'s account. "An old drunkard of 70
years of age, after twice attempting to cut his throat, had been kept in my
asylum from 1879 to 1887 as a hopeleBS sot. He took every opportunity of
drinking himself into a state of dangerous hallucination. At the same time
he led all the plots against my endeavours to refonn the drunkards in the
establishment, and, though not generally malicioU8, incited the patients
against the Temperance Society. He could not be allowed the least freedom
without U8ing it to get drunk.
" I had long given him up, but in 1887 tried to hypnotise him. He
proved very suggestible, and in a few sittings he was brought into a surpris-
ingly serious state of mind. His plots ceased as though by magic, and after a
time he himself asked that the small quantity of wine which I had aiIowed
him as a hopele81 case might be cut oft'.
I I The patient soon became one of the heartiest abstainers in the
institution. I long hesitated to allow him any liberty, but finally did so in
the summer of 1888. His freedom, though he was always allowed some
pocket money, was never abused. He kept absolutely true to abstinence,
became, by suggestion, a member of the Temperance Society, of which he
Digitized by Google
Supplement.J Two Books on B yp1Wtisrn. 227
remains an active adherent, and on his trips to town drank nothing but
water, coffee, or the like. His susceptibility to alcohol was such that it
would have been impoBBible for him ever to drink without detection. . .
In the course of the last nine months he has been only occasionally hypno-
tised for the purposes of demonstration, but requires no further anti-alcoholic
suggestions."
Dr. Forel's. attitude towards the developments which have formed the
chiefstudy of the Society for Psychical Research is one of reserve. He says:
" A number of apparently supernatural phenomena are brought up again
and again by· trustworthy and honourable persons, which would seem to
support a theory such as that of Mesmer. I refer to so-called thought-
tranlference or s1Iggestion me1dale, clairvoyance, so-called presentiments and
premonitions.
.. A remarkable book in this point of view is Phant<umB of the Limng.
• • • No fewer than 600 observations on visions, dreams, presentiments,
&c., are collected. E.mct information is supplied as to the trustworthineBB
of the evidence, and only clear statements of credible persons are admitted."
He then refers briefly to M. Richet's and our own results in thought-trans-
ference, and concludes: "It is exceBBively difficult in all these experiments,
apart from chance and cheating, to exclude the self-deception of the subject,
and in the last resort, of the hypnotiser himself, and above all to be sure
of the absence of llight unconscious suggestion and auto-Iuggestion. These
results must therefore be taken with the greatest caution." This is an
utterance with which we can hardly quarrel.
To turn back briefly to Dr. Baierlacher's book, the chiefinterest of which
consists in a aelection of cases from his own practice. The most Itriking of
these is perhaps the first-a case of cancer of the stomach where he claims to
have succeeded in entirely relieving pain during the last two months of life,
for periods varying from a few hours up to (apparently) t·wo days or more,
obtaining natural Bleep, which up to the time of his first attempt was only
imperfectly induced by one to two eg. of morphia. At the same time he
facilitated the taking of food by luggestions to the perverted appetite. The
remaining C&88B are of a more familiar type-chiefly neuralgia and chorea.
Dr. Baierlacher has the courage to mention at the end more than a dozen cases
of complete or partial failure, a practice which deserves much commendation
now that cure by suggestion is beginning to afford matter for aensational
newlpaper articles.
Digitized by Google
iaiti by o Ie
o
