{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roxie_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Roxie J NDE 3837","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roxie J NDE 3837  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roxie J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1809 Roxie J NDE 3837  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was rear-ended and confused, seeing my car drifting toward the stopped car in front of me when my foot was completely on the brake and I had been fully stopped just seconds prior. I felt as though I was spinning as I bumped the car in front of me. Then looking ahead, I saw them. Two semi's coming at me full force, I could hear the jake brakes; they were about fifty feet from me, one in each lane. I knew I was going to die in the next few moments. I was fully okay with this revelation.

Then my world stopped. I saw a bright flash of light brighter than the sun, there was complete silence. Diamonds were in the light shining and falling all around me. I was spinning, flying, floating. It was a warm and pleasant feeling.

I came to and realized my car was hanging off the side of an overpass, the airbag was deployed and I was cut by the glass of the windows. I was okay. My head hurt from hitting it.

My car was on fire, and I couldn't get out of the door be my car was leaning sideways. A man who was about five feet four inches and 140 lbs came running to my side. He had a cleanly trimmed beard, a soft voice and strong hands. He lifted me out of the window as though I were a child and carried me away from the fire. He sat me down and said I would be all right now. Everything was going to be okay. He reminded me of my grandfather in a strange way. One I cannot describe. When the firemen and police arrived, the man disappeared and I have never seen him since. There is no account of this man, no one saw him, and I don't even know if he was real.

But to me he was very real. He pulled me from a burning wreckage, he saved my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 29, 2008'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was heading home for Spring break, the weather was getting bad. I was rear-ended, hit the car in front of me, spun out, and was hit head on by a loaded fuel eighteen-wheeler. The driver said he was traveling at approximately sixty-five mph upon impact. I was driving a Ford Focus. Both vehicles were totaled, the truck driver suffered a broken arm, I suffered aches and pains of the trauma as well as a head trauma that left me unconscious for minutes perhaps.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Billy

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right after I was rear ended when I saw the two eighteen-wheelers coming straight at me, I was fully aware that I was going to be hit by them. I knew my car wouldn't survive it and I believed I wouldn't either. I gave my life up right then, and I felt peace in my heart when they hit me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to be speeding away and slowing down at the same exact time. Which makes no sense.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was bright and shining full of light. Everything slowed down that I saw but my thoughts sped up simultaneously.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The last thing I heard was the jake brakes and then there was utter silence. My mind raced through the people I love, and then embraced death. I didn't hear anything until the man came and asked me if I was alright.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was a bright light in front of me and it was producing heat, and the diamonds were falling out of the sky. I don't know that I passed through a tunnel but I was getting into brighter and brighter lights.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Someone who pulled me out of my car.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was extremely white, extremely bright, so bright it distorted all else and made everything else fade into the background. All I could see was the light and the diamonds.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt love, I felt happiness, I felt comfort, I felt peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I thought about my family and how they would miss me. I thought of my fiancée and I hoped he would move on after me and find peace. I felt his overwhelming love.  Because of this experience we wed fifteen months ahead of schedule, it caused an overwhelming desire in us to begin our life together, not knowing what the future holds or when it might be over.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Non- denominational Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I felt as though life was a special gift and should be appreciated more than it is.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I got married much sooner, we feel much closer and are more cherishing of time together.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I cannot be sure of what happened completely, it was such a confusion and peaceful feeling.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of peace and understanding to the meaning of life. Love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The same day as the accident. They believed me, cried with me, and embraced me. My family treated life differently. We enjoy it more and respect it more.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roxie_j_nde.html