{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rosemary_nde.html","mytitle":"Rosemary J NDE 37","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rosemary J NDE 37  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Rosemary J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						79  Rosemary J NDE  37  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was 12 years old when I came down with a case of what I now know was spinal meningitis.  I remember one afternoon I had an unusually tormenting headache that wouldn't go away.  By the evening, I had a fever that exceeded 101 degrees. The next day I was admitted to the hospital.  I was given a series of tests but nothing seemed to help.


I had been kept in a room that seemed icy cold.  When a person has a fever, it's not uncommon for them to get chills.  Nonetheless, the air conditioning made things worse.  At first, I could tolerate it because I was in and out of consciousness but after a week had passed, I began to feel desperate to become warm again.  The air conditioner wasn't keeping my fever down anyway.  They were just waiting for me to die.


I got the idea that if I covered up with my terry cloth robe so I could get warm.  It worked.  But something else happened too.  I began to fall asleep, or so I thought.  My eyes were closed, I could hear everything around me but I felt myself slowly drifting away.  I could hear my surroundings less, and less, and less until I couldn't hear them anymore at all...period.  I was too young to realize that I was killing myself with the terry cloth robe.  It felt too good and thinking that it would immediately spike my temperature was the last thing on my mind.  However, I was aware that my spirit was departing from my body.  Somehow, I couldn't link the separation with death.


In an instant, I was in another place.  Total darkness.  I was on a path and without anyone telling me, I knew the way to where I was going.  I was all alone yet eager to get to the place at the end of the road.  I began walking briskly.  As I got about 3 inches away from my final destination, I was standing before a window that was as big as a theater screen except, it led to another world that looked like earth must have looked in the Garden of Eden.  I stood at the point where the path ended and the 'window' began.  I peeked around to see if I could see other children but I couldn't find any.  I stared at the rolling hills that had perfectly cut green grass--greener than any grass I've ever seen here on earth.  I wanted to roll up and down the hills but that meant I had to step inside the 'window'.  I was afraid that there were other children hiding inside the 'window' and that they would jump out to surprise me and scare me.  In order to get to the hills, I also would have to cross a shallow stream of crystal clear water.  That didn't bother me though.  Somehow, I knew that this was truly a place of paradise.


Eventually, I lifted a foot to step in, and then put it back down.  I repeated this kind of movement repeatedly.  To my surprise, this man stepped out from behind me and stood in front of the window and without an introduction, I somehow knew who he was and realized that he had been following me all along.  He said 'Come on, you can come if you want to, but once you come, you can't go back.'


When he started talking to me, a burst of peaceful energy shot thru me with every word he spoke. During the one sentence he spoke, by the time he had gotten the second word out, I had fallen to the ground limp and was paralyzed.  I remember thinking that if he keeps talking he's going to kill me when in fact, I was already dead--it just hadn't truly registered yet.  I knew where I was, and that I had left my body, but I thought I was still in control of going back when I wanted.  I had planned to play on the hills, look around, then go back and tell it.


When this person gave me an ultimatum, I started thinking about how sad my mom and my sister would be.  I didn't want them to be sad.  He heard my thoughts.  That's how we communicated.  When he spoke, I heard him mentally and if I thought something, he'd respond to my thought.


The thought of my mom and sister evidently meant the answer 'no' to him and I was immediately sent back just the way I came.  Slowly I drifted backwards.  I could hear my surroundings gradually become louder until I was totally back in my body.


However, there was one problem, I was as stiff as a board and could not move.  I obviously had been gone longer that I should have been because my body was not functioning.  My legs, my whole body hurt like someone had a million pins sticking in my body.  My legs hurt the worst as my blood began to flow again.


As I got older, I found out that your blood begins to thicken after you die.  I know that this is why I felt such intense pain in my body.  It was like my blood was frozen and was being defrosted.


I laid there and cried until I could move my arms.  The phone rang.  It was my mother.  My arms were the first thing that I could move.  I pulled over to the right side of the bed with my left arm, the same way a person who is paralyzed from the waist down would.  My mom asked me why I was crying and I told her my legs hurt.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1983

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I had spinal meningitis that was not responding to any form of medication.  As a last resort, I was kept in very cold air conditioned room and was not allowed any covering in an attempt to keep my fever from rising.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt better and had a lot of energy.  Separate from my body, I felt totally healed.  I looked exactly like I did before the separation took place.  The only thing different was that I had unnatural energy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was extremely conscious during the entire episode.  I was alert enough to communicate when spoken to

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   When I came back, it was obvious that I had been gone from my body.  I could literally tell that my body was struggling to recover and that certain amount of time had taken place.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No unusual sounds or noises.  On the path there was total silence.  Not even the sound of the wind.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     The pathway was more like a path instead of a tunnel.  I couldn't see beyond my hand but I knew that I wasn't enclosed in a tunnel.  I felt like I was in an open field but with no wind.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A man came from behind me.  He was Jesus Christ of Nazareth.  I knew Him without and introduction.  I instantly knew who He was.  He gave me an option of coming over or going back...if I wanted to.  It was like a telepathic conversation.  There were no secret thoughts.  If I thought something, not only heard it, but responded to it.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Instead of just light, I saw a new world that had daylight, grass, hills, water, flowers, clouds, and a sky just like earth except everything looked brand new.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happy, free, and eager to look and roam.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain     I remember that there was a distinct boundary between the path and the window.  It was very noticeable.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Sadness that I couldn't go and visit.  I wanted to see what it was like to play over there and realized that if I went, I would no longer have the option of returning to earth.  The feeling of infinity was depressing.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I had a better understanding, as a child, of the difference between the Holy Trinity.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It's hard to explain to people that have never had the experience.  They can't grasp the concept of what I'm saying.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I had the gift of discerning and knowledge already but I was keener afterwards.  I also have a sensitivity to the spirit world.  I can see and feel when a presence is around.  I also can tell when a person has any type of spirit guide living inside them.  I find out many things about people I love that I don't want to know.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was seeing the opening to the new world and the saddest was learning that my plans of visiting then leaving at my will were revoked.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Shock is what they usually feel.  I can see that they struggle to comprehend what I'm saying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Nothing else.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rosemary_nde.html