{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ross_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ross D Probable NDE 31783","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ross D Probable NDE 31783  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ross D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2384 Ross D Probable NDE 31783  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in hospital with osteomyelitis in my hip and very ill.  I had the feeling that I was dying when the bed started spinning and I was holding on as hard as I could. I tried to reach for the alarm to notify the nurse, but the next thing I knew I was flying through space at a terrifying speed. It seemed to go on for ages. There was a lot of other stuff to see on the way but it is a bit hazy now after all these years. Anyway, I turned up at this really bright bush garden type of place and I hadn't felt that good in my life before or since. Next thing my granddad turns up and told me I had to go back I said no way in the world am I going back there, you've got to be joking then two other blokes turn up and they had a sort of talk about it (they weren't talking it was like mental telepathy, you only had to think it).  Anyway, they kept hassling me to go back. In the end, they said there is something you have to do but they wouldn't tell me what that was. I think they tricked me because as soon as I thought about going back I was back.  Since then, I've had no worries about dying.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  approx 26/8/1970

  NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Moderate sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was surreal and hard to explain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     To the hospital then flying through the tunnel then at the really bright place that had no glare

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Concerned for my welfare

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was told I had to do something, but not what it was

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    None

What is your religion now?       None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know there is no god and not to be afraid of death  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I realize that when I die there is something else happening  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst part was the trip there, and the best part was being there

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother about twenty years later

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I've had lucid dreams but this was different it was real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes It has been 38 year since then.   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ross_d_probable_nde.html