{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rosemarie_w_nde.html","mytitle":"RoseMarie W NDE 2968","mylang":"de"}
          	        RoseMarie W NDE 2968  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					RoseMarie W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1052  RoseMarie W NDE  2968  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was in bed at night. The property across the road from my home was being burned to get rid of the underbrush. The smoke seeped into my home and cause me to have more difficulty with my breathing. After going to sleep, I was wide awake. I knew that I was not breathing. I tried to take in some air but it felt as if a large block of cement was on my chest. I was not afraid and I understood what was happening. I knew that I was leaving my body. I never saw a tunnel but I was going backwards from what I perceived to be a place of division. On the other side, I was alive and on this side, I was not breathing. I was moving slowly at first and started gaining speed away from the place of division. It was almost like a surface when you're under water. It's hard to describe exactly what it was like. I was totally aware of what was happening and there was absolutely no fear. My mind and thoughts were moving as fast as lightening. Everything was like crystal. I understood everything and again there was absolutely no fear. I was aware that I was not breathing and I tried to take in some air. I was able to get in a little air and the backward movement slowed down. Then I just made the decision that it was too hard and I stopped breathing again. The backward movement from that surface really started to speed up. I knew that I wouldn't be able to make it back so I started breathing with great effort and the backward motion slowed down. That's all I remember.

When I awoke the next day, I was trembling. I called my doctor who wanted to put me in the hospital and I refused to go. I was tired of hospitals. This was on a Friday morning. After going back and forth with the doctor's office over the weekend, I finally went into the hospital on Monday. They wanted to put me back on the respirator, which I refused. They did put me in recovery instead of the intensive care unit because I could be watched more closely there. They told me on Monday that I was trying to die on them. I told them that they should have been at my house last Thursday night/Friday morning.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'November, 1977'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Other I had myasthenia gravis with great difficulty breathing.    The woods across the road from my home was being burned and that precipitated a mg crisis.  Because of the myasthenia gravis my blood oxygen level was always low. I had great difficulty breathing. At this time, I quit breathing all together.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was moving backward away from the surface.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was moving backward away from the surface.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     There was no time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't remember different colors. I really can't tell what color everything was or the other things you're asking. I do know that it was very, very clear. There are no words to describe what it was like.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember any sounds. I didn't or couldn't speak. I could think very quickly.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It wasn't a tunnel. There was a place that I can only describe as a 'surface' that on one side of that place, you were in your body and alive and on this other side, you were leaving your body and not breathing. I was going backward as if I was going away from that place of separation. It was like you're in water and you're going deeper away from the surface but doing it backwards.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Not fear. Peace. Contentment. Everything was okay.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   There is no fear in death. I didn't see anyone or anything. No one told me anything nor was any special knowledge imparted to me other than there is no fear in death.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to describe what I experienced.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was very significant to me. There was no particular part.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know what happened because I lived it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't understand exactly what you are asking. Now, after many years, the experience is still very real to me. Today, I don't know if my brain was shutting down from lack of oxygen that caused this experience. Sometimes I wonder exactly what did happen that night. I wonder if it was some type of chemical reaction in my body at the point of death. I know it did happen. There is no doubt about that. I did, at the time when all this was happening to me, have seizures from cerebral hypoxia many times. Sometimes one or two times a day. So I knew what it was like to go into convulsions from lack of oxygen. When this happened, there was no seizure just this experience. I no longer have Myasthenia Gravis.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   It never happened again.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rosemarie_w_nde.html