{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roxanne_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Roxanne S NDE 828","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roxanne S NDE 828  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roxanne S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						326  Roxanne S NDE  828  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I watched the little girl's body from above, as if in the tree. Then I was transported to a wondrous landscape where all my feelings and events of my life happened at once. I wrote a book about it, 'The Wave of Light', to try to describe it all, but the most recent thing I wrote is:


Here


on a visit


in particle state


life unfolds


in time and space


Eternity


glimpsed in dreams


quiet moments


and bliss


Home we go


to wave state


time and space


mere concepts


of these particles

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 23, 1958

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Hit by car, unconscious for three days in hospital, suffered from concussion and pain (broken arm) for about a year.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Watched the little girl's body (mine) in the street and a woman getting out of a car, screaming (her car had hit me). Was very detached from the scene.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Varied.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Understood that our perception of time and space...

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Beautiful music coming from everywhere and everything.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Total darkness into total light.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Being who first appeared as unconditional loving unisex being became my deceased grandfather as I moved into the experience.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Seems that everything was made of light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Castles and flowers made of clouds, emotions and ethereal substance of some kind.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Our perception of time and space is limited by our physical existence - that existence is enhanced when the body is left behind, but we still do not see it all - can't from this perspective but will when we return to all that is...

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw that everything I felt, say, and do has an impact on everything.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Since I 'know' that linear time is not valid, it sometimes seems (during meditation or sometimes when I'm least expecting it) that all is happening at once.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Saw my younger brother on Earth and understood how much he needed me in his life.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Many over the years, last one a month ago where, in a dreamlike meditative state I saw all events of all that was, is and ever will be coming together into one point of light - emotions to geometric forms all merging into a pinpoint very clearly and I said out loud 'I get it' and came back into consciousness. Now very hard to describe but this is the best I can do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best, seeing that everything is connected.  Worst, coming back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Countless conversations about life, nature of being, NDEs, quantum mechanics, everything!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Death of my grandmother where she took me to similar 'landscape' (1974). Three LSD experiences similar but not as intense (1976, 1981, 1997) After major operation (1991) was visited by a being of light that told me I would be fine.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Second NDE when I nearly drowned at seventeen years old in Newport Beach, California.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Thank you! It's good to be reminded of all of this. In 1997, after birth of my first grandchild, I focused hard on moving my body from Oregon to Colorado and related physical day-to-day stuff.  Numerous deep experiences in the past year have re-immersed me in all of this too. Guess you could say I'm having my cake and eating it too right now.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roxanne_s_nde.html