{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rosa_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Rosa D NDE 5104","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rosa D NDE 5104  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rosa D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2699 Rosa D NDE 5104  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was admitted for surgery on an ascending appendicitis, which means the appendix was lodged between the kidneys and the liver, and was difficult to see on a scan. The operation was scheduled to last forty-five minutes, but it turned out to be three and half hours. When they put me to sleep, I came out of my body and floated towards the corner of the ceiling of the operating theatre. I could see the doctors and watch myself being operated on. I noticed something was happening - they were flustered, particularly the anesthetist. Then I saw the room as a glass box, and I could see my relatives outside. When I returned to where my body was, I saw my maternal grandfather to my left (he had died three years before my birth), and to my right was my godfather (who died when I was eight years old). They took me by my hands. Around them was a very beautiful blue light and I felt warmth in their hands. Then, above my head, there appeared a tunnel. Many beings were there, and I felt their happiness on seeing me. My grandfather and my godfather told me I must be strong, as it was not yet my time, and I couldn't join them. I recall that my senses were acute, I could hear better than ever. There was a peace, which cannot be described - and my desire to remain there was immense. The next day, having come back here, I told everyone all about it. Some of my relatives could not believe it. That is when I found out that I had been clinically dead for some minutes.

Since this experience, my life has been different. I have visions, connections with the Virgin, with Jesus and with beings, I have never otherwise seen. I have premonitory dreams on a world-scale. I can see what is wrong with seriously ill people, how long they have to live, or whether they can be saved. I have a clairvoyance, which is the most important thing - I feel it is my gift and my cross. What I have learned is that life is very short, but we should not fear death - we should pray, try to act rightly, and love everything that lives. I have decided to live my life slowly and with awareness. I can promise you that up there it is fabulous - but down here also has its charm.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  24 de mayo de 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time passes slowly there. In fact, let's say that time does not exist at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There were shining colors and blinding lights, but they did not hurt my eyes. I could see everything with clarity and in some cases with a soft mistiness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    But my ears did hear a great deal, with great clarity.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I saw a tunnel, at the beginning, but I did not enter it. I was not allowed to.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     they (said) I should be strong, that I had to remain here.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw several. The ones that were most noticeable to me were the light in the tunnel and the light surrounding my loved ones.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Happenings around the world - most recently in one of my premonitory dreams, I saw the Fukushima disaster five months before it happened. And I know even more.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My God has no face, my God is love and light. The rest of what people say about God is created by human beings.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My God has no face, my God is love and light. The rest of what people say about God is created by human beings.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned and understood what it is to die and to come back - these experiences.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some people drew away from me, and many drew nearer to me. And I can discern the rotten fruit from the rest.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The light emitted by my loved ones, and the warmth of their hands.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairvoyance, premonitory dreams, communication with deceased persons and with mystic beings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well, yes, but I can't explain them because they just remain beyond words.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The day after my operation. They were amazed, and some cried.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it as a gift - as if someone had given me a special opportunity, or as if I had been chosen, for some reason, to have this experience.  And I now feel that since then, I have changed, and my life is quite different.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As I was able to confirm that death is one more step in this life. And I think that here everything is lived through too quickly, so I now savor everything more slowly.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       SOMETHING INEXPLICABLE AND ASTONISHING EXPLODED WITHIN MY BEING!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Everything is very complete.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rosa_d_nde.html