{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rosa_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Rosa M NDE 6578","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rosa M NDE 6578  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rosa M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3251 Rosa M NDE 6578  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I arrived at the hospital to have my child.  I had an exam, and the diagnosis was that I was overdue and the baby was tangled up in the umbilical cord. The exam precipitated some heavy bleeding, to such an extent that my hands and feet were turning purple. 

The doctors started running around. They immediately put me in a wheelchair and rushed me to the operating room. From there, they gave me anesthesia and I began to fall asleep. 

Then I thought I had woken up, but, looking around, I realized that I was now above my body.  From above my body, I looked down and watched how the doctors were running here and there, doing things.  Most importantly, they were giving me electroshock.  Still above my body, I looked up and saw a strong, but not blinding, light. I felt drawn towards that light, and it seemed to send a bridge made of light to me. Crossing the bridge, at a certain point, I looked at my hands and feet and they were all right. They were no longer purple. I was wearing a white gown.  I felt peaceful and was in no pain. I walked towards the light, and the closer I got, the better I could see some interesting people there, who seemed to be illuminated by a light that was coming from behind them.

I was just getting to where the people were standing when I saw them stepping aside to the right and to the left, revealing a person who had in his arms a bundle wrapped in a little sky-blue blanket.  That person was Jesus!  I was sure it was him! He had light brown, almost blond hair, a red tunic, something like a sky-blue cape and he was wearing mustard-color men's sandals. He was not barefoot. 

I started to get closer, and I felt so happy to see him! We stood facing each other and he extended his right hand toward me while holding the bundle in his left. I stretched out my own hand so he would take me with him. He stopped me by signaling with his hand. Without speaking, he communicated to me that it was not my time yet. He let me know that I have a mission on earth. At that moment, he gave me the bundle.  It was a tiny baby!  My baby! My child! A boy! Jesus instructed me to call my baby ‘Emmanuel.’ (That means ‘God is with us.’) 

Right after that, I heard behind me a male voice saying: ‘Gorda!’ [literally ‘fat’, an affectionate nickname in Latin America]. ‘Gorda, wake up!’ When I awoke, there was the doctor, holding my hand, and my baby was lying beside me. I was in pain. I looked at my baby and he looked the same as he had when Jesus had given him to me.  As for the mission Jesus told me about, over the years I realized that I do have the ability to help people.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  28/04/83

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was always aware of what I was doing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     They were the same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    They were the same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, happiness, and, above all,  harmony.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    First, I told the doctor, then my family, and lastly, my church.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I realized that it was, because I had been clinically dead, according to what the doctor told me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that people go through that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That it was a beautiful experience, and it is God who decides when it should happen.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It should tell people that they think about it before telling the experience and that the word death doesn't need to be so hard.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rosa_m_nde.html