{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rosa_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Rosa R Probable NDE 3357","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rosa R Probable NDE 3357  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rosa R Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1314 Rosa R Probable NDE 3357  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I entered the operating room at 3:30 in the afternoon on the 15th of January 1991, to give birth to my daughter. It was a Cesarean.

They put me on a stretcher and told me to turn over as they were about to give me an epidural and, well, I did that; I turned and felt the pinch. The anesthesiologist left as soon as he finished and the nurse that was there turned me around immediately. That is, they didn't leave me for a minute on my side as they do with everyone else.

I only remember that they turned to me and 'poof!' Then, nothing else. Soon I saw myself in a dark tunnel, very near a super-brilliant light. When I saw the light, there were many people - very brilliant - dressed in white tunics with a rope belt, they stretched their arms and called to me to get closer. They invited me with a force filled with love, tranquility, peace - that is, many lovely things that I can't explain with words, but that attracted me enormously; it was as if I were in ecstasy. I started to advance towards them very happily. I felt very happy and content. Then, as I was about to 'touch' their hands - that is to say, when I was about to pass the limit between the light and the tunnel - I remembered my children (I already had three; with the one that was just born, four) and I said, 'No, I can't... my children?' I stayed for a time standing there; I looked at them with sadness and I turned around, giving them my back, to return from 'where I came' and then I awoke yelling: 'I don't want to die; my children.'

The communication with these brilliant persons was always as if by sentiment or telepathy, not by talking.

When I awoke in the intensive care room and yelled 'I don't want to die; my children,' I thought that they, the doctors and the nurses, heard me, but no - because my tongue felt boiled from the end to the tip and my mouth was swollen. Also, my head hurt very much; as if I'd hit it.

The only thing the doctor who operated on me said was that it was negligence on the part of the anesthesiologist; that he didn't stay at my side after having injected me. Anyway, they washed their hands (over it).

I was not well after the operation. I had a sort of amnesia but later I started recuperating bit by bit. Before that happened, I always had visions, premonitory dreams; I could read palms, etc. Afterwards, these things became more developed, but at the same time, I got closer to God and I started to read the Bible and decided not to continue with these things, since I learned that it's not good to do them.

I knowing who is calling by phone; I see lights; I see lights inside people; I know when my children are about to come home, or I start to talk about someone and just then that person calls on the phone, etc. It would take too long to explain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  15 Enero 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-relatedChildbirth    Other Operacion Cesarea.  Por la anestesia Epidural mal puesta.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe it was at all times. I always felt well; I did not have fear. Only at the end when I remembered about my children and I started to leave was I sad to do it for I (felt) very well - but at the same time I felt preoccupation and sadness for my children, about leaving them; that they would be left without me, and I left.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not listen with my ear, but with emotion and telepathy; I don't know how to explain it. They were emotions with letters (ha!); I don't know how to explain it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I soon came upon a tunnel or something dark and cave-like but with a sole brilliant, brilliant light that was only a few paces from where I was.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw brilliant beings but at least I didn't remember if I had known them; what's more, I don't remember their faces, but they were very good people, filled with love.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was a few paces from me. People, very brilliant, called to me - I don't know if the light from that place where they were was apart from the light that they had.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Much love, peace, tranquility, happiness, contentment, an explosion of all this all at once, very lovely. And all of this attracted me so enormously that I forgot that I had family, life on the earth. I believe that God, Jesus, makes us remember and return.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It's as I said above. I always have been a person that previously had premonitions, dreams, etc. After that it sharpened; I could see 'beyond' in the eyes of another person; if I wanted to have my parents to come, they would come by without knowing why, or I would call someone with a thought; well, it's too long to recount.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     There was a border in between the light and the tunnel. That is to say, the brilliant beings didn't go beyond the light; they didn't enter the tunnel; it seemed that they could only go up to a certain point.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm closer to God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm closer to God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes After passing through this experience, I've become more tranquil, more spiritual. I'm closer to God.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The moment that I received the light full of love, tranquility, peace - it attracted me enormously. Very lovely, it's a difficult sentiment to explain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     It's as I said, above. I always have been someone who before then had premonitions, dreams, etc. After that it sharpened; I could see 'beyond' in the eyes of another person; if I wanted to have my parents to come, they would come by without knowing why, or I would call someone with a thought; well, it's too long to recount.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It happened a good long time after, months; what happened is that at the beginning I had light amnesia; I was dazed; that started leaving me months later. At first I only told my husband, parents, and brothers - they were accustomed to hearing me when I told them what I had dreamt, etc. Then they were astonished at what I told them. I've been telling my friends one by one. To this day I continue doing that, ha ha, now that I am more confident and without fear. Some listen and smile; others want to know more and are curious. I tell them that I do not fear death.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I recall everything that I lived through; all that happened to me, I feel special and surprised, happy, tranquil and with much desire to tell my loved ones, to share the marvelous event that happened to me. How close I felt to God. But also, I feel that I'd better be quiet, when I'm with people I don't know well. I don't know why; perhaps for fear that they won't believe me; I don't know.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it's real, for I lived it. I was there, I was conscious the whole time. Now I am not afraid to tell it. I like knowing that I'm not the only one who went through this experience, which was so nice.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Well, I don't know if it has anything to do with it; when they operated on me in 1996 for a hysterectomy, I awoke, it seems like, I don't know - in the middle of the operation and everything around me was black and I felt and I heard the doctors. It was horrible because I wanted to yell and I couldn't move; I couldn't speak, everything was black, and I felt severe pain where they were operating on me. I don't know at which point I went back to sleep. They were the most horrible seconds, minutes - I don't know.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rosa_r_probable_nde.html