{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rose_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Rose D NDE 2483","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rose D NDE 2483  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rose D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						766  Rose D NDE  2483  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was extremely ill, dehydrated, and must have fallen into an unconscious state. All I remember is being in a place of bright light. There was another presence with me. I do not remember speaking but knew what this other being was saying. I did not see my own body or anyone else there at all - just light. I do not remember any exact words but the essence of what was I was being told. I asked if this was heaven and was told, 'Yes, if that is what you want to call the afterlife.' I responded, 'I do not believe in Heaven (per say) or an afterlife.' I was told I was wrong.

I had been in so much pain and was so ill but not in this place. The euphoria, peace and serenity were incomprehensible. I actually argued with this other presence by stating that people need to catch a few seconds of this place. To give them some hope and some peace. That there is a really big mess on earth. This being apparently has a sense of humor and responded with something like you are not supposed to argue with the creator or I will have to put you in time out. But even then, I was not afraid.

This entity then gently and warmly assured me that every single person was given enough information for him or her to make the right choices. Free will was a right not to be given up lightly. And sometimes seeing is not even enough for believing. Remember kindness, selflessness and love towards others will always guide you in the right directions. If you do not get it right, you will always have another change. You are not finished and have more work to do.

Then I woke up on the floor with the same euphoria, sweet smell and pain gone for about five more minutes. Then my illness came back. But I cannot forget the experience and feel I am supposed to somehow share it.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 January 31, 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious during the entire experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I did not have a body and could not see anything but white light.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear at all in a normal everyday aspect. I did not hear any words. I cannot even really describe it since I do not understand it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See above.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     the entire place appeared to be some sort of other type of dimension  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Euphoria like nothing that can be explained and peace. Also sadness for people who could not experience the rare and precious moment I had.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am not religious but now feel there is a spiritual being guiding our destiny and life after death. I am not afraid of death.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I am not religious but now feel there is a spiritual being guiding our destiny and life after death. I am not afraid of death.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This experience will change my life forever.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away I told my husband and my sister. It just happened yesterday and I am still recovering from the flu. Neither one seemed that surprised.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   As a health care worker I deal with illness and death. I have heard stories from patients regarding their own experiences with the tunnel, the lights, their life flashing before them, etc.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It does not matter to me if my experience was real or not. It only matters to me that I was given something special, a precious gift, I do not know why. And how I choose to use that gift is now up to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again I will choose to use this experience as a positive influence for the rest of my life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rose_d_nde.html