{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 7007 7279 7776","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_29_november_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 November 29 1889","mylang":"de"}
1889.] Phantasm8 of the. Dea<.?. 229
I.
PHANTASMS OF THE DEAD FROM ANOTHER
POINT OF VIEW.
By F. PODUORE.
The first crude hypothesis, that" ghosts" are the spirits of deceased
persons, actually walking this earth in quasi-material form, and holding
familiar intercourse with their survivors, is probably held now by few
if any of the intelligent students of the evidence amassed by the
Society. It is not that this hypothesis has fallen by the weight of
argument and evidence arrayed against it; it has merely shared in that
general euthanasia which has overwhelmed many other pious opinions
found inadequate to the facts. It has silently dropped out of view.
But, nevertheless, in the belief certainly of most of those who have
contributed experiences of their own to our collection,and of nearly all
those who have recorded for us experiences related to them by others,
the" ghost," the thing seen or heard, manifests intelligence, and bears
some definite relation to some deceased person; a relation possibly
similar to that suggested in Phantasms of tiLe Living to exist between
the apparition seen at the time of a death and the person whom it
resembles.
It is recognised, in short, that the phenomena are essentially hallu-
cinatory, but it is suggested that the hallucinations are in some sense
due to the agency of a deceased person, that they are possibly a reflec-
tion of his uneasy dream; or, if that conception should be found too
definite, that they represent in some way the fragmentary thoughts of
a decaying personality.
A close familiarity with the evidence amassed by the Society-a
familiarity extending over nearly eight years-has led me, not only to
question the adequacy and relevance of the evidence on which this
belief is founded, but to consider, further, whether the very existence
of the evidence, in its present form, may not be largely due to the pre-
existence of that belief in the minds of the witnesses. The hypotheses
advanced in the following paper, it should be premised, are purely
tentative. I am fully aware that the evidence is at present far too
meagre to justify confidence in any solution of the problems which it
presents. In fact, the main justification for attempting any solution a.t
the present time is to be found in the hope that such an attempt may
direct a.nd encourage the accumulation of further evidence. Moreover,
&. theory founded upon the evidence has recently been put forward
by Mr. Myers. And it seemed to me that the facts, as so far ascertained,
Q
Digitized by Google
230 PhantcuJ'Tl18 0/ the Dead, [Nov. 29.
lent themselves quite as readily to what may perhaps be called an
agnostic interpretation; and that it would advance the ultimate solution
of the problem if both views were fairly represented.
It will, I think, conduce to clearness if I here explain exactly what
evidence I am going to discuss. It is the series of narratives, collected
by the Literary Committee of the Society, which has been classed
together as the" G." series. This includes recognised phantasms of
dead persons, unrecognised·apparitions and voices, and the mysterious
noises which popularly suggest haunting. In fact the G. series corre-
sponds roughly to the popular idea of" ghosts." Early in the course
of the Literary Committee's work it was found that the labour of
studying the mass of evidence accumulated in MS. would be well nigh
intolerable, and a large part of it was, therefore, printed at the expense
of a member of the Committee-not for publication, but merely for
the convenience of the Committee itself. The cases thus printed are
numbered G.l, G.2, &:c. (in the series we are dealing with), and by these
numbers I shall refer to them. At a later date some of the narratives
were copied, in manifold, by the type-writer or cyclostyle. and these
subsidiary series are referred to as G.t.I. G.c.l, &:c. Files of these
narratives are kept at the offices of the S.P.R.. and can under
certain conditions be inspected by any Member or Associate. After a
time the plan of printing on slips was abandoned, and that of printing
the na1'ratives in the JOl&rnaZ (for private circulation) was adopted
instead, the same plan of lettering and numbering being retained.
The evidential standard to which a narrative must attain before
being printed even for consideration by the Literary Committee has
never, of course, been rigidly defined. It has naturally risen since the
Committee began its work, but even now it should be borne in mind
by Members reading the JOf.III"f&al that the Committee do not pledge
themselves individually or collectively to any estimate of the value of
a story as evidence for supernormal phenomena by printing it for con-
sideration in the Journal.
From the following review of the evidence for "ghosts" I have
ucluded, except for illustrative purposes, all cases of the apparition of
a human figure, whether recognised or not, to a solitary percipient,
except when some connection ~th matters outside the knowledge of
the percipient is established,on the ground that there is nothing in such
a case to distinguish the figure from a purely subjective hallucination.
and that as such, in the absence of further evidence, we are bound to
class it. Cases in which the only phenomena are auditory have also
been excluded. Such cases stand much lower in the evidential scale
than cases which treat of visual phenomena. The consideration of them
would not appreciably affect the conclusions to be drawn, whilst to
introduce them would cumber the argument.
Digitized by Google
1889.] fro1l!' Another Point of View. 231
There remain some 200 stories, the majority hitherto unpublished,
included in series G. of the Society's evidences. These narro.tives record
the apparition of a figure either on separate occasions to different per-
cipients in the same localitY-BUCCe8ftve cases; or to two or more persons
simultaneously-collective cases; or to a solitary percipient, where the
veridical nature of the phantasm is proved by some corroborating cir-
cumstance. A small proportion of narratives given at second-band, or
otherwiseof doubtful authenticity, have been included in the collection,
and these have been employed in the argument to illustrate the ten-
dency of such narro.tives generally to merge into myth, and to indicate
the possible genesis of some of their more remarkable features. In
discussing the narratives in detail it will be shown, first, that there are
certain features-to wit, the recognition of the phantasm, the furnish-
ing of information by it, its association with human remains or with
some past tragedy-occurring commonly in these stories, which
strongly suggest the connection of the phantasm with some deceased
person. The stories, however, in which these features occur are almost
invariably either second-hand, or, if narrated by the actual percipient,
are in some other point open to suspicion of inaccuracy. It is inferred,
therefore, that the frequent occurrence of these features in narrat.ives
which are evidentially weak, and their absence, as a general rule, from
those which are evidentially strong, indicate that there is a strong
mythopreic tendency at work, moulding ghost stories into conformity
wit.h the preconceived opinions of the narrator; that first-hand stories,
as a rule, escape the effects of this mythopreic tendency through the
greater sense of responsibility of the narrators; and that when first-
hand stories present any of the unusual features referred to they are,
to some extent, to be held suspect.
It will be shown, next" that first-hand, and less commonly second-
hand, narratives present many points-for instance, the absence of any
apparent motive in the appearance of the phantasm, its tendency to
assume various forms, the liability of the percipients to casual and
apparently non-veridical hallucinations, the occurrence of phantasms
resembling animals-difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that the
apparition seen is the manifestation of an intelligent entity, and sug-
gesting rather that it is to be attributed to casual hallucination.
One or two narratives, given by the percipients as "ghost" stories,
are then quoted, and it is shown that they may be attributed to simple
hallucination. It is suggested that in such narratives as these we have
the raw material of ghost st.ories; that a morbid tendency on the part of
the percipient, or the feeling of vague alarm caused by the occurrence
.of inexplicable sounds, may give rise to a hallucination; and that this
may be repeated in the experience of the original percipient, or in that
.of others who have shared his alarm. The resemblance alleged to exist
Q 2
Digitized by Google
232 Plumia8'flis of .the Dead [Nov. 29.
between successive apparitions may be attributed, it is suggested, partly
to expectation due to half-conscious hints, partly to the action of th~
mythopmic tendency above referred to, which operates to reduce dis-
crepancies and enhance similarities in the recollection of the various
experiences. Finally, it is suggellted that in successive cases, where
these causes are demonstrably insufficient, and in collective cases
generally, thought-transference may have operated between the original
percipient and all who share a similar experience.
As regards the numerous instances quoted in previous papers read
before the Society, of recognition of a phantasm by some marked
peculiarity, it is suggested that thought-transference from the minds of
persons still living is in almost all cases the explanation more directly
suggested by the facts. Moreover, such thought-transference is a.
cause of whose operation we have independent proof, whilst we have
little or no evidence of the action of disembodied intelligences.
On the hypothesis, then, that the apparitions seen in what are
known as "haunted" houses are actually connected with a deceased
person, there are certain characteristics for which we should be justified
in looking. We should expect, for instance, t() find in some of these
stories evidence tending to identify the figure seen. Such evidence
would be furnished (1) by the recognition of the features or the
clothes, or (2) from correct information given by the apparition on
matters outside the knowledge of the percipient. Or, in cases where
the apparition remained unrecognised, the probability of its connection
with some person deceased would be greatly strengthened by the dis-
covery (3) of human remains, or (4) of other evidence pointing to a
former tragedy in the locality of the appearance.
(1) As regards the first head, it is not enough, as already said,
that 0. solitary percipient should see a figure which he recognises
as resembling that of some friend whom he knows to be dead.
To establish any claim upon our consideration the pbantasm must
be seen by more than one person; or appear at 0. time when the
fact of the death is not known to the percipient; or the recogni-
tion must be of an indirect kind-that is, the phantasm must
exhibit some true feature previously unknown to the percipient; or
must be subsequently proved to resemble some deceased person who
was unknown to the percipient. Cases coming under each of these
categories are alleged to occur, but for the sake of clearness they will
be more conveniently discussed in the latter part of this paper, which
deals with the evidence recently brought forward by lIr. Myers in his
papers in the Proceedings, Parts XIV. and XV. One exception may,
however, be made.
In those cases in which, from a nlere description of the figure.
Digitized by Google
.1889.] from Anothc7' Point'of View. 233
resemblance is inferred to some person unknown to t·he percipient, the
evidence must, it is obvious, as a general rule be inconclusive. Except
in cases where there is some marked physical peculiarity or deformity,
it is difficult to conceive a verbal description which, taken alone, would
satisfy an intelligent critic of the identity of t.he person described. But
Jln account where the percipient is alleged to have selected a picture or
photograph as resembling the apparition would seem to stand upon a
.somewhat different footing. The materials for recognition are here
ampler and more precise, and the evidence may be conveniently dis-
cussed at this point. 'Ihe results may be given in a few words. There
are six such cases in our collection. Of these, one (G. 62) is third-
hand. In two other narratives (Mr. X. Z.'s case, Proceedings, Vol. 1.,
pp. 106-7, and G. 28, Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 101) the evidence of
the percipient is entirely uncorroborated as regards the recognition of
the picture or photograph. In the first case there is a very strong
presumption that such corroboration would have been forthcoming if
the facts had been accurately represented in the percipient's nan-ative;
and there are proved inaccuracies, which have led to the case being
withdrawn. (Journal, Vol. II., p. 3.) And an element of weakness is
introduced into the other case by the fact that the painting which was
recognised, not without some prompting, was actually hanging in the
dining-room of the house in which the figure appeared, and might
conceivably have been seen by the percipient on the previous day.
Moreover, this case also is susceptible of another interpretation (see
p. 281 below). In the fourth case (G. 133)1 the evidence for the recog-
nition has, under a rigid scrutiny, broken down, and there is strong
b'l'Ound for believing that there was a mistake of identity, the supposed
ghost being a real boy. The two remaining stories are discussed below
(pp. 280, 292), and grounds are shown in each case for attributing the
recognition to some other cause than the action of the deceased. None
of these six cases, therefore, in which the apparition of a person
unknown to the percipient is alleged to have been subsequently recog-
nised from a picture, go far to prove any connection of the apparition
with the dead. There is another narrative (G. 48) in which the
phantasm is said to have been recognised from a corpse; but in this
case the evidence is third-hand, if not even more remote. Lastly
(G. 102), there is an alleged recognition of an article of dress worn by
a phantasm, but it is only at second-hand.
(2) I have found 20 cases-there may be more-in which informa-
tion outside the possible range of the percipient's knowledge is said to
have been given bya phantasm, or in a dream. Of these 20 cases only
two (G. 157 and 623) are undoubtedly at first-hand. The first is the
1 An account of this case-tbe gbost of Tom Potter-was published in .Appari-
'W7I8, by Mr. Newton Crosland, pp.45-50.
Phantasm8 of tlL6 Dead [Nov. 29,
account of the discovery of the dead body of a suicide through a dream.
The evidence here is insufficient; the person who was in a position to
give the most COIlclusive corroboration to the percipient's narrative
declined to answer any questions, or give any infonnation whatever.
And the place where the body was found-a neighbouring summer-house
-seems not beyond the range of conjecture, unconscious or otherwise.
In G. 623 (quoted and discussed in Mr. Myers' paper in Proceeding.,
VoL VI., pp. 35-41), a skeleton was actually discovered in a spot
indicated by the percipient, which he stated was revealed to him in a
dream. Unfortunately the percipient was dead some years before
the story reached us, and we have had to rely upon his testimony
as recorded. The case is discussed at length below (p. 303). Of the
remaining 18 narratives, none of which, as said, are at first-hand,
there are six cases in which a murder is alleged to have been revealed
(G. 150, 170, 308, 414, 460, 611). There are two cases (G. 129 and
171) in which infonnation is given as to the condition of a body
lawfully buried; two cases (G. 421 and G.c. 600) in which the phantasm
shows a laudable desire to discharge his just debts; and there are eight
cases (G. HI, 173, 304, 362, 379, 411, 412, and G.c. 305) in which
the apparition gives warning of impending death, indicates the where-
abouts of a missing will, or supplies some other information. Of these,
one (G.173) treats of a missing will discovered through the agency of a.
deceased uncle. The story was never published, and as, since its
receipt, we have ascertained that the narrator is a young woman who
at one time earned a precarious livelihood by copying articles from
American magazines, and submitting them as her own composition to
the judgment of English editors, and as a critical examination has
made it evident that the necessary attestations to the truth of the
narrative, purporting to be written and signed by various persons,
are in the same handwriting variously disguised, it is perhaps not
unreasonable to conjecture that the story itself lacks objective
foundation.
Lastly, there are three cases, all second-hand, or more remote
(G. 138, 338, 435), in which an apparition averts a catastrophe-either
suicide or a serious accident. Thus out of 23 cases in which
a definite piece of infonnation is alleged to have been given, or II.
definite purpose shown, only two are at first-hand, and in both of these
narratives the evidence is incomplete, whilst the facts themselves
suggest a perfectly nonnal explanation.
(3) There are about 13 cases in our collection in which human
remains are alleged to have been discovered on the scene of unex-
plained ghostly manifestations. But in three instances only does
the actual discovery rest upon unquestionable evidence (G. 18, 154,
and 386, quoted in Proceeding., Vol.VI., Case IX.). In four other cases
Digitized by Google
1889.] lrom .d'MtMr Point 01 View. 235
(G. 61, 606, G.c. 306, 617), the whole of the evidence is second-
hand and even more remote; and in one of these (G. 61) the discovery
of the skeleton is explicitly contradicted on evidence which may be
taken 88 authoritative. In G.c. 900 the evidence for the finding of &
skeleton rests on the uncorroborated memory of a child of six, who does
not profess to have seen the skeleton dug up; this story appears to
have been first committed to writing nearly 00 years after the alleged
event. In G. 406 (ProceedingB, VoL VI., Case X.) the evidence for the
skeleton depends on the narrator's remembrance of a conversation
held at least 30 years before, and in G. 2 and 614 the authority for
the alleged discovery is not given. In G. 331 the story, though
first-hand, is from an illiterate person; and the figure said to have
been seen, that of a shadowy woman, bas no obvious connection with
the remains found, which were those of a baby. In G. 106 the evidence
for the finding of the skeletons is not first-hand, and the narrator is
not inclined to attribute the apparition seen "to other than natural
causes." The story, however, is quot-ed. here in order that readers may
be in a position to judge of the evidence for themselves. We received.
the original account from Mr. T. J. Norris, Tempe, Dalkey, Ireland.
G. 106.
October 17th, 1883.
I send you particulars of an apparition seen by three sons of the late
Rev. E. L., for many years incumbent of this parish, and by him related
tome.
About 30 years ago, Mr. L.'s three eldest sons went to spend the evening
out, and on their return home they saw, near Glasthun (a village between
Kingstown and this), three figures rise from the ground to a few
feet above the ground, and then slowly vanish into air. One saw
it and called the attention of the others. They told their father 011
their return, but he treated it as a delusion, and silenced them by
his declared belief that it was a spirituous, not a spiritual, appearance.
They all entered either army or navy, and were absent when, in sinking
the foundations of a house, theyl came upon three skeletons. On the return
to Ireland of one of his sons, Mr. I•. got him to point out where they had
seen the appearance, and he pointed out the very place where the bodies had
been found.
Major L., one of the percipients, writes to us in 1884 :-
On a fine clear night many years ago, I and a brother walked homo
between 10 and 11 o'clock, after spending the evening with some friends. On
our way along the high road we passed a small villa, situated close to the sea
shore; an open, level grass laWIl lay in front, reaching to the road where we
stood, from which it was divided by a low wall. The lawn was enclosed 011
either side by walls and small trees, the house being in the open space directly
opposite to us, about 150 or 200 yards distant. Our attention was somehow
1 The workmen.-F. P.
Digitized by Google
236 : Phant(Umls oftlte Dead [Nov. 29,
Q.ttractod, and we saw what appeated to be three indistinct figures in white,
which seemed to rise as it were from the ground in front of the villa. The
figure in the centre was taller than the others. "We watched for some time
and finally the figures subsided just as they had risen. I think there was a
slight declivity in the ground close to tho house, which was probably built on
a lower level, and thus the etrect described might be accounted for if figures
had approached from tho base of the house. There were many houses in
the immediate vicinity, but, so far as I can remember, they were closed at
that hour, and there were no people about. I feel almost certain also that
the villa was not then occupied, unless it may have been by a caretaker.
On "arrival at home we related what we had aeen, and were of course
laughed at, and indeed the matter did not make much impression upon us,
and in a ahort time passed from our minds. Some years afterwards I was
serving abroad with my regiment when I received a letter from a member of
my family who was present on the occasion referred to, recalling my memory
to it, and stating that the lawn had recently been broken up, that in the spot
indicated by us three skeletons had been found, and that the one in the
centre was the tallest. I should add that there was no story or legend
associated with the place, that the discovery of the skeletons caused much
surprise, and that, so far as I am aware, no clue has beun found to their
identity or history.
In reply to our questions Major L. writes :-
lat. The night was very clear and bright. Whether the moon was actually
shining I cannot positively remember, but I thiuk it probable.
2nd. My approximate distance from the figures was perhaps a little over
100 yards. I feel sure that what I saw was not an effect of mist rising from
damp growld.
3rd. I have uever before had any experience of the sort, or been the
subject of auy hallucination that I am aware of. Nor am I in this instance
inclined to attribute the circumstance which I bave narrated to other than
natuml causes. The discovery of the skeletons was a very remarkable
coincide~ce, but it may be nothing more.
"We have also received a precisely similar account of the incident
from the son of the other percipient-now dead.
(4) In nearly all the second-hand narratives, and in a very large
proportion of those which have been given to us by the actual percipi-
ents, a tragedy is reported to have taken place in the locality where
the manifestations occul·red. The tragedy may take the form of a
premature death, a murder, a suicide, sometimes the death of a miser.
The account of the tragedy is often very circumstantial; but usually
rests upon tradition alone. It is manifest, therefore, that until some
proof of the death has been adduced, we cannot assume the report
to afford evidence of more than the tendency of tradition to conform to
preconceived ideas of the general fitness of things. In one case, indeed
(Proceedings, Vol. I., pp. 106-7), the narrator states that he had himself
searched the parish registeJ"S~ and ascertained the date of the death,
~r rather deaths, the tragedy in. this case taking the form of a murder,
Digitized by Google
1889.] from Anothel' Point of View. 237
and the subsequent suicide of the murderer. The month and day
were stated to correspond with the· date of the appearance of the
phantasm. As was stated, however, in the Journal (Vol. II., p. 3),
a prolonged and careful search of the registers has failed to corroborate
our informant's statement; and we have learnt from another source that
the double event referred to never took place; and that the alleged
murderer actually died in another part of the country, and at another
time of year. There are, however, a few cases in which the death, though
no valid evidence for it is adduced, is alleged to have taken place so
recently that there is perhaps a reasonable presumption that the facts
are correctly stated. Some of these cases will be referred to later.
There are also a few cases in which we have sufficient evidence that the
death did occur as alleged. In one such case (G. 182, Journal, Vol. II.,
pp. 385, et seq.), the evidence is furnished by a tombstone in the parish
churchyard; and it seems not unlikely that the tragedy, thus solidly
and obtrusively attested, may actually have been the cause of the
disturbances in the house, though not in the precise manner suggested
in the narrative. Three other cases are given below (G. 187, 188,189),
and it will be seen that in at least two of these cases the facts of the
life and death were within the knowledge of the percipients, and the
person whom the phantasm was supposed to resemble had been
known personally to some of those present in the house.
To sum up: The characteristics which we should expect to find
associated with these manifestations, if they are actually connected
with deceased persons, do not, it would seem, occur at all, or occur
very rarely. The appearance of these characteristics in some of the
narratives now under review is due, in at least one case, to deliberate
hoaxing (G. 173); in a few other cases, as in Proceedings, Vol. I., pp.
106-7, they may reasonably be attributed to hallucinations of memory.
Most commonly, however, they appear to be the result of unconscious
misrepresentation by the narrator of the experiences of others. From
another point of view it may be regarded as a strong testimony to the
general accuracy and trustworthiness of the first-hand narratives which
we have received that, in spite of the urgent temptation to embellish-
ment thus demonstrated, these characteristics so rarely occur. Con-
versely, when they do occur they must from their very rarity be
regarded with reserve.
But we may learn much, not only from what we fail to find, but
from what we actually do find in the best attested narratives. We have
seen that the authentic ghost with any characteristics to distinguish
him from a subjective hallucination is rarely recognised: that he rarely
brings any message from the dead to the living: that his connection
with skeletons and tragedies is obscure and uncertain. He is, in fact,
usually a fugitive and irrelevant phantasm. He flits as idly across
Digitized by Goo~
238 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29,
the scene as the figure cast by a magic lantern, and he possesses,
apparently, as little purpose, volition, or intelligence.
Often his appearance is so brief and so unsubstantial that he can
be called little more than the suggestion of 0. figure. He bears as little
resemblance to the aggrieved miser, the repentant monk, the unquiet
spirit of the murderer or his victim, with whom the teachers of our
childhood and the dinner-parties of our maturer years have made us
familiar, as the Dragons whom Siegfried slew bear to the winged lizards
whose bones lie buried in the Sussex Weald. Moreover, there are cer-
tain constantly recurring characteristics in these stories which are
difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that the apparitions are due to
any external agency, and which seem to point to another explanation.
(1) It frequently happens that the apparition assumes a different
shape at different times,or to speak JDore accurately,that different figures
are seen in the same house. And even when the different narrators repre-
sent the figures seen as being on all occasions identical, examination of
their evidence makes this identity doubtful. Impressions so momentary
as these must of necessity be very vague and elusive in the subsequent
memory. The details are likely to be filled in after hearing the
desCriptions of others; so that features discerned or believed to be
common become more definite in recollection and discrepancies tend to
disappear. In short, the image which remains in the memories of all
the percipients is apt to resemble a composite photograph, in which all
the common features are emphasised, and details found only in indi-
vidual cases are blurred or faintly indicated. Sometimes, however, the
diverse character of the ghost is no matter of inference. Thus in
G. t. 314 (JO'Ut"lUll, Vol. III., pp. 241, et seq.), the dress of a female
figure is variously described by different witnesses as "greyish or
mauve," "lilac print," "white," "light," "red," "slate coloured silk with
red cloak"; and the hair is described as "fair," "dark," "brown," and
"brownish." The events occurred in t.he years 1885-6-7, and the accounts
were written, in some cases, within a few weeks of their occurrence.
If a longer interval had been allowed to elapse between the events
fmd their record, it would seem not improbable that this more than
Homeric latitude of colour-epithets might have been blended into
uniformity. From the same narrative it appears that, in addition to
the polychromatic figure or figures referred to above, there were seen
in the same house by various percipients a man with an evil face in a
white working suit j "a dark swarthy-looking man with very black
whiskers, dressed like a merchant sailor," and a "devilish face" and
hands with no body attached. In G. 16 the narrstorand others see at
one time the tall slender figure of a woman dressed in black, at
another time a short lady in a dark green dress; in G. 316 we hear of
"a clergyman dressed in his clericals," and a woman j in G. 388
Digitized by Google
1889.] from .Anothe,· Point of V"uw. 239
a woman in white and a woman in green j in G. 454 a little girl "in
white, with long streaming fair hair," 41 a man in a scarlet hunting-coat
and top-boots," and a taIl lady with a child in her arms. In G. 463 we
have" a trim little page in antique costume," a man with blood-
stained face, and a woman in short-waisted dress and broad frilled cap ;
in G. 468 a man with a face "pale to sickliness," and a little old lady.
And in G. 168 we make the acquaintance, successively, of an old
man, a large white "waddlewayed" dog, "a white figure" not more
precisely described, a stout middie-a.ged. woman with large 1lapping
frills and a baby, and a shower of blood. (See also G. 19, 64, 73, 179.
181, 183, 407, 440, 477, G. t. 301, and below G. 186, 189.) In two out
of the very smallltumber of cases in which we have been able to trace
the occurrence of visual phenomena in the same house through two or
more successive tenancies, the character of the figures is found to vary.
(See G. 181, Journal, VoL II., pp. 249, ee 8eq., and G. 187 below.
See also Proceeding8, Vol. III., pp. 117,148.)
In G. 146 and G. t. 303, 308 it is by no means clear that the
apparitions seen on different occasions bore any marked resemblance.
And speaking generally, the identity of the figures seen in many cases
is rather assumed from the absence of recorded variations than
demonstrated by any detailed agreement in the accounts received by
us j the descriptions given by different witnesses being frequently too
vague to admit of any precise comparison.
Of course, it may be argued that each figure corresponds to a
separate agent, and that when many diverse apparitions are seen in
one locality,we may infer that that locality is haunted by many different
ghosts. It is impossible at present to prove that this is not the true
explanation of the facts. Indeed, if our imaginary interlocutor were to
develope bj.s hypothesis yet further, and contend that every so-called
subjective hallucination is due to post-mortem agency of some kind or
another, I should be at a loss to prove his position untenable. But it
is clear that in a serious argument the burden of proof would lie upon
him who invoked an unknown agency; and it is obvious that the
characteristic which first drew attention to the phenomena occurring
in "haunted" houses, and which more than any other still induces us
to attach weight to the records, is the alleged resemblance between the
various appearances. If this resemblance can in any case be shown to
rest on insufficient evidence, the explanation by subjective hallucination
will appear the easier alternative. And the argument in favour of
adopting this explanation will be perceptibly strengthened if we fiml
that the primary percipient or one of the percipients has had previous
hallucinatory experiences. The popular instinct to assimilate the
various apparitions is, no doubt, founded on a true appreciation of the
bearing of the evidence.
Digitized by Google
'240 PhantaBriuJ of the Dead [Nov. 29,
(2) Again, figures of animals are seen occasionally in the Same house
with human figures. Thus in G. 38, at one time the figure seen is that
<If a man in black, at another that of a black dog; in G. 101 the figure
of a man and a white cat; in G. 467 another white cat is s~n, and a
lady in deep mourning. (OJ G. 43 and 168.) In other cases anima.ls
appear alone, without the accompaniment of human figures. Thus, in
O. 34 the house was haunted by a spectral tabby cat, described as "a
very miserable and unhappy looking creature," which found a melancholy
diversion in suddenly appearing before the cook and causing her to
stumble. In G. 54, which I quote as an illustration, a figure resembling
.a bull is seen by two persons simultaneously. Mrs. Potter writes on
December 6th, 1874:-
G.54.
The Rake.
Returning from church, my husband camo to meetme at the Wynt-gate.
Instead of going straight home, we went along the walk leading to the Dun-
geon, and &8 it commenced raining, we sheltered under one of the fine old
trees overhanging the path. We had not stood many minutes when we saw a
large beast, coming straight towards us. My husband, thinking it was one
of the beasts from the park, lllet it, saying, "Get out, you beast," striking at
it, when, to our astonishment, it disappeared like a shadow. I must mention
that we had a small dog with us. The night was a sort of grey light, and the
animal seemed to come from the Dungeon; in fact, we thought it quite close
upon us. We were not afraid, and both thought that it was delusion or a reflec-
tion at the time; it was after that I felt timid about it, and never dared
venture near the old castle again,where I had spent many happy moments by
myself.
ELIZABETH POTTBR.
BENJAMIN POTl'ER.
The above happened in 1858.
Miss Gladstone (now Mrs. Drew) wrote to Lady Rayleigh, from
Ha.wa.rden, on December 9th, 1874:-
It has taken a long time to get the old castle (story) from the Potters.
• • • • I see they have omitted to specify that it happened in September,
about a quarter to eight o'clock, and that the "beast" was apparently a
bull. • • • The Potters have left out several details in their account
which I remember, and I suppose they have forgotten. The animal came 80
close that she sprang back and screamed, but he said, ., All right,II and kicked
at it with the words, "Get out, you beast."
In a later letter Mrs. Drew adds:-
Remomber, the old castle, &c., stands in the garden, within the rails,
80 no cattle, or sheep, or horses come inside the grounds. No, there is no
ghost story otherwise about the old castle that I know of.
With this account compare G. 123, 142, and 608 (second-hand),
although it is not clear that in these cases the object seen may not
Digitized by Google
1889.] from .Anothe)~ Point of View. 241
have been a real animal. The narratives numbered O. 124, 125, 144,.
(third-hand), 161, and 373 also deal with apparitions of animals.
In many cases mysterious lights are seen as well as figures of men
or animals. (See O. 19, 63, 76, 148, 163, 168, 383, O. t. 4, and many
others.)
No doubt many of those who have recorded experiences of this kind
hold that, as the figures of men may be assumed to represent in some·
sort the "ghosts" of human beings, so the figures of animals may
represent the ghosts of animals. The difficulties of such an interpreta-
tion are obvious, but they need not be discussed at length here. Most
students of the subject, at any rate, are agreed that the actual phe-
nomena are hallucinatory; and it is not necessary, therefore, to ascribe.
figures resembling animals to the agency of animals. It is at all events
permissible to suppose that these figures are the products of some higher
intelligence. And such a supposition is obviously necessary in the C&S&
of the hallucinatory lights and inanimate objects generally.
But if once this supposition is admitted, the outworks of the theory
of post-mortem agency are destroyed. To the popular mind the things
seen are what they represent; the figure of a man is the ghostly counter-
part of a man, having a definite substance and extension in space; and
so the figure of an animal is the ghost of an animal. The instructed
adherents of the p08l-mortem theory reject this crude yiew; but,.
nevertheless, their position derives its main support from an assump-
tion which is in essence indistinguishable from it-the assumption, to
wit, that the hallucinatory figure necessarily bears some resemblance
to the person by whose agency it is, on the hypothesis, produced. But.
if the figures of animals may be, and the figures of inanimate ohjects
1llllle be produced by 0. cause unlike themselves, what ground have we
for assuming resemblance in the first case1 And if no such ground
can be shown-if it be admitted that the agent may produce images
unlike himself-why should we restrict our choice of an agent in any
case 1 Why should we, in any case, seek the agent amongst the dead,
whom we do not know, rather than amongst the living, of whose-
existence and powers we are assured t
(3) Another very noteworthy feature in the well-attested narratives
is that in many cases one or more of the percipients have experienced
other hallucinations, which mayor may not have been shared by othersL
Thus in O. 184, 305, 476,1 G.t. 7, 316 (Journal, Vol. III., p. 292), and
G.c. 8, one of the percipients in a collective case, and in G. 187
(below p. 267) two percipients out of three, have had previous visual
hallucinations unshared. In O.c. 111, the percipient describes four'
1 Two different stories bear this number; the one here referred to is that printed
in the Jwmal for May. 1886.
Digitized by Google
242 Phantasm8 of the Dead [Nov. 29;
visual hallucinations, two of which were collective and two unshared.
In G. 314 and 315 the narrator describes two collective hallucinations
of his own experience. One of the two percipients in a collective
hallucination (G. 334) has also lived in 0. "haunted" house (G. 333).
And passing from collective to what may perhaps be termed
.,successive" cases-i.e., non-collective cases of the ordinary "haunted
house" type, where a figure is seeu on different occasions in the same
locality-we find that in G. 328 and 395 one of the percipients in
each case has had another visual hallucination; and in G.c. 313, a lady
who was fortunate enough as a child to see Queen Elizabeth in a house
in the Old Kent-road has also sent us accounts of other hallucinations,
experienced by her, not shared by others.
And finally we have a large number of cases in which the same per-
cipient or group of percipients has witnessed inexplicable phenomena,
visual or auditory, on more than one occasion, and in more than one
locality. (See G. 7 and 41, 14 and 104, 40, 101 and 114, 108, 116,
464, 5 and 6, 475 and 6, and lastly 468, 474, and G.c. 310.)
There are indications that this tendency to hallucination is
hereditary. In G. 169, for instance, an unshared hallucination is
reported of a lady, whose two sisters contribute similar experiences of
their own in another house (Proceedings, Vol. I., pp. 109-113). In G. 318
and 319, various visual hallucinations, all unshared, are reported to
have been experienced by two sisters; in 353 and 354, unshared
hallucinations are reported of a father and daughter respectively; and
Mrs. V. S., one of the percipients in G. 468, 474, and G.c. 310,
resided in another house (G. 469), where not she herself, but her two
daughters, saw hallucinatory figures. The daughters have also had
other experiences of the kind.
These cases, however-and it is probable that there are others
which I have passed over in an examination by no means exhaustive--.
must be taken only as samples.
In very few C8Ses in our collection have we succeeded in obtaining
the first-hand testimony of all the witnesses. Had we done so, I can
feel no doubt that we should be able to point to a much larger
number of cases in which the percipient's experience in a haunted
house had been anticipated by a solitary hallucination apparently
subjective.
Thus, while on the one hand we ha.ve found very little trustworthy
evidence to connect the phantasm seen in a. haunted house with any
person deceased; very little, indeed, to suggest the intelligence, the
personality, or even the continuity of the underlying cause, there
are many constantly recul·ring features in the best authenticated
of the narratives under review which are very hard to reconcile with
any such hypothesis. It is difficult, for ill$tance, to recognise the
Digitized by Google
1889.] 11'om .Another Point 01 V"uw. 243
identity of a phantasm which, as in G. 168, presents itself now under
the guise of an old m:J.n, now as a middle-aged woman with flapping
frills and a baby, and occasionally !loS a "waddlewayed" dog, 0. white
figure, or a shower of blood. Unless, indeed, we suppose, with one of
the most ingenious of our critics,1 that ghosts suffer from a want of
co-ordination between the sub-conscious cerebral centres, and that these
Protean transformations are the result of aphasic attempts to render
themselves intelligible.
Seriously, it must be admitted that the fact that the figures seen
in a haunted house are apt to assume at different times different forms,
including those of animals and vague lights, suggests that the pheno-
mena. are due, not to an alien spiritUal presence, but to some predis-
position to hallucination on the part of the percipients. And the
numerous cases in which it can be shown that the percipients have
experienced other hallucinations of various kinds, shared and unshared,
give strong confirmation to this view. If the possibility be once
admitted that a casual hallucination may not only be repeated in the
experience of the original percipient, but may be communicated by him
to other persons living in the same locality, most of the difficulties in
the interpretation of our evidence disappear. In the great majority of
cases expectation or terror, when once the first vision is bruited abroad,
might be sufficient to account for its repetition, and the greater or less
• resemblance which the experience of later percipients bore to that of
the original seer would be attributable to hints of the original appear-
ance unconsciously received or half forgotten. IIi the cases, not very
numerous, where there seems to be some proof that no hint ofany former
experience had reached the percipient,2 it is still possible to suppose that
any resemblance between the earlier and later apparitions, if sub-
stantin.ted, is due to the operation of thought-transference.
I proceed to give various narratives as illustrations, beginning with
tbree cases where there seems reason to attribute the apparition wit-
nessed by a single person to fear, expectation, or, generally, the
emotional state of the percipient.
The following case has been received from Mr. Joseph Skipsey, the
miner poet, now custodian of the Shakespeare Museum at Stratford-
on-Avon.
G.c.613.
When I was 10 years old, working in the pit at Percy Main Colliery,
near North ShieldB, I yoked a horse to a train of rolling waggons and waited
.at a siding, a Bpot on which Bome 30 years before a man had been killed. I
J Mr. Andrew Lang, in Caaeu Ptrilotu.
I See for a collection of IIOme of these, Mre. Bidgwick'a paper on II Phantasms of
the Dead," in ProeudifI(J', Vol. UI.
Digitized by Google
244 Phantasm8 of the Dead [Nov. 29,
had frequently beim at this point before without thinking about this circum-
stance. Upon this monling it suddenly occurred to me strongly that this
tragedy had happened; I felt afraid and blew my light out lest I should see
anything. A fow minutes afterwards everything around me became visible-
the coal·wall, the horse, &c. I was nstonished at this because there was no
visible source of light. I then heard a footstep cominl{ and saw along tho
drift·waya pair of legs in short breeches, as a miner's would be, and hands
hanging down the sides. The upper part of theadvancing figure was shrouded
in cloud. The figure carried no light. This imperfect figure came to me,
took hold of me, and I felt a man's grip, but I also felt that it was friendly.
It fondled me, and I felt both the hands and tho body. I looked earnestly
for the f!\Ce but saw nothing but dark cloud. Then the figure passed me and
disappeared. I felt paralysed and unable to speak. I felt no fear after it had
left me, and I often went to the same place but saw nothing.
On my telling this to Tom Gilbis, a miner friend, he told me that he had
seen a ligbt in a hand in a tramway in another mine, but no body. The light
swunground and disappeared.
JOSEPH SXlP8EY.
Deumber 13th, 1884.
The obvious explanation of the experience narrated is that it is a
simple hallucination, rounded, perhaps, into a more perfect whole
in the memory of an old man recounting a vision of his childhood.
The hallucination may well have been due to terror, caused by the awe-
inspiring surroundings-a terror of which sufficient evidence is giveu by
the percipient's action in blowing out his light. It would not, perhaps,
be hazardous to conjecture that under favourable circumstances the
story, if widely reported, might have given rise to a whole crop of more
or less similar apparitions, material for the story of a haunted mine.
In the next case (G. 174), which is extracted from.A. Higltland Toltr
witl, Dr. Candlisl, (second edition, pp.85.88), by Dr. A. Beith, a well-
known minister of the Free Church of Scotland, the percipient's visual
hallucination or dream appears to have nearly coincided with a noise
heard oy two other persons as well as himself. It seems not improb-
able that t.he noise heard was due to some normal agency, and W8.l:I
itself the cause of the vision, which in the order of perception preceded
it. It may, for instance, couceivably have been caused by the per.
cipient in a state of somnambulism. Dr. Beith himself was at first
inclined to attribute his experience to nightmare, Ilnd it is evident that
he is by no means clear that he was actually awake until after the
occurrence.
G. 174.
[This event took place in the August of 1845. Dr. Beith had been chosen
by the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland, together with Drs.
Candlish and M'Kellar, to make a tour of the Highlands and report on the
condition of the adherents of the Free Church in that district, who were
at the time ill·cared for by the State. Dr. Bcith was, on this occasion.
Digitized by Google
1889.] f7'oll~ .A.notlLer -Point of View. 245
the guest of Mr. Lillingston, of Lochalsh, Ro88-shire, for the evening.
After talking for some time with his host he W88 shown to a large bedroom
on the top flat of the house. Mr. and Mrs. Lillingston slept on the
ground floor, so that betwl'en their bedroom and his the drawing-room floor
intervened. At the foot of Dr. Beith's bed was a laloge fireplace, in which the
dancing firelight flung shadows on the curtains. Being very weary he lOon
fell asleep.]
I had gone to bed. After a little I fell asleep, and I slept I know llot
how lung. Suddenly I was awakened by what I imagined was a loud knock
at my door. I opened my eylls. The fire was still bunting; but W88 about
to expire. I called, "Come in." No sooner had I done so than I 11&wthe door
slowly open. A man of gigantic stature, of huge proportions, red-haired,
balf-dressed, his brawny arms bare high abuve tho elbows, presented himself
to my view. I saw him distinctly advance, not t.owards me, but direct to tho
fireplace, the glimmering light from the grate falling on his massive frame.
He carried a large black chest, which appcnred to me to be studded with bra88
nails and to be so heavy as to tax to the utmost his strength, strong 1I1an as
he W3S. I saw him }188S the foot of my bed as if turning to the side of the
fire next the bed. The black chest seemed to grow into a coffin of dread
dimensions. In that fonn I saw it but for a moment. My bed-curtain almost
instantly concealed from my eyes the bearer and his burden. He set it down
with a crash which startled me, as I thought, and which seemed to shake the
house, and, as I believed, fairly roused me. I tried to look round to the
fireplace, but saw nothing. Everything was as I had left it on going into
bed. The vision had pas.~ed. In whatever condition I had been previously,
I felt confident I WIlS by that time thoroughly awake. Reflecting 011 the
incident, I soon set the whole thing dOWll to a fit of nightmare, brought on,
perhaps, by the conversation in which I had been so deeply interested before
rdtiring to rest, and which had somewhat excited my nervous system. III a.
.bort time I had got over my agitation and was composing myself to Bleep,
when I again suddenly hea.r(1 a. knock at my door. I rrused myself on my
elbow with a resolution to be a.t the bottom of it, and snid firmly, perhaps
fiercely, .. Come in." The door opened and Mr. Lillingston appeared in his
dr088ing-gown, a light ill his hand. As he was in figure tall, though not
robust, and of a reddish complexion, his appearllllce slightly resembled what
I had pre\'iously seen. "Have you been ill?" " No; I am quite well."
"lIavc you been out of bed 1" "No; I certainly have not since I lay
dow11. " "Mrs. Lillingston and I have been disturbed by hearing heavy
steps in your room, as we thought, and by the sound of the falling of some
weighty article on the floor."
[At the breakfast-table next morning the engrossing sul)ject of conversa-
tion was the noise in Dr. Beith'a room. He di(l not tell what he had seen.
The room was examined lest some article of furniture or a picture might
have fallen, but both in it and in the drawing-roum below everything was ill
its place undisturbed. Dr. Beith goes on to 8I\y :--]
I would have forgotten it altogether, but the succession of deaths in
our family, just a year after-four childron, as already noted, being taken
from us within a few weeks-brought up the remembrance of what I had
seen; and I felt a strange-an unreasonable inclination,I am willing to admit
a
Digitized by Google
246 PhanictsTilS of tlte Dead [SOy. 2!),
-to connect the two things, and to conclude that what I had witnessed, in
the Balmacam attic, was a kindly presentiment or pre-intimation of sorruw
to come.
I called on Dr. Beith on Sunday, September 14th, 1884, and heard
an account of the story as above given from his own lips.
Dr. Beith beliues himself to have been awake at t.he time the figure
entered the room. He is quite clear that he did not go to sleep in the
interval between the disappearance of the figure and the entrance of
Mr. Lillingston.
I asked him if it were possible for the whole thing to have been a.
trick. He explained to me that the room was a very large one, with
the door in the corner opposite to the bed, so that no one could enter or
leave the room without being seen. The fireplace was by the side of
the bed, whose cUI·tains hid it, but when he Sl\t up in bed and looked
round the curtains he satisfied himself that the figure was not there.
He has never experienced a hallucination, or seen anything else of
the kind. He has, however, had other psychical experiences. Dr.
Beith had never heard of any other unusual experience in the house.
Another case of an isolated phant.asm is, perhaps, worth quoting
as a curious example of the survival of a OIedireval superstition. Thel'e
is no need here to look beyond the emotional condition of the percipient
for the origin of the hallucination, its precise form being determined
by her intellectual inheritance and f'nvironment. The story is in the
words of the clergyman who visited the dying woman.
G.I04.
.A"!lust 2211d, 1884.
I wa.s once Bent for tu sec a dying old woman, who, her daughter who
came to me said, Imd something to say before she died. I saw that tho
daughter, a middle·aged woman, was full of curiosity to know what her mother
had to say. When I got to the bedside of the old woman, 1 endeln'oured to
persuade her that I did not want to hear anything, and told the daughter
that she should not trouble her mother by insilltillg upon hearing something
out of mere curiosity, but she kept saying. "Mother, you know you said
you would tell it, you promised," &C. Thus tensed into mnking a confession,
she, in almost her last breath, said that after the funeral of her husbaml
she roturned to their bedroolll, and (I use her very words) "I su.w a man
C0ll10 down that chimlcy, and a better looking llIan you ne,'er saw, and he
said, 'If you will sene me you shall neYer want.'" I gathered that sho
believed this to be the devil, and she resisted his offer. 'rhis proves to me
that monkish legends of such apparitions are not necessarily lies of thoso who
first gave them. The poor widow was in a frenzy of desolation, and Sut..mic
suggestions took a shape, or she fancied they did, and made a lasting im-
pression upon her mind. This story happened 30 years ago, and all old
woman then, in thut class of life, would retain much of the ignorance of the
uneducated in the lust century.
Passing from these cases of apparently unshared hallucinatioll,which,
1889.] from, Another Po·ifif. 0/ View. 247
on the view now propounded, may be taken as the rAW ma.terialof ghost
stories, we come to a class of cases where a phantasm is witnessed by two
or more persons simultaneously. There is, so far as I am awal'e, no
evidence for collective hallucination in the normal state outside the phe-
nomena which we are now discussing; and it is always open to the critic
to maintain that the fact that a percept is shared by more than one
person is in itself a proof of its claim to objective reality of some kind.
Such a critic, however, it may be pointed out, will have to claim an
objective existence not merely for apparitions resembling the huma.n
figure, but for the bull seen by Mr. and Mrs. Potter, the spectral cats
and dogs, the con.ch and horses, and the mysterious lights seen by
other witnesses. But, at all events, collective hallucination may be
accepted as a working hypothesis, and if it is found to fit the facts, it
will have advanced one step nearer to acceptance as a vera causa.l
It is interesting to note, moreover, as bearing upon the question of the
tl'ansference of hallucinations, two cases in which contact or "icinity,
as in some of our own experiments in thought-transference, appears to
have inftuenced the result. In G. 118 a curious phantasmagoria-
a "witch fire" with people dancing round it-which is witnessed by
several persons, disappears on the approach of a man" who, being
born in March, can never see them." And in another story (G.
636), which, however, is second-hand, the narrator's mother is said
to have seen the figure of a man, "but my father protested that he
did not see anybody. This surprised my mother, and, laying her hand
on my father's shoulder, she said, 'Oh, George! do you not see him 1'
:My father thereupon exclaimed, 'I see him now! ' "
It will, however, no doubt, be readily admitted that if, as suggested
by Mr. Gurney, a casual hallucination, originating in the mind of one
percipient, may by some process of telepathy be transferred to others
in his immediate vicinity, so that they also should share in his percep-
tion, the following ara instances of such collective hallucinations.
The first narrative comes from Mrs. Stone, of Walditch, Bridport,
from whom Professor Sidgwick received a 'Viva voce account of the
incident.
G.20.
The dllte is a little uncertain, but I think it was the summer of 1830. My
cousin Emily was staying with me, and my friend, Mary J., was spending the
day with us. Emily said, "How pleaSllnt it would be to drive overalld drink
tea with my father and the girls this lovely afternoon. " In a very shorttime
we were driving in 1\ little four-wheeled carriage to my uncle's vicarage, at
Sydling,about seven miles from Dorchester. They were all at home, delighted
1 The question has been c:uefully examined by Mr. Gurney in Phantluml of the
Livin!l, Yolo II., pp. 168-270. See also Mr. Myers' note, pp. 277-284.
a 2
Digitized by Google
248 Phaniasr/1,8 of the Dead [Nov. 29.
to see us. and we spent a most delightful evening. As there was no moon
we left early enough to reach home before dark. A most beautiful evening
it was, and three more merry girls could hardly be met with. Just after
paBBing Wrackleford the road is rather elevated. It had boen somewhat
dusky before, but here the evening glow showed t.he hedgeH, road, and all
near objects. There it was that I saw the figure of a man on the right.-hand
side, walking, or rather gliding. at the head of the horse. My first idea was
that he meant to stop us, but he made no effort of the kind, but kept on the
same pace 1\8 the horse, neither faster nor slower. At first I thought him of
great height, but afterwards remarked that he was gliding some distance (at
least afoot) above the ground. Mary was sitting by me. I pointed out in a
low voice the figure, but she did not see it, and could not at any time during
its appearance. Emily was sitting by the man-servant on the front seat; she
beard what I said. turned round. and speaking softly, "I see the man you
mention distinctly." Then the man-servant Aid in an awful. frightened
voice, "For God·s sake, ladies, don't say anything! please keep quiet!" or
words to that effect. I had heard that horses and other animals feel the
presence of the supernatural; in this instance there wall no starting or bolt-
ing; the creaturo went on at an even pace, almost giving the idea of being
controlled by the figure. The face was turnerl away, but the shape of a man
in dark clothing was clearly defined. At the entrance of the village of Char-
minster it vanished. and we saw it no more; though in passing through the
dark parts of the road, then shadowed with elms, I looked round in some
little trepidation. We could never get much out of the man-servant, except
that it was a gh03t. It has struck me since whether he knew more about it
than he chose to say. He was more terrified at the time than either of us. I
never heard the road was haunted.
P.S.- My cousin and the man-servant saw it distinctly. but my friend
was unable to do so, though the figure stood out plainly against the evening
light.
In January, 1883, Mrs. Stone adds:-
My cousin Elllily is not living. I havo lost sight of the man-servant for
mauy years.
Miss Henrietta Coombs writes, ill August. 1883:-
In the summer of 1856 I was driving in a pony-carriage on the Wrackle-
ford road, when just on the brow of tho little hill, before reaching the dairy-
110uge, the pony stopped short and shook all over, as if violently frightened.
I expected it to start off, and I got out quickly, as did my cousin who was
with me, the driver remaining in the carriage. My cousin, a military man,
.and accustomed to horses, examined the pony and could find no cause for
its alarm or illness. It went on very well afterwards, and I never heard that
-it had a similar attack, either before or after that time. I had forgotten the
occurrence until I heard Mrll. Stone speak of the appearance she saw many
years before, when I exclaimed, "That must be the place where our pony
was frightened in '56."
In this case, it will be observed, one of the persons present saw
Digitized by Google
1889.] from Another Point of View. 249
nothing unusual, a circumstance which tells strongly in favour of the
view that the thing seen was of a hallucinatory nature.
The next account was given to us, withiu a few weeks of the occur-
rence narrated, by the two ladies named, with one of whom I ha.ve ha.d·
1\ personal interview.
G. 185.
From Mrs. Knott, London, S.W.
Marcil. 5th, 1889.
The incident I relate occurred at this address early in February, 1889. I
have lived in this house four years and constantly felt another presence
was in the drawing-room besides myself, but never latO any form until last
month. My cousin Mrs. R. and myself returned from a walk at 1.30 p.m.
The front door was opened for us by my housekeeper, Mrs. E. I passed
upstairs before my cousin, and onlurning to my bedroom, the door of which
is beside the drawing-room door [i.e., at right angles to it], I saw, as I
thought, Mrs. E. go into the drawing-room. I put a parcel into my room
and then followed her to give some order, and found the room empty! My
cousin was going up the second flight of stairs to her room, and I called
out, "Did you op:m the drawing-room door I\S you passed 1" "No," she
replied, "Mrs. E. has gone in." Mrs. R. had seen the figure more dis-
tincdy than I; it seemed to pass her at the top of the stairs, and she
thought "How quietly Mrs. E. moves." I inquired of Mrs. E. what she
did after opening the door for u~, and she said, "Went to the kitehen to
hasten luncheon as you were in a hurry for it." The day was bright and
there is nothing on the stairs that could cast a shadow. I quite hope some
day I may see the face of the figure.
From Mrs. R., Malpas, Cheshire.
March 1st, 1889.
III answer to your letter on the subject oithe figure scen at C.-terrace,
Mrs. K. and I had just come in at about half-past one o'clock. Mrs. E. (the
housekeeper) had opened the door. We went upstairs, and on the first land-
ing are two rooms,one the drawing-room, the other Mrs. K. 's bedroom. She
went into her room while I stood a minute or two talking to her. Just as I
turned to go up the llext flight of stairs I thought I saw l\lrs. E. pass me
quicklyand go into the drawing-room. Beyond seeing a slight figure in a
dark dress I saw nothing more, for I did not look at it, but just saw it pass
me. Before I had got upstairs Mrs. K. called out, II Did you leavo
the drawing-room door open 1" I answered, "I did IIOt go ill; I
MW Mrs. E. go in.It Mrs. K. answered, "There is nobody there."
\Ve asked Mrs. E. if she had b~en up; she, on the contrsry, had gone
straight down. Also, as she said. she would not have passed me on the
landing, but have waited until I had gone upstairs; and as it struck me
Gfterwarrb, she could not have passed me on such a small landing without
touching me, but I never noticed that at the time. I do not know if a
thought ever embodies itself, but my idea was, and is, that as Mrs. E.
ran downstairs her thought went up, wondering if thc drawing-room fire
Digitized by Google
250 Phantasm8 of tlte Dead [Nov. 29,
was burning brightly. The figure I saw went into the room 88 if it bad
a purpose of some sort. I have never seen anything of the sort before.
From :Mrs. R.
Marck 10th, 1889.
I am afraid I cannot give any very definite reply to your questioIl8.
(1) "Had I any idea of the house being haunted 1" No; and I do not
think it is supposed to be haunted. Mrs. K. has said that at tilDes it has
seemed to her 88 if there W88 someone else in the room besides herself, but I
think that is a feeling that has come to most people some time or other.
(2) "Did we see it simultaneously 1" That I cannot exactly say, but I
should think yes, for we neither of us said anything till Mrs. K. called out
to me to know if I had been in the drawing-room.
I called on :Mrs. Knott with :MajorJebb, on February 27th, IS89,and
heard her account of the incident, and inspected the landing where the
figure was seen. The landing is very small and narrow, but well
lighted by a wide uncurtained window at the top of the stairway.
between the first and second floors. The figure was seen on the first
floor. A real person could not have passed the two ladies on the stairs
without considerable difficulty, and it seems impossible that a real
person could have passed out of the room again without detection.
Mrs. Knott has occupied rooms in the same house for about three
and a-half years.
Here we may almost see the story of a haunted house in the making.
The essential elements are there. We have the visionary figure seen by
two persons at once, and the mysterious feeling of I\n alien presence in
the room. It is quite possible that the latter circumstance would have
passed unrecorded, and even unnoticed, but for the subsequent phantasm,
through which it gained a retrospective importance. It is not im-
probable that in this case the phantasm was a hallucination actually
generated by the same state which gave rise to the eerie feelings; as in
other cases the phantasm may have been the product of the uneasiness
and vague alarm caused by inexplicable noises. That there is a con-
stant tendency for mysterious sounds to bring visual hallucinations in
their trn.in we see in many of the stories. And what the experience of
the moment has failed to produce, the narra.tor's imagination after the
lapse of many years may sometimes prove competent to supply. In the
story, for instance, printed in the Journal, Vol. II., pp. 385, et seq.,
(G. 182), to which I have already referred (p. 237), the only pheno-
mena recorded on first-hand evidence are auditory. But the narrative
Qriginally appeared in a. newspaper, a.nd as there printed contained
an account at first-hand of an apparition of the orthodox kind-
s figure in military uniform, gaunt and haggard. But the per-
cipient was only a child at the time of the alleged appearnnce, and
the account was published nearly half a century afterwards. In correct-
Digitized by Google
1889.] from A1Wthel' Point of View, 251
ing his narrative for us he requested that this episode might be omitted.
With a witness a little less conscientious or a little more imaginative,
the figure might have remained as the brightest ornament of the story.
The weakness of second-hand testimony to apparitions is also well
exemplified in this story. The same witness reported two other
appearances of a headless woman at second-hand. But on going to the
()riginal sources, we find that in neither case was anything Been,. Do
horrible presence was felt on one occasion, and steps were heard leaving
the room on the other.
The following case (G. 186) presents in many respects a typical
insta.nce of a good haunted house, and I therefore welcomed the oppor-
tunity afl'ordt'd me in 1888 of sleeping in the house, and of introducing
other members of the f?ociety. This unfortunately, however, led
to no result. The case is, as it will be seen, very recent, and
apparitions seem to have been seen independently by two people.
Altogether, if any of these cases of wholly unrecognised apparitions
haunting houses are to be attributed to pOBt-mortem agencies this would
have a fair claim to such origin. I am myself, however, disposed to
adopt the explanation above suggested, viz., that the figures seen were
hallucinations, due to alarm caused by mysterious sounds.
G. 186. From Mrs. G., the landlady of a London lodging-house.
May 15th, 1888.
I came into this house at the end of September, 1887. On the first night
1 slept with a friend in the back drawing-room. We both heard iathe course
of the night a rustling Bound in the front room, 811 if several ladies in silk
dreBIeII were walking l'OIlnd the room.
On several occasionB after this, when sleeping in the little room on the
second floor, facing the top of the stairs, I heard theBe rustling noises again,
and a noise as if several people were coming upstairs. 1 remember once
thinking Mr. Guthrie had brought sODie people home to sleep, and wondering
what they would find to eat for breakfast. At the same time 1 saw a faint
greenish light, as if from a Bame which I could not see, coming up the stairs
and disappearing into Mr. Guthrie's room. Once I thought (I W811 sleeping
with my door open then) thRt 1 heard someone come into the room, breathing
very heavily, like a pig. 1 did not speak. The next morning Mr. Guthrie
asked what 1 was doing ill their room the night before, and 1 said, "I W811 just
going to Rsk you the same question." He told me he had not been into my
roolll. After this 1 got frightened and locked my door, and then 1 used to
leave two candles alight in the room whilst 1 slept.
One Tuesday night, about the end of November, 1 think, 1 woke up
at 1 a.m. with a feeling that someone W811 iu the room. 1 had my face
to the wall, but 1 tunled round and uw between the bed and wall [a dis-
tance of three or four feet onlyJ, just opposite to me, the figure of a woman
apparently about fifty, dark hairand eyes, a red dre88 and a mob cap. I looked
at her and asked her what she wanted. She bent her head Blowly back,
and 1 saw what 1 thought at first was a very wide mouth. Then I saw that
Digitized by Google
252 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29t
her throat was cut. I was very frightenod, the perspiration came out on me
like peas, and I called out to her in the name of the Father, tJte Son, and
the Holy Ghost, to go away. She did not stir, however, and I remained
looking at her by the light of the two candles in the room, too frightened at
first to put out my hand and rap on the partition with the stick which Mr.
Guthrie had lent me for the purpose. At last I managed to give two quiet.
knocks. Then I heard the two gentlemen knocking at my door, and the
figure slowly vanished like a shadow. I got out of bed all shaking and
trembling, and went with them downstairs and spent the rest of the night in
the drawing-room. My bedroom on the second floor has remained empty
since.
From 1\Ir. I. Guthrie, a. lodger in the house.
May 10th, 1888.
The curious circumstance which you have asked me to relate hap-
pened between the bours of one and two in the monling about Christ.mas
time.
On the night referred to I lay down to rest about my usual time, between
11 and 12. About the time mentioned I awoke suddenly to hear the
noise as of a person in a silk dreBS moving away quietly from the side of my
bod. It continued moving until I heard it stop in the adjoining bedroom.
Immediately the sound stopped I heard the woman who was sleeping in
that room begin to speak; it was, to me, as if she was trying to wake her
little son, aged nine, who Klept with her. All this time I was conscious that
our old friend the ghost, seen before and expected again, had once more
condescended to visit us. But a strange weakneBS ill the legs, to which I am
subject in moments like these, prevented my rising until a hurried knocking-
-not very loud-was heard on the wall. At the sound my strength came
back to me, and I sprang out of bed, pulled my brother out of his bed,
opened the hl"O doors leading to [the }JI\BS&ge and] the door of the next bed-
. room, at which we knocked. It was at once opened to us, and the woman
appeared carrying a lighted candle in her hand, and in a state of extreme
agitation bordering 011 prostration. She was trembling so much that she
was scarcely able to stand; the perapiratioll rolled from her in great dro}J3.
The small room WIIS completely illuminated by two or three candles. Her
story was as follows :-
She awoke hearing movements as of a person fumbling about tho room.
Onlooking up she saw by the side of her bed a woman standing in a red dreBS,
seemingly about 50 years of age, and with a curious cap on. She fell to
praying and addressed the apparition. When at length she had gained tho
courage to knock and we were to be heard approaching the door, the apll"ri-
tion leaned back against the wall and seemed to fado away, showing at the
same time a deep cut acroBS the throat almost separating the head from the
torso.
My brother and I, after seeing to the safety of tho woman, searched the
whole house thoroughly, but without effect, as wo could 8ee and hear nothing.
At this distance of time I can remember a curious dancing light which
we noticed on the stairs nnd which we remarked at the time, but did
not trace it.
Tilo stl'angeneas of the foregoing lies in tho fact that the woman and I
Digitized by Google
1889.] f1'om, .Another Point of View. 253
were both awakened at the BalDe time by the BalDe noise, that I should hear
the noise going to her room and stopping there, and that she should hear the
sound as in her room. Her story appeared to me to agree perfectly with
what I heard and what I felt was going on iu her room.
We came into the house in Oct-ober, 1887, and for the first four months I
and others had been troubled with noises (especially in my case the silk dress
sound) and mysterious awakenings during the night. Someone in every
room in the house complained similarly. On two occasions at least-one I
can swear to-I am perfectly certain I BaW an apparition in my room. I
was mysteriously awakened in the usual manner, and on lifting my eyes BaW
distinctly in the middle of the room a moderately tall female form, clearly
defilled and dark as of a real body, which on my looking at it moved towards
IDe down the room and out through the closed doors, the rustling noise dying
away in the distance. I have not seen or heard anything fo\' some months,
but lately there bave again been complaints from others in the house.
This, in brief, is my account.
I. GUTHRIE.
J1I11e 26th, 1888.
In reply to your two questions I beg to inform you that never had I reasou
to suppose I had heard or seen anything supernatural before October last.
I. GUTH1UE.
From Mr. D. Guthrie.
May 15th, 1888.
In consequence of the noises that had been heard by my brother, the
landlady, and others, we had been sleeping with swords by our sides for
several nights previous to the night I am writing about. On that night I
was awakened by nlY brother, who thl"eW the bedclothes from me, exclaiming,
to the best of my recollection, "I've seen it." Since then, I must tell you,
he says he didn't say so and didu't see it, only felt conscious of it and heard
it. This is, however, my account of the afthlr-not his. As I sprang out of
bed I heard my landlady speaking in a strange manner in her own room,
which is separated from mine by a wooden partition. lrly brother and I lit
a candle; opening the two doors and reaching the landing was the work of
an instant, and standing on the landing I distinctly saw a wavering light,
like the reflection of, say, sunlight, moving down the staircase wall. As soon
as our landlady could present herself she opened her door, which was locked,
8S both of oura had been; when she appeared she was trembling from heall
to foot, and with perspiration dropping from her face. She had all the
appearance of a person who has just seen an awful sight. We saw her down
to the drawing-room door, which was also locked when she got to it, and
made a considerable noise in opening, and we then proceeded with candles
and swords to search the house, which we did from top to bottom, with the
exception of the drawing-room, which had been locked, and Miss H.'s bed-
room, which was inaccessible to us, but we looked round the sitting-room
adjoining. All our searching proved fruitlell8, and the mystery of the light
is as yet unexplained.
The noises and apparition I have never been favoured with, and but for
having seen the light I would never have given the subject a second thought;
.~.
Digitized by Google
Phanta8m8 of the Dead [.Nov. 2a,
but I feel confident that that light W&8 not caused by the reflection of our
caudle, and am unable to suggest any solution of it that would be satisfactory
to myself.
D. GCTBRlE.
May 17th, 1888.
As far as I remember my brother laW a dark figure (woman's) move
down the centre of the room, approa.ching fronl the window to the door and
rustling p8IIt hilll. He wakened with what ho calls the" feeling" that some-
thing W&8 about the room, and immediately this figure began to move toward&
his bed and P&8t it.
D. GUTHRIE.
May 28th, 1888.
It is imp088ible for me to remember when my brother told lIle. He would
be Iikaliest to speak to me about it when we were dressing next morning,
but I am not prepared to 888ert that he did 80.
D. GUTHRJJ!:.
From Miss H.
May 28th) 1888.
According to your request that I should give you au account of what I
heard on the night referred to in the account you havo receh"ed already
from my aunt Li.e., tho first night spent in the house].
As far a9 I remember I was awakened by a strange noise, like the rustling
of silk, or silk handkerchiefs.
I was too ~ I ell to look up at the time, and caunot remember when
I fell asleep again. This 1ms been rep I tad aevcral times since.
JUlie 28'''.1888.
On Wednesday last., the 20th inst., I went to bed at about my usual time,
11.30 p.m. or a little later, and, as far a8 I know, in my u8ual health. My
aunt, Mrs. G., and I occupy one bed, she sleeping next to t.he wall. I
suddenly woke up, to find myself sitting upright in bed. I have no recollec-
tion of having been dreaming. It was just beginning to dawn (the time, &8
I found out afterwards, must have been between 2 and 3 a.m.), and I 8I\W,
standing up so near thatI could have touched it, a tall woman's figure dressed
in black, so that I could distinguish no features. I was rather frightened, and
spoke to my auut and tried to wake her, but could not succeed. The figure
moved slowly away from me towards the window (the bed faced the window)
and finally disal'peared, &8 it ware into the strip of wall between the window
and the fireplace. I did not get to sleep again for some time. After about
an hour, as near as I cau judge, I got up to see what the time W&8 and found
it W&8 just 4 a.lD. After my aunt got up, about 5 11..111., I dropped off to
sleep again.
I had, of course, heard what Mr. Guthrie saw, and what my aunt 8I\W,
before Christmas. But I don't, think that my mind had been dwelling upon
it at all lately; indeed, I had almost forgotten it. Aud until this week I
had hardly known anything about the people who wero coming to sleep in
my aunt's old room, so I don't think there was anything to call up the ida.
Digitized by Google
1859.] fl'om ·.Another Point of View. 255
of tho ghost in my mind. I WI\8 quito well, too, and I had never Been anything
else of the kind. I never remember to have either Been or heard anytlling
except in this house-anything that WI\8 not really there.
I have not heard any of the noises lately, not Bince Christmas in
fact.
[Signed ill full] M.E.H.
Mrs. O. atated that th3se inexplicable noises had been heard by two
successive lodgen on the drawing-room floor, and that the first had
left in consequence. The other at the beginning of May, 1888, told
Mrs. G. that she hrut seen an apparition-the figure of a woman
in a red dress-in her bedroom "in the course of the previous night.
'Ve have not been able to trace either of these persons.
. It will be observed that noises, which may have been due to normal
causes, had been prevalent in the house throughout its occupation by
the narrators, who appear to have been considembly disturbed by
them. Indeed, that the landlady had been much alatWed. is proved by
the fact that Mr. Guthrie had lent her a stick to rap the .....u. in case
she should be again disturbed in the night. Mrs. G.'s vision and Jlr.
Guthrie's are apparently independent. Miss H., however, saw nothiug
until long after, when the experiences of the others had been mattel'
of common talk in the household for months. Her evidence cannot,
therefore, be considered as possessing much corroborative value. More-
over, the apparition differed materially from that seen by Mrs. G. It
should, however, be stated as regards both this case and that which
immediately follows, as a fact of some importance in assessing the
part played by expectancy in generating hallucination, that many
members and associates of the Society for Psychical Research and
friends introduced by them have slept in both houses, in some cases for
several nights consecutively, with a full knowledge that inexplicable
phenomena had been recently observed. Nothing unusual has, how-
ever, been seen in either house by any person connected with the
Society; nor, with one or two doubtful exceptions, have any inexplic-
able sounds been heard.1 The same may be said of the houses described
in the Journal, Vol. II., pp. 196, et seq., and Vol. IlL, pp. 241, et seq.
(G.t. 314). This fact, however, will appeal' less significant if we
bear in mind that, as our evidence in this and other directions
tends to show, the proportion of persons who are readily susceptible to
impressions of this kind is not very large; and that the persons who are
most sensitive would, it is certain, in most cases be unwilling to expose
themselves to such an ordeal as sleeping in a " haunted" house.
The following case (G. l8i) is remarkable because two successive
sets of occupants of the house, without any communication with each
I Eee Appendix.
Digitized by Google
256 Pl~anta81n8 of the Dead [Nov. 29.
other, or any conscious knowledge 011 the part of the second set that
the first set had had experiences, were "haunted" by sounds and sights.
The whole has occurred since 1882. We have the first-hand testimony
of most of the principal witnesses, and have had the opportunity of
talking over their experiences with them. One tenant was fairly driven
out of the house by the "ghosts." Here, too, there is a recent and
well-evidenced tragedy, though its connection with the apparitions and
noises is not very clearly established, and does not, I think, make very
strongly for the hypothesis of post-mortem agency. The first account
comes to us from Miss L. :Morris,whose address is withheld lest it should
lead to the identification of the house. Miss Morris writes in June,
1888:-
G.18i. JUlie, 1888.
It was at the latter end of October, 1882, that we decided on taking a
small house on a lease, looking forward to taking possession of it and
furnishing it, with great expectations of future happiness, and longing for
the day to como to enter it. On the day in question we arrived late in the
afternoon, and occupied ourselves in arranging and putting finishing touches
to the furniture, amusing oU1'llelves, and laughing, as we were in high spirits
over our luck in finding just the little house to suit us. That sallie evening,
about a quarter to 10, I happened to be alone in the front drawing-room,
when for the first time in my life I heard, without seeing anyone, heavy foot-
steps tramping round the drawing-room table, at which I was reading.
Naturally I was surprised, as I had never read or believed in anything super-
natural. A few minutes later my eldest sister comes and sits by my sille,
when suddenly she exclaims, turning pale, "Charlotte, there is some one who
has got into the house, walking about upstairs. I heard such a noise, like 1\
door banging to." We were alolle at the time, excepting a little child
sleeping above, and my sister hall never fancied such a thing before. I
replied, "Oh, it's fancy." "No, I heard it again; listen!" At which I
said, "I will take up the poker with my lamp; you come too, and we will
see. " " No," she said, "I am afraid to go up, and will stop here." So
saying in fun, "I will go, and not be afraid, though 10,000 men are
against me !" I ftew upstairs, and searched everywhere-discovered nothing
-descended alone to the basement, but with the same result.
\Ve laugqed at our fears, and went to our rooms,but that night I could not
sleep at all, for incessantly round and round the room, and up and down the
stairs, I heard these ceaseless and lInwearying footsteps. I slept, and they
woke me again, making me light my Clmdle, and look about me, and outside
the room,to see if I could discover the reason for the strange ounds. Putting
it down to noises in the adjacent house, I blew out my light, and again closed
my eyes, but was nwoke nil hour after by feeling someone ill the room, and
again hearing the measured footsteps. I controlled my fears by not lighting
my candle, and tried, though in vain, to sleep. I said nothing about the
occurrence to anyone the next day, but kept what I thought must have been
fancy to myself. Still, the same experience happened to me each night, till
I got accustomed to it, not allowing myself to give way to Cears which,
Digitized by Google
1889.] jl'Ont A notlter Point of View. 257
because unseen, could not be explained, till an experience most un-
foreseen and strange occurred.
It was three weeks since we had occupied the house and it was about five
o'clock one aftenlOon in November, and so light that I had no need of the
gas to enable me to read clearly some music I was practising, and which
engrossed my whole attention and thought. Having forgotten some new
waltzes I had laid on the music shelf in the back drawing-room, I left the
piano, and went dancing gaily along, singing a song as I went, when suddenly
there stood before me, preventing me getting the music, the figure of a
woman, heavily robed in deepest black from the head to her feet; her face
was intensely sad and deadly pale. There she stood, gazing fixedly at me.
The song died on my lips; the door, I saw, was firmly closed where sho
stood, and still I could not speak. At last I exclaimed," Oil, auntie, I
thought it was you!" believing at the moment !!he or some strange visitor
stood before me, when suddenly she vanished.
Thinking it was a trick practised on me, and trembling violently, I went
back, not getting the waltzes, to my piano, which I closed, and rushing
upstairs, found my aunt alone in her room, my sisters and the servant being
out. "Did you not come into the drawing-room 1" I asked her. " No,"
she replied, "I have never left my room; I am coming down now, though."
As we were alone, I saw no trick had been played upon me, and my strange
vision was not imagination.
Not wishing to alann my aunl;, I did not communicate my strsngo experi-
ence to her, nor did I relate it subsequently to my sisters or any friends,
thinking, as they could not account for it, they would not believe me if I did,
so I kept it as a secret for three years, though I longed to disclose it to somo
friend who would believe me, and not make fun at what troubled me so
much; when another, though different, circumstance occurred, which puzzled
us all, and which we have never yet proved.
It was in June, 1884, that our hall-door bell began to ring incessantly and
violently. We hall frequently heard at intervals a ring, and discovered no
one was at tho door, but this especially annoyed us, and puzzlell everyone
insille and outside the house by the noise repeatedly made. We had always
put it down to "a runaway ring" and took no notice, but for three weeks,
at intervals of a quarter of an hour or half an hour, it rang unceasingly, and
such peals, it electrified us. We put ourselves on guard aull carefully watched,
balieving it a trick. 'Ve had everyone up from the basement, out of connec-
tion with the wire, in the front drawing-room, and placed the hall door and
our doors wide open ; it was the same result: loud and piercing peals from
the bell, which, at last, after three weeks, we had taken off, when we saw the
wire in connection with it vibrated as if the bell was attached to it. There
were also loud knocks at the door, and no one there when we wcnt to answer;
nnd I repeatedly heard loud knocks at my own room door the whole time I was
in the house. Though my aunt could not understand the communication I
related to her, she would not believe me, and laughed at my "imaginativo
fancies." A few afternoons later, I was having tea with her (we had sent
our maid out shopping) when she exclaimed, "There's 1\ double knock at the
door." I ran to open it ; on my way along, I noticecl the front and back
drawing-room doors were firmly closed, as I remembered shutting them as
Digitized by Google
258 Phamta8rll,8 of the Deael [Nov. 29,
usual when we took tea in the breakfast-roont adjoining. On answering the
door, no one was there, and on returning, I found the back drawing-room
door half wide open. I exclaimed to my aunt, •• Oh, you have been in the
drawing-room!" •• I have never got up from the table," she said. I replied.
"The door was wide open which I shut!" to which she 8R.id, .. What non-
sense will you be talking next1" and there the matter dropped.
A few months later I had gone to rest. It was about 2 a.m. I was
awoke by a tremendous knock at my door, and the handle turning. Having
a light I sprang out of bed, being close to the door, angry, and being deter-
mined to catch whoever it might be. No one was there! and on looking
across to my sisters' room I 8R.W their door was wide open. Believing it
was a trick on their part, and being annoyed at having been disturbed, I
waited till the next morning, when I accused them of the trick, but was
amazed to find they had been startled in the same way, and put it down to
a dog llaving opened their door, but they found he wasl\llleep, and they 111\(1
previously heard footsteps, and were t()O frightened to move. They also
both heard the door opened. They 888ured me they had never come to my
door or knocked at it, and I could see they were too startled to be acting an
untruth. In fact, my sister, though older than I, would not 8leep alone in
that house by herself after.
Another occurrence happened a few months later in the year 1885, in the
wiuter. I was alone in the house with my aunt, and lll~d gone (the servant
being out) to fetch some wood from the kitchen cupboard. Having got all
I wanted to re-light the fire, which had gone out in the drawing-room, I
shut to the door and locked it, when from the inside came a tremendous
knock, which 80 startled me I quickly ran upstairs, when repeatedly, as if
beneath my feet from the cupboard, I felt loud knocks as plainly as at the
door I had just Cl08ed. I had previously laid and brought the supper, when
just before going to my aunt to 8R.y all was rcady, in the hall from tho.
kitchen into the housekeeper's room (front room on basement), I saw a
woman robad in black slowly and diatinctly walk. (It moved like gliding.)
She was walking before me, In it were, down in the hall. Believing it was
my aunt, I went straight to the drawing-room, and found her deeply
interested in her work-book, and found she. had not gone dow1lstairs that
evening. To hcr I did not communicatc this, as she was not well.
A little time after she fell ill, having long been su1i'ering, antI when a.
little later on we lost her to our grief, we left. the house altogether, as our
lease had expired just about that time j but I give my teatimony I never
kuew one happy day in it, for I could not forget the peculiar experiences so
frequently happening, and which scemed to haunt me wherever I went
a.bout in it, and which I accounted for by the comlllunication confided in
me by a friend of the fact of a woman ha.ving a few years back hung
herself there.
I saw ~liss L. Morris on July 9th, 1888. She explained t() me that
she and her aunt (dea.d) were the regular occupants of the house
from October, 1882, to December, 1886. Two sisters came to stay
occasionally, and slept, when they came, in the little" off" room on a.
lower level than the other bedrooms. She belie,'es that after theil"
Digitized by Google
1889.] from A?1othe,' Point of View. 251)
departure the house remained empty until :Mrs. G. took it. The tenant
before her was a Miss E. Miss L. Morris learnt from her that she
(Miss E.) had heard or seen nothing abnormal during her stay in the
house. 1\'[iss L. 1\'[orris,who is rather deaf, has had no other hallucinations.
She told me that they had the boards taken up to trace the cause, if
possible, of the bell-l'inging, but could discover nothing, She and her
sister had frequently watched the front door when the bell was ringing
violently. Miss E. 1\'[. :Morris told me of two occasions (one described
in Miss L. Morris's account) on which, when she and her other sister
were sleeping in the little back room, their door was opened in the
night at the same time that Miss L. Morris, sleeping in another room,
was disturbed by noises. l\Iiss E. M. Morris also confirmed her sister's
account of the bell ringing.
From December, 1886, until November of the following year the
house remained empty. It was then taken by Mrs. G., a widow lady
with two children, gids of about 9 and 10 respectively, and one
maid-servant. Mrs. G. had only come to X. about six months
before taking the house, and was entirely ignorant th~t anything
unusual had happened there. The account which follows, written at
Mr. Gurney's request, in June, 1888, was compiled with the help of a
diary, in which she had jotted down from day to day brief notices of any
unusual occurrence. This diary she kindly permitted me to inspect, and
some extracts from it, copied by me, are printed after the account.
The names gi\'en to the children in this account are fictitious, and
the same names have been substituted for the real ones in the extracts
fl'om the diary.
From Mrs. G.
It was towards the emi of November, 1887, I took a pretty house
in the South of England. I had never been in that locality
before, and knew 110 olle at all in that neighbourhood, although I had for
the last six months been living in another part of the town; my dear hus-
band, an officer in the army, dying there (he had been badly wounded in the
Mutiny), I resolved to go into a quieter part of the town and take a less
.expensive house.
We had not been more than a fortnight in our lIew home (it was in
December) when I was aroused by a deep sob and moan. " Oh," I thought,
" what has happened to the childrenl" I rushed in, their room Deing at
the back of mine; found them sleeping soundly. So back to bed I went,
when again another sob, alld such a thump of somebody or something very
beavy. .. 'Vhat can be the matter 1" I sat up in bed, looked all round the
room, then to my horror a voice (and a very sweet one) said, "Oh, do forgive
me ! " three times. I could stand it no more; I always kept the gas burn-
ing, turned it up, and went to the maid's room. She was fast asleep, so I
shook her well, and asked her to come into my room. Then in five minutes
the sobs and moans recommenced, and the heavy tramping of feet, and such
thWIlPS, like heavy boxes of plate being thrown about. She suggested 1
260 Phantas1fI.$ of the Dea(l [Nov. 29,
should ring the big bell I always keep in my room, but I did not like to
alarm the neighbourhood. "Oh, do, ma'am, I am sure there are burglars
next door, and they will come to us next." Anything but pleasant, on a
bitter cold night, standing bell in hand, a heavy one, too, awaiting a burglar.
Well, I told her to go to bed, nnd hearing nothing for half-~-hour, I got
into mine, nearly frozen with cold and fright. But no sooner had I got wann
than the sobs, moans, and noises commenced again. I heard the policeman's
steady step, and I thought of the words, .. What of the night, Watchman 1
what of the night 1" If he only could have known what we, a few paces off,
were going through. Three times I called Anne in, and then in the monling
it all died away in a low moan. Dircctly it was daylight, I looked in the
gl!\8S to see if my hair had tunle<l white from the awful night I spent. Very
relieved was I to find it still brown.
Of course nothing was said to the children, and I was hoping I should
never experience such a thing again. I liked the house, and the children
were so bonny. I had too much furniture for that small hol18O, so stowed it
away ill the room next to the kitchen, and we used the small room at the
top of the kitchen stairs as a dining-room, and then I had a pretty double
drawing-room, where I always stayed. Still the children had no play-room,
and no place (or their doves. I therefore had most of the furniture and boxes
taken out and put in the back kitchen. It seems from that day our troubles
commenced, for the children were often alarmed by noises and a crash of
something, and did not like sleeping alone. I felt a little uncomfortable,
and thought it was all rather strange, but had so much business affairs to
settle, having no one else to help me, that I had llot much time to think.
I was in the drawing-room deeply thinking about business mattors, when
I was startled by Edith giving such a Ilcream. I ran to the door, and found
her running up, followed by Florence amI the servant, the child so scared
and deadly white, and could hardly breathe. "Oh, Birdie dear, I have seen
such a dreadful white face peeping round the door! I only saw the head. I
was playing with Floss (dog), and looking up, I saw this dreadful thing.
Florence and Anne rushed in at once, but 1511w nothing. JJ I pacified them by
saying someone wa! playing a trick by a magic lantern, but after that for
months they would not go upstairs or down alone.
It was very tiresome, and thinking seriously over the matter. I resolved
to return my neighbour's call, which she honoured me with the day after t,he
first terrible night. I wa\ushered into the presence of two portly dames,
and I should think they nad arrived at that age not given to pranks. I
looked at them, and mentally thought, ., That sweet voice does not belong to
cither of you. JJ They infonued me they had lived in that house 18 years, so I
thought I might venture to ask whether anything had ever taken place of a
disagreeable nature in my house, as we were so constantly alarmed by heavy
noises, and that my eldest daughter. aged 10, had seen a dreadful white face
looking round the door at her, and of course I should be glad to know; that
as far as I was concerned, I feared nothing and no one, but if my children
were frightened I should leave, but I liked the house very much, and thought
perhaps I might buy it. They sl,id, "Don't do that, but there is nothing to
hurt you," and I saw sundry nods and winks,which meant more, 80 in des-
peratioll I said, "Won't you tell me what has occurred 1" .. Well, a few
Digitized by Google
1889.] from .Another Point of View. 261
years ago, the bells commenced to ring, and there was quite a commotion,
but then the former tenant, a Miss M., had a wicked servant." Tho other
dame replied, "I may say, a very wicked servant." Well, I could not get
much more, but of course I imagined this very wicked servant had done
something, and felt very uneasy.
On my return, Edith said, "Oh, dear, I have seen such a little woman
pass, and I often hear pitter patter i what is it 1 Of course magic lanterns
couldn't do that." So I said nothing, and said I was too tired to talk.
That night I felt a very creeping feeling of shivering, and thought I would
have Florence to sleep with me, so when I went to bed about 10, I carried
her in wrapped up in a shawl, leaving Edith asleep with the maid. It was
about 11 i I had tucked my little pet in and was about to prepare to go
to sleep, when it seemed as if something electric was in the room, and that
the ceiling and roof were coming on the top of us. The bed was shaken,
and such a thump of something very heavy. I resolved not to risk my
child's life again, for whatever it was came down on me, she would be safe in
the next room with the others, but I dreaded going to bed, as I never knew
what might happen before the morning.
We had a dreadful night, December 29th, such heavy thumps outside the
bedrooms, and went to Mr.W., the agent, intending to tell him we must leave,
or we should be bereft of our senses, but I was too late i the office was shut,
so I went to friends and asked them to come and sleep, as I really was too
unnerved to remain alone on New Year's Eve. They kindly came. Mrs. L.
said she heard knocks. They returned home the next morning, having a
young family to look after. I then wrote to a sister-in-law I was fond of at
Cheltenham, and she came for a week, but everything was quiet. January
18th, I heard three loud knocks at my bedroom door. I was too terrified to
speak for a minute, and then called out, "Who's there 1 What do you
want 1" My terror was intense, for I thought, supposing it is a burglar !
It was a great relief to hear the children call out: "Birdie, who is knocking
at your door 1" "I wish I could tell you." A fortnight previously I asked
a policeman on duty if he would see if anyone was in the empty house. He
came to tell me it was securely fastened, and no one could get in. Then I
suggested coiners under the houses, but he said they only go to old castles.
,•Well, then what is it 1" He said a sad occurrence had taken place some
years ago. I said, "Oh, dreadful I " but he was matter-of-fact was Police-
man X., and replied, "It is an every-day thing, and no doubt most of the
houses people lived in something has happened in." ,. But," I said, "this is
such a very strange house, and we have 110 rest either by day or night, and
why should this dreadful white face appear to my child 1" Well, he didn't
believe in ghosts. "Very well," I said, "will you kindly catch whoever it
is frightening us, and let them be well punished 1" "But, madam, I can't
catch nothing I" "Right, Policemall X., I knew that was impossible, but
what am I to do 1" So he suggested detectives, but that wouldn't do.
• • • I found that house very expensive, and I had to keep the gas
burning downstairs and up all night. I asked a young friend from
Richmond to stay, a clergyman's daughter. She laughed at such a thingas a
ghoet. We both went up the trap-door and explored the space over the bed-
room, and next to the roof i itwas very dark, but I took a candle, and then dis-
8
Digitized by Google
262 Phantasms oj tlte Dead [Nov. 29,
covered three holes as large as a plate between my house and the old ladies'.
The next morning I walked down to the landlord who owns both houses, and
told him again what we were continually going through and that I and
my children were getting ill, and that it was quite impossible to live in the
house. He came up on the following day, and told me that 1\ woman had
hanged herself, he thought, in the room the children slept in. The holes
were filled up, and I thought now nothing can come in to alarm us. What
puzzled my friend was that the two old dames being invalids should go out
in the Bnow and wet between 9 and 10 mORt nights in their garden ; it
certainly was odd, but, of course, they had a right to <to what they liked in
their own house, only they banged the back door; when Anne locked up she
scarcely made a sound.
Florence was often aaying to her eldest sister, "You see it was your
imagiMtion, for I never see anything." " 'Wait till you do, you won't forget
it !" The next morning, as Florence was passing the room on the stairs,
she aaw a man standing by the window staring fixedly; blue eyes, dark brown
hair, and freckles. She rushed up to me, looking very white and frightened;
the house was searched at once, and nothing seen.
I had forgotten to mention that the night after the knocks came to my
bedroom I resolved that the dog, who is very sharp, should sleep outside,
but oh, that was worse than all, for at a quarter past 12 I looked at my
clock. He commenced to cry, it was not exactly howling, and tore at the
carpet in a frantic manner. I threw my fur cloak on, threw the door wide
open, and demanded what was the matter. The poor little animal was so
delighted to see me j Jsaw he had biscuits and water, and the children were
then awake, and asked me why Floss was making that noise. I went to bed,
and in 10 minutes he recommenced. I went out three times. and then made
up my mind not to move again, for I felt so cold and angry.
Another night something seemed to walk to the children's door, and tum
the handle, walk up to the washstand, shake the bed, and walk out. It
really was enough to shake anyone's nerves. My sister and brother.in-law,
Mr. B., came for a couple of nights, but that was when I first went in. They
heard nothing. I then had my husoond's first wife's sister, who is very fond
of me, to stay over Easter. She, fortunately, did not hear anything.
The children frequently aaw lights in their bedroom, generally white, and
Florence one night aaw a white skirt hanging from the ceiling. She was so
frightened that she put her head under the clothes, I\nd would not look again.
Then my solicitor and his wife came down for a night, for he was very
kind about my busine88 matters, as I understand 80 littlo about money
matters, so he cl\me to advise me. Mrs. C. could not go to sleep until four,
as she heard such a heavy fall outside her bedroom door.
One Sunday I was reading by the fire in the drawing-room, and thinking
it was very cosy, when I heard 1\ cry, I\nd thinking it one of the children
ill, was going upstairs. Edith called out, "Birdie, come quickly; something
has opened and shut our door three times, and Borne one is crying.!' I went
up, and we I\ll heard someone sobbing, but where it came from wo could
not tell, but seemed near the wall.
One day, when I was out, the children were playing with Anne in the
room downstairs; they all distinctly heard a very heavy footfall walk SCroBS
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] from .Anothe1' Point of View. 263
the drawing-room, play two notes on the piano, and walk out. I came in
shortly after, astonished to sse them, candle in hand, looking under the beds.
It was a dreadful time.
March 3rd I W8& writing in the drawing-room, when the front door bell
rang violently. I asked who it was j "No one, ma'am." I thought I would
stand by the window, and presently it rang again j down the servant came,
no one there, and after the third time I told her not to go to the door unless
she heard a knock as well. I knew no one had pulled the bell, 8& I was
standing by the window.
I then had an interview with Miss M., the former tenant,who told me she
had gone through precisely what I had, but had said very little about it, for
fear of being laughed at. I W88 far too angry to take notice whether anyone
laughed or not. Miss M. said one afternoon between four and five she woa
in very good spirits, and was playing the piano, and as she CroBBed the room
a figure enveloped in black, with a very white face, and such a forlorn look,
stood before her, and then it faded away. She was so terrified, but did not
tell anyone about it. For some time after she W8& ill from fright on two
occasions, but her aunt being old did not care to move, and she was too
much attached to her to leave. It W8& satisfactory to find some one else had
gone through what we were daily experiencing. March 20th. I was restil1g
in the drawing-room, when as I thought, I heard Edith's voice say three
times, "Darling I " I ran downstsirs, much to their astonishment, and said,
" Well, what is it now 1" They replied, "We were coming directly, why did
you come down 1" c. Well, that is cool; why did you call me 1" .. But we
didn't j you called to us to put on our hats at once 88 you were going into
the town." Anne said she distinctly heard me say it when I had not even
spoken. I believe it W8& that aame night as they were going upstairs to bed,
they saw a white figure standing by the little l·oom. How I hated that room!
Well, then friends suggested I should have the floors up, the chimneys
taken out to see if there W88 any communication to the other house, and the
door tak,en away, and a new one put. One friend offered to lend me a
mastiff' which flew at everything; another offered me his savage bull-dog,
which was always chained up when I called there, and then last, but not
least, I was to have two detectives. " Well," I thought, "it is time to
move; in this bitter weather to have no floors, no grates, no door, a
ferocious mastiff, and still worse a bull-dog and two detectives, a pretty state
of affairs fur anyone!" I asked my landlord to release me, but he would
not unless I paid my rent up to Christmas.
. Having had very heavy expenaes all the year, I thought I would if possible
stay till September, as the evenings would be light, and we should be out
all day, but even that I was not allowed to do, for coming home from paying
visits, I found Florence looking deathly white, and in a very nervous state,
and in breathleBB haste she said she had seen the same face, but the figure
W88 crawling in the little room as if it would spring on her. I at once called
on my doctor, who advised me t() take the children away 88 BOOn 88 poBBible,
and let them be amused, so I left my servant and her father in charge, locked
my bedroom door, and took the kcy, went to London, where Edith was so ill
that I had to call in Dr. F., and as soon as she W88 better I thought I would
l·emain a week longer, making three weeks, so that she might go to a circus
8 2
Digitized by Google
264 P1Lantasm.s of the Dead [Nov. 29,
and be amused, and forget the frights; but even that I wasn't allowed to
do, for on Monday I received a letter from my servant to say they could not
stay in the house any longer, for since her father left, her mother and sister
had slept with her, and they were all startled one night by hearing someone
walk upstairs, throw paper down, and run after it, and the next night some
one knocked loudly at my bedroom door, walked and moved all the furniture
about, and nothing was moved, and that in consequence they had locked up
the house, taking the doves and FIOBB with them, and leaving food enough
for the two cats for three days. I got up early, very much annoyed about
the horrid house, packed and came back with the children, May the 8th.
Fortunately, Edith kept well. My banker's wife kindly met me at the station,
and made me go back with the children to lunch. I telegraphed to my servant
to meet me at the house, and Mrs. L. and I went to look at my present
abode, and that aftenloon agreed to take it from the 10th inst. Mrs. L.
came up to sleep, aud says she heard such thumps and bumps in the little
room underneath, and a hisaing sound round the top of the bed. I paid my
rent and left j I asked Mr. C. to write and tell the landlord he must let me
off a quarter, as I had been put to a great expense through his house, as we
could not possibly live in it, and we cleared out on the following Thursday.
Such a relief to be free from alanDS and noises!
And 80 ended my sojourn of five months in that very extraordinary house.
All is quite true that I have stat.ed, whether mortal or immortal I know not.
I am glad to say my children are recovering, though Edith is still very weak,
and I am suffering dreadfully from neuralgia, the result of the anxiety and
worry I have gone through.-Julle 15th, 1888.
Mr. Gurney wrote:-
I had a long talk with Mrs. G. on June 13th, 1888. She went over the
whole history of her and her children's experiences in the house. She struck
me as an excellent witness. I have never received an account in which tho
words and manner of telling were lesa suggestive of exaggeration or super-
stition. There is no doubt that she was simply turned out of a house which
otherwise exactly suited her, at very serious expense and inconvenience.
Extracts from Mrs. G.'s diary.
January 2nd, 1888.-Anne went home from four to 10. I felt very
nervous being alone with the children, having been so alanned with
noises and apparit.ions before. No. X. [i. e., police-constable] callle to tell how
they had made inquiries, and [no?] strange people came into the empty
house. No noises since Sunday night.
Wednesday, JanUilry 18th.-I heard three loud knocks at my bedroom
door, just as I got into my bed last night. So did the children and Anne;
all very frightened.
January 30th, ,1888.-At three this morning I heard soft knocks at my
bedroom door, and the handle certainly was tried. 1 was very much
frightened, but don't want to alarm the children. Shall bring Flosa up
to-night.
February lst.-I went out making calls. The children said they heard
footsteps in the drawing-room before I came in.
Digitized by Google
1889.] ft'om Anothel' Point of View. 265
February 6th.-Florence saw an apparition in brown at 7.30 a.m. I
wasn't up. Edith was practising, and Anne was doing the grate in the
drawing-room. What can it be 1
February 24th.-Bell rang three times; no one at the door. [Mrs. G.
told me that she was standing at the window.-F.P.]
March 3rd.-Heard the bell ring about 11. No one at the door.
March 2Oth.-Was lying down on the sofa, and heard a voice say
., Darling," then kisses. Ran down to the children, but they were surprised,
not having called me. Said they heard mo call them to get ready to go out.
I had not spoken. And on going to bed they saw a figure in white.
April 9th.-Florence much frightened at apparition. [About five in the
afternoon.-F.P.]
(Went to London on the 19th.)
The above are copies of extracts from Mrs. G.'s diary, made by me on
.July 8th, 1888. At the same time Mrs. G. told me, in connection with the
noises heard by the children on February 1st, that on the day following she
purposely made her entry into the house very noisy; she banged the front
door, walked heavily into the drawing-room, banged the lid of the piano,
•• I made as much noise as ever I could," but on going down to the children,
who were in the play-room (front room in basement), she found they had
beard noLhing.
On the 6th February Florence, having seeing the apparition in the base-
ment room, where she was alone, ran up to Mrs. G. at once, much frightened.
She described the figure as that of a man, with dark brown hair, blue eyes,
anda freckled face. The figure stared at her, and seemed as if it would stop
as long as she stopped. So she ran away.
Mrs. G. also told me a thing which she had not mentioned in her account
-that she was one morning left alone in the basement room about 10 a.m.,
the children having gone upstairs to wash their hands, and suddenly
looking round, she saw distinctly for a moment two human faces at her
elbow. The apparition vanished instantly. She has had no other hallucina-
tion, either of sight or hearing; except that about twelve years ago she and
her husband heard some noises, for which they could not account, and which
may have been hallucinatory.
I also saw the children, Edith aged 11, and Florence aged 9. They are
very bright, intelligent children; the elder very pale and excitsble. I cou1<1
not examine them at length on what they had seen, as Mrs. G. was very
anxious, Edith having evidently not yet recovered from her illness, that they
should not be made to attach too much importance to the subject, and I did
not mention the word ghosts, nor did they. They gave me an account
accurately corresponding to their mother's of what they had seen. On two
or three occasions they saw a figure together. Butthe figure which Edith saw
alone appeared only momentarily and then vanished, whilst Florence's man
with freckles was apparently persistent. Edith described the beautiful hand
placed on the door, which accompanied the "white face." Both were very
positive they had seen something real, and Edith stamped her foot indig-
nantly when her mother suggested "imagination." "Mamma, you know
Digitized by Google
266 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29,
it wasn't imagination!" They seem now to have forgotten a good deal of
their fright, and told me they were very sorry to leave the house.-F.P.,
July 9th, 1888.
From Anne H., Mrs. G.'s Servant.
JUlie 16th, 1888.
We had been in the house nearly three weeks when one night my mistress
came to my room and called me, and said she heard someone screaming and
groaning dreadfully. I went into her room and I heard it too; I thought
someone was being murdered. It seemed in the next house to me, as if
someone was being thrown about dreadfully. Then one afternoon Miss
Edith saw a little woman peep round the door at her; when she looked it was
gone; and then one morning Miss Florence was going up the kitchen stairs,
she saw a man standing in the little room at the top of the stairs by the side
of the window, looking at her; and one afternoon saw the same man again,
he was 011 his hands and knees under the table. We used to hear noises in
t,he roof of a night as if someone was up there throwing something about;
then it would seem to give a great jump down, and run up and downstairs,
and they tried the handle of the children's door; we heard something move
across the room and back again. The children heard something nm across
the room and screw up some paper over by the cupboard in their t'oom, then
go out again. Then we heard that screaming again; we heard it in the
children's room this time; it was most dreadful. Then we heard some door
shook 1\3 if to shake it down; then it kept banging all night long. We did
not get to sleep till between 11 and 12. Then we used to hear a gl'eat
crash every night about 10 o'clock; it was downstairs in the kitchen. I
used to think everything was being smashed; then one night it seemed as if
someone was out on the landing slipping about; then we heard some music;
it sounded like a musical box to me ; it played three times; then one night
we all heard three loud knocks at mistress's door; then the bells used to ring.
When I got upstairs to the front door no one was there. It was the front
door because no one else used to ring. One day it rang three times while I
was dressing. I went down each time, but there was no one there then.
One evening Miss Edith saw some one standing at the top of the kitchen stairs,
all in white, peeping at her. Then Miss Florence went back and she saw it
too. One afternoon I was sitting in the kitchen with the door shut; I heard
someone go creeping upstairs; I looked up and the door was open; I went
up directly, but I could not see anything there. Then the same night as
mistress went to London I heard'that screaming again as if they was knocking
someone about dreadfully. There was such a row. Father was in the house;
he did not hear anything; then he felt something breathing on his face; got
a light and looked about, but he could not see anything. Then he had to go
away; then my little sister came in to be with me, and she heard them throw
some paper dowllstairs and run down after it, and bring it up again. When
I woke up she was crying. I heard the spare room door opeu two or three
times; I had locked it before I went to bed, because it would not latch;
then mother came in ; she did not get to IIleep all night for the noises; she
heard someone go into mistress's room and begin moving the things about,
then something seemed to be in the wall, began tapping about. Then they
moved some paper right over by the cupboard; then we heard someone jlllllp
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] from Arwther Point of View. 267
down outside the spare room door. Then she saw a face; it seemed to come
right through the wall. Then one night in my bedroom I saw a shadow, it
seemed all in a heap ; it went right along the window and shaded right along
the wall opposite. Then I woke up one night and heard such a row; it
seemed close to my ear like an alamm. Then a thump in the ceiling ono
afternoon. We heard someone go right across the drawing-room and touch
the notes of the piano and go out agaiu.
A. H. (aged 21).
(I tslked to Anne H., a clever, intelligent girl. to-day. She gave
me a graphic description of the shadow moving acros.'1 the window
and wall of her bedroom. Has had no other hallucinatioDS.-F.P., July
9th, 1888.)
From Miss R., Surbiton.
DEAR Sm,-In answer to your letter respecting Mrs. G.'s house in
--road, all I can tell you is that I was with her when she moved into it
and for a week after, and during that time nothing happened to disturb us
except the bells used to ring, but this we suppoeed then was done by boys in
the street. I should never have thought of this again if subsequent events
had not made me think of it. Sorry I cannot give you any further informa-
tion.-Yours truly, M. R.
Mrs. G.'s experience in the house appears very quickly to have
become matter of common talk in the town, and in May of the same
year, when the house was empty, a party of three gentlemen obtained
access to it, on two different occasioDS, for the purposes of investigation.
Their accounts are given below.
From Mr.W. O. D., Barrister-nt-Law.
July 1st, 1888.
May 23rd, 1888.----First visit, in companywith the Rev. G. O. and Mr. C.,
solicitor. Hcard a bell ring, which I believe was not mng by any
mundane agency. Subsequently we heard a heavy crash, as it were of
crockery, not produced by any visible means.
May 28th.-Second viHit. In company with the same gentlemen herein
before mentioned I saw part of the drcM of a sUller-material being. Mr. O.
and Mr. C., who were in the room before me, saw far more of the form than
I did. After the apparition, the Rev. G. O. performed a ceremony of
exorcism, in which both myself and Mr. C. joined. I have since been to the
house, but did not hear or witness anything unusual. I am firmly convinced
in my own mind that the phenomena we beheld and the noises we heard
were the results oi super-material forces.
From the Rev. G. O.
July 3rd, 1888.
I have not kept and can't recall dates, but about a month ago I went to.
--road, hearing it was haunted. I went with Mr. D. and Mr. C. and the
ageut's son, at eight. At8.30 we heard bell ringing, butnothing to account for
Digitized by Google
268 Phanta8ms of the Dead [Nov. 29,
it. Little later on a crash and fall as of a box or board tumbling down. All
heard this, three of them being on the ground fioor, I on the basement.
A few evenings after we went the second time, at nine o'clock. At 9.30
or about, as we were thinking of leaving, and as we stood in hall, I saw
a form glide from back to front room, and at same time my two friends,
who were beside me saw, D. a part of the figure and C. the entire.
This was all. I then said prayers for exorcism of the house and rest for
the souls. Since then no more has baen heard.
I may add I saw myself, but lIOt distinctly, a small column of misty
vapour on the first occasion, but not being vcry distinct, and not developing
into anything, I do not enter into it here.
In conversation Mr. D., who appeared to be a man of nervous
temperament, and who has implicit faith in the efficacy of the exorcism,
told me that he had had no other hallucinations. Mr. 0., he said,
went first into the room, and drew the attention of the others to the
figura, which disappeared almost instantaneously. Neither Mr. D. nor
Mr. C. could remember accurately the position of the light; but they
thought it probable, on the whole, that Mr. O. C8nied a light in his
hand, and that there was no other light, except through the uncurtained
windows, in the room where the figure was seen. Mr. 0., who is
extremely deaf, appears to have heard the noise on the first evening
with perfect distinctness. Mr. O. has had other sensory hallucinations
which may have been veridical. Mr. C. gave me an account of the in-
cident corresponding with those given by Mr. D. and Mr. 0., except that,
as he described it, he only saw the end of a woman's dress disappearing
round the door. Mr. C. also gave me an account of a hallucination,
resembling the human figure, which he had seen only a few weeks
previously in his own room, when, apparently, in normal health.
We have been unable, so far, to induce Mr. C. to give us a written
account of his experiences.
Finally, I subjoin an extract from a newspaper of April 5th, 1879,
relating to a suicide which took place in the house:-
SINOULAR CASE OF SUICIDE.-The Coroner held an inquest on Satur-
day at the--Inn, on the body of Mrs. M. F., aged 42 years, who com-
mitted suicide by hanging herself on the previous day. Deceased, a
lodging-house keeper in --road,l had more than once threatened to
destroy herself, but no importance was attached to what she said. On
Friday, however, she sent a letter to a friend saying that she would never
be seen alive again in this world; but this, like her previous assertions, was
regarded as an empty threat, and it was not until Mr. B.
lodging at her house, missed her, and mentioned the fact to a relative, that
any notice was taken of the letter. The house was then searched, and
I The num/,no of the house is not given in the newspaper report; but it has been
ascertained from the police records of suicides.
1889.] from .Anothe1' Point of View. 269
deceased was discovered hanging by l\ skipping-rope to a peg behind the
door of the top back bedroom, quite dead. The jury returned a verdict,
•• Suicide whilst in a state of unsound mind."
[Date of Suicide-March 28th, 1879.]
Here again it will be noticed that before anything of an unusual
character is seen in the house a nervous state had been induced in the
occupants in each case by the unaccountable noises which were heard.
In the case of Miss Morns the phantasm was of a constant type. But
with the subsequent tenants a general hallucinatory diathesis, almost
comparable with that of the famous Mrs. A., appears to have been estab-
lished, !Iond the ghosts are multiform. The evidence of the third
group of witnesses possesses little independent value. All three were
acquainted with what had already taken place in the house: their
general attitude towards the subject is illustrated by the fact that one
of their number afterwards performed an act of exorcism in the
house, with all due ceremonial observances: and two of them had
previously experienced visual hallucinations.
The least readily explicable feature in the story is the appearance
of phantasms to two independent groups of observers, the second of
whom were almost certainly ignorant of the experiences of their prede-
cessors. This may have been a mere coincidence j or the apparitions,
which, it will be observed, were entirely dissimilar, may hava, in each case,
been generated by the alarm caused by the occurrence of inexplicable
noises, themselves possibly to be explained as hallucinatory superstruc-
tures built up round a nucleus of real sounds, just as we know from
the experiments of ~Il\I. Binet and Fere that visual hallucinations may
be constructed on an external point de repere. Or it is permissible to
conjecture that the later experiences may have been started by thought-
transference from Miss Morris, whose thoughts, no doubt, occasionally
turned to the house in which she had suffered so much agitation and
alal'Dl.
Readers to whom such a conjecture seems beyond the bounds of
probability are reminded that the alternative explanation is not that of
a semi-corporeal ghostly entity, capable of uttering expressive sighs and
displacing the kitchen furniture. Such a conception may conceivably
have appeared adequate at an earlier stage of the investigation. Such
a conception, in a less crude form and with less explicitness, may still
appeal to some as the simplest interpretation of the facts. But it is not
held by Mr. Myers. He has anticipated me in pointing out that, how-
ever caused, the phenomena are of the nature of hallucinations. There
has been no displacement of the kitchen furniture, the sighs heard were
conveyed by no aerial vibrations. To him the manifestations seem to
reflect "a dead man's incoherent dream." To me it is not obvious why
Digitized by Google
270 Phantasm8 of the Dead [Nov. 29,
the dreams of the living should possess less potency than the imagined
dreams of the unknown dead.
So far there has been no attempt to identify the phantasms. Indeed
so many dissimilar figures have been recorded in the last two narratives
that any attempt at identification must necessarily have been attended
with considerable difficulties. But, as already said, in a large number of
cases an attempt is made to trace the origin of the phantasm. The two
following cases supply very good examples. In the first case (G. 188)
we have the evidence of four witnesses, who testify to having seen the
figure of a child in the house. And we have in our possession a certifi-
cate of the death of the child who, as stated by one of the narrators,
died in the house some years before the apparition was seen. The first
account is written by Mrs. H., wife of a doctor in a small provincial
town; and, as we learn from her, Dr. H. has seen and admitted the
correctness of what she has written, so that his evidence is practically
first-hand. We owe this narrative to 1\1r. 1\1ore Adey, of Wotton-
under-Edge, who has seen some of the persons concerned; and the
original accounts, which are undated, appear to have been sent to him
in the latter part of 1883.
G. 188.
Some years ago (perhaps about 20 or more), we happened to be having one
of our usual small gatherings for a musical evening, when the circumstance
happened which I am going to relate. My husband had been detained visiting
patients until rather late, returning home about 9 o'clock. He was running
upstairs in his ususl quick way, three or four steps at a time, to go to his
dressing-room and dress for the evening, when, on turning the first flight of
stairs, he was rather startled to see on the landing (a few steps higher) a little
child, who ran before him into my room. My little boy B., about two or
three years of age, was at that time sleeping in a small child's bed at my
bedside. Mr. H. followed and spoke, calling the boy by name, but he gave
no ILllSwer. The gas was burning on the landing outside my room, but there
was no light inside. He felt about and on the bcd, but instead of finding
the child standing or sitting on the bed, as he supposed, he found him com·
fortably tucked in and fast asleep. A cold creepy feeling came over him, for
there had not possibly been time for anyone to get intO the bed, which was
just behind the door. He lighted a candle, searched the room, and also saw
that the boy was unmistakably fast asleep. He expected to find one of the
other children, 1\8 the figure appeared to be taller than that of the boy.
When the company had gone my husband told me of the occurrence. I felt
quite sure that the mystery could be solved, and that we should find it had
been one of the children, though he l\88ured me there could be no one in the
room, 1\8 he had made a thorough search.
I still thought he might be mistaken, and fancied that it had been G.
(who was a year or two older than B.), who had escaped out of the night
nursery, which WI\8 near; that she had been listening to the music, when she
heard someone coming, and had run into my room to hide ; but on inquiring
closely the next moruing, I fowld she had never left her bed. We did not
Digitized by Google
1889.] f1'orn .AnotlI.e1· Point of View. 271
. think much more about it, though there was still a feeling of mystery, and.
we never named it to anyone. Some years afterwards it was brought to our
minds by two of my daughters having seen a child very early in the morning
at the same time, but in di1f'erent rooms. One of them only saw its face.
Then, after a lapse of years, Miss A., while staying with us, saw the appari-
tion mentioned in her ghost story. Whether the appearance has been a.
ghost or merely an optical delusion I cannot say, but each of those who have
seen it had never heard the slightest allusion to anything of the kind before.
H the apparition should be a ghost, I have thought that it must be the spirit
of a little girl who died in part of our house before it was added to it. When
we first came to this house, about 30 years ago, it was divided into two, tha
smaller part being inhabited by a doctor. His wife died soon after we came,
and a few years afterwards his little girl. I used to see her when she was
ill, and I last saw her the day before she died. She had fine dark eyes, black
hair, oval face, and a pale olive complexion. This description I find exactly
agrees with those who have seen its face. None of them had ever heard me
mention the child; indeed, I had forgotten about her until hearing of these
ghost stories. I said it must be J. M., who died here. Soon after her
death her father went abroad. As far as I remember the child was about
eight or nine years of age.
From Miss G. H.
I was up early one winter's morning just as dawn was breaking, and
there was barely light enough for me to see my way about the house ; I was
feeling tired and somewhat sleepy, but not in the slightest degree nervous.
On passing the door of a room at the head of the staircase, in which my
youngest sister slept, I perceived that it was open. Taking hold of the
handle, I was about to shut it (the door opened inwards), when I was startled
by the figure of a child, standing in a corner formed by a wardrobe which
was placed against the wall about a foot and a-half from the doorway.
Thinking it was my sister, I exclaimed, .. Oh, M;, you shouldn't startle ma
80 ! " and shut the door; but in the same instant, before I had time to quit
my hold of the handle, I opened it again, feeling sure that it could not be my
sister ; and, sure enough, she was fast asleep in bed so far from the door that
it would not have been possible for her to have crossed from the door to her
bedside in the short space of time when I was closing the door. In tha
comer where the child had been there was nothing, and I felt that I must
have seen a ghost, for I was suddenly seized with a feeling of horror which
could not have been caused by anything imaginary. The child had a dark
coD;lplexion, hair and eyes, and a thin oval face; it was not white as when
seen by Miss A., but it gave me a mournful look as if full of trouble. Had
it been a living child, I should have imagined it to be one who enjoyed nona
of the thoughtlessness and carelessness of childhood, but whose young life,
on the contrary, was filled with premature cares. Its age might be about nine
or 10 ; its dress I could not distinguish, as I only seemed to see its head and
face; the expression struck me most; so vividly did I see it that if I were
able to draw I could, I believe, give an accurate representation of it, even
now after about five years.
On telling my eldest sister A. what I had seen she said, "How very
curious I I thought I saw something, too, this morning."
Digitized by Google
272 Phantasms of the Dea<l [Nov. 29,
I must tell you that to reach her bedroom it was neceBBary to pass through
mine; on the morning in question as she looked into my room she saw a
figure standing by a small table. Being short-sighted she thought for a
moment that it was I, though it appeared to be smaller; and suddenly seized
with a nervous fear, mo&t unusual with her, she called out, "Oh! G., wait
for me." She turned for an instant to get something out of her room, and
when she looked again there was nothing to be seen. The door from my
room into the passage was shut. I was in another part of the house at the
time, and we were the only two members of the family out of bed.
From Mrs. A. (formerly Miss H.)
I believe it was between five and six in the morning my sister and seli
thought we would get up early to read. We had our bedrooms close together,
with the door in the middle joining the rooms always open.
My sister had just left her room about three minutes; when I looked
towards her room I saw a little figure in white standing near a table. I did
not see its face, but I attribute that to my being soshort-sighted. Also I was
80 suddenly overcome with nervousneSB that I ran from the room.
During the morning I told my sister what I had seen i then she gave me
her account.
Asked whether they had experienced any other hallucination, Miss
O. H. and Mrs. A. replied in the negative. Dr. H., however, explained
that he had heard more than once strange unaccountable noises, and
from a later letter we learn that on one occasion he had a ...·isual
hallucination after sitting up three nights in succession.
In answer to questions, Mrs. H. writes:-
December 11th. 1883.
Strange that she [i.e., the child whom the phantasm was supposed to
resemble] did not die in our house, but in the next one to it, which has since
been added. It was originally all in one. It is since the two houses have
been joined that the child appeared, and to three, Mr. H., G., and MiSB A.,
in our old part. But when Mrs. A. saw it, it was in the very room in which
she died. When the others described the appearance of the child, then it
struck me it might be the one I knew, and when I gave a minute description
of her they said it corresponded exactly.
* * * * * *
The first appearance to Mr. H. was in winter, but we do not remember
the date. On referring to other events that occurred about the tinle, I th.ink
it must have been between January 1863 and 1865. The child appeared to
both my daughters on the same morning. This happened in January, 1877.
It appeared to MiBB A. in July, 1879.
J. M. died January 21st, 1854, aged 10 years. I enclose a copy of the
registration of her death.
April 11th, 1885.
My husband a few weeks ago began to hear again the loud knocks which
he mentions in answer to one of your former questions. He does not say
much about it, but I see that he thinks it is something supenl&tural.
I want to persuade him that it is a dream, and I cannot help thinking
Digitized by Google
1889.] from Anothe1' Point of View. 273
that it may be, but I am trying to find it out. I cannot hear the knocks.
They ceased for a few weeks, but came again two or three nights ago. I
have begged that he will tell me when it comes again, and I shall make a
note of each time, with the surrounding circumstances.
I think I told you before that it was only my idea that the apparition of
the child might be one who died many years ago in part of our house, then
detached, and I rather mentioned it in jest at the first. Long afterwards,
however, and some time after the appearance to Miss A., when I gave a
description of the child, my daughter G. exclaimed at once that it was exactly
the same as the one she saw (she had partly described it to me before), and
the same as the face Miss A. had seen. I distinctly remember J. M.'s face,
although I have forgotten almost everything else about her.
May 20th, 1885.
I was only two nights absent, but on my return my husband told me that
in the first night he had again heard the knocks very loud. This happened to
be the night my brother-in-law died. Still I do not think the knocks are
from any supernatural cause, though it is perhaps worth trying to find out.
You will see in my answers that when quite a young man he heard noises
immediately preceding a death. He has never heard anything of the kind
for many, many years, except, I think, occasional noises within the last year,
which I told you of. It is now quite six weeks, or more, since he heard a
succession of knocks, that is, at intervals of a night or two.
The following a.ccount, written by Miss J. A. A., and communicated
by her to Mr. H. C. Coote, appeared in Notes and Queries for March
20th, 1880, over the signature of H. C. C. :-
The following interesting communication has been handed to me by a
young lady, who is as intelligent as she is charming. Her hereditary acumen
precludes altogether the possibility of any self-deceit in regard to her own
personal experiences as narrated by herself.
.. What I am going to relate happened to myself while staying with some
North-country cousins, last July, at their house in --shire. I had spent
a few days there in the summer of the prenous year, but without then hear-
ing or seeing anything out of the common. On my second visit, arriving
early in the afternoon, I went out boating with some of the family, spent a
very jolly evening, and finally went to bed-a little tired, perhaps, with the
day's work, but not the least nervous. I slept soundly until between three
and four, just when the day was beginning to break. I had been awake for
a short time when suddenly the door of my bedroom opened and shut again
rather quickly. I fancied it might be one of the servants, and called out,
•Come in !' After a short time the door opened again, but no one came in
-at least, no one that I could see. Almost at the same time that the door
opened for the second time, I was a little startled by the rustling of some
curtains belonging to a hanging wardrobe, which stood by the side of the
bed; the rustling continued, and I was seized with a most uncomfortable
feeling, not exactly of fright, but a strange, unearthly sensation that I was
,lOt alone. I had had that feeling for some minutes, when I saw at the foot
of the bed achild about seven or nine years old. The child seemed as if it
were on the bed, and came gliding towards me as I lay. It was the figure of
274 Plwntas1it8 of tlte Deael [Nov. 29,
n little girl in her night-dress-a little girl with dark hair and a very white
face. I tried to speak to her, but could not. She came slowly on up to the
top of the bed, and I then saw her face clearly. She seemed in great
trouble; her hands were clasped and her eyes were turned up with a look of
entreaty, an almost agonised look. Then, slowly unclasping her hands, she
touched me on the shoulder. The hand felt icy cold, and while I strove to
speak she was gone. I felt more frightened after the child was gone than
before, and began to be very anxious for the time when the servant would
make her appearance. Whether I slept again or not I hardly know. But
by the time the servant did come I had almost persuaded myself that the
whole affair was nothing but a very "ivid nightmare. However, when I
came down to breakfast, there were many remarks made about my not look-
ing well-it was observed that I was pale. In answer I told my cousins that
I had had a most vivid nightmare, and I remarked if I was a believer in
ghosts I should imagine I had seen one. Nothing more was said at the time
upon this subject, except that my host, who was a doctor, observed that I
had better not sleep in the room again, at any rate not alone.
" So the following night one of my cousins slept in the same room with
me. Neither of us saw or heard anything out of the way during that night
or the early morning. That being the case, I persuaded myself that what I
had seen had been only imagination, and, much agaiust everybody's ex-
pressed wish, I insisted the next night on sleeping in the room again, and
alone. Accordingly, having retired again to the same room, I was kneeling
down at the bedside to say my prayers, when exactly the same dread as
before came over me. The curtains of tho wardrobe swayed about, and I
had the samo sensation as previously, that I was not alone. I felt too
frightened to stir, when, luckily for me, one of my cousins came in for
something which she had left. On looking at me she exclaimed, 'Have you
soen anything l' I said, ' No,' but told her how I felt, and, without much
persuasion being necessary, I left the room with her, and never returned to
it. When my hostess learnt what had happened (as she did immediately)
she told me I must not sleep in that room again, as the nightmare had made
such an impression on rue; I should imagine (she said) all sorts of things and
make myself quito ill. I went to another room, and during the rest of my
visit (a week), I was not troubled by any reappearance of the little girl.
"On leaving, my cousin, the eldest daughter of the doctor, went on a
visit with me to the house of an uncle of mine in the same county. 'Ve
stayed there for about a fortnight, and during that time the 'little girl' was
alluded to only as my 'nightmare.'
" In this I afterwards found there was a little reticence, for, just before
leaving my uncle's, my cousin said to me, 'I must tell you something I have
been longing to tell you ever since I left home. But my father desired me
not to tell you, as, not being very strong, you might be too frightened.
Your nightmare was not a nightmare lit all, but the apparition of a little girl.'
She then went on to tell me that this 'little girl' had been seen three times
before, by three different members of tho family, but as this was some nine
or 10 years sinco, they had almost ceased to think anything about it until I
related my experiences on the morning after tho first night of my second visit.
" My cousin further went on to tell me that her younger sister whilst in
1889.] !1'O<nt Anotlte1' Point of View. 275
bed had one morning, about daybreak, to her great surprise, seen a little girl
with dark hair, standing with her back to her, looking out of the window.
She took this figure for her little sister, and spoke to it. The child not
replying or moving from her position, she called out to it, 'It's no uso
standing like that; I know you. You Mn't play tricks with me.' On looking
round, however, she saw that her little sister, the one she thought she was
addressing, and who was sleeping with her, had not moved from the bed.
Almost at the same time the child pa'J8ed from the window into the room of
her (my cousin's) sister A., and the latter, as she afterwards declared, dis-
tinctly saw the figure of a child with dark hair standing by the side of a
table in her room. She spoke to it, and it instantly disappeared. The 'little
girl' was subsequently again seen, for the last time before I saw it, by my
cousin's father, Dr. H. It was in the early daylight of a summer's morning,
and he was going upstairs to his room, having just returned from a pro-
feBBional visit. On this occasion he saw the same child (he noticed its dark
hair) running up the stairs immediately before him, until it reached his room
and entered it. When he got into the room it was gone.
"Thus the apparition has been seen three times by the family, and once
by me. I am the only one, however, that has aeen its face. It has also
never been seen twice in the same room by anyone else."
From Mrs. H.
N member 21st, 1882.
The first part told by Mi8B J. A. of the appearance of the little girl to
her is most accurate, and is exactly as she told it to us the morning after,
but the latter part, which she has written from memory, having heard it
perhaps in a confused way, is not quite right.
This is among the most interesting and the strongest examples
in our collection of the "successive" type. It is evidentially strong,
because, in the first place, there is a reasonable presumption that
none of the percipients had heard of any experience previous to
her own, and, in the second place, the accounts, as they stand, show a
marked similarity in the various appearances. And .lastly, from the
record the apparition appears to have borne an unmistakable resem-
blance to the child who had actually died in the house some years
before. The similarity of the various appearances, however, and their
common resemblance to the deceased J. M. is not sufficiently established
to bear a very close scrutiny. The first percipient, Dr. H., mistook
the figure which he saw for that of his little boy of two or three, or his
little girl of four years of age; and Miss H. (Mrs. A.) believed the
figure to be her sister, who must at that time have been at least
sixteen. Further, it must be remembered that Miss G. H.'s description
-the most detailed of all-was not written until some years after the
event, and after the appearance of the figure had been discussed with
Mrs. H., who held a theory of her own on the matter, and had, as she
told us, given to her daughter a minute description of the dead child.
It is impossible to avoid a suspicion that under the circumstances
Digitized by Google
276 P1LantasrY1.8 of the Dead [~ov. 29,
the definiteness of outline in Miss G. H.'s description may be due to a
combination of her mother's narrative with her own experience. The
same criticism applies to Miss J. A. A.'s account, which was not written
until some months after the event, and after she had heard from bel'
cousin of the previous appearances. Not much reliance, I submit,
can be placed 011 the details of a description written under such
conditions. The most, therefore, that can be said is, that in a house
where a little girl is known to have died, a figure resembling a little
child or young girl was seen on four different occasions by four indepen-
dent witnesses. That, of course, is a remarkable series of coincidences.
It is not difficult to trace the probable genesis of the first appear-
ance. A hardworking country doctor, who has on various occasions in
his life experienced hallucinations, visual and auditory, coming home
late one evening, after a long day's work, sees a figure bearing a vague
resemblance to one of his children-a purely subjective hallucina-
tion. The later appearances, if in fact there was no communication
of Dr. H.'s experience, are more difficult of explanation. The two
earlier may have been the result of hereditary predisposition to halluci-
nation. But it seems at least possible that all three were due to
thought-transference, with Dr. A., or perhaps Mrs. A., on whom the
first appearance seems to have made some impression, as the agent. In
this way also the general resemblance which appears to have existed
between the various appearances may most readily be accounted for.
The explanation may seem far-fetched and improbable: but the critic
should be reminded that we have much evidence for the operation of
telepathy between living minds, but we have very little for the existence
or the agency of disembodied spirits.
In the next case the identification of the ghost is more precise, tmd
the explanation, perhaps, more difficult.
G. 189.
From Mary G., Nursemaid.
[This account was written by me from notes of a conversation with
Mary G., and was subsequently corrected a.nd signed by her.]
March 21st, 1888.
I have been three and a-half years in Mrs. Z.'a aervice as nursemaid.
One night in November, 1885 (just before the baby came), I was going along
the pnll8l\ge at about 8 p.m. The p&Il8I\ge was very dimly lighted by the gas
ahilling through from the housemaid's cupboard. I saw a woman'a figure,
dressed ill something light, coming towards me. I noticed that the dress
aeemed a little way above the ground, and I thought it was the kitchen-maid.
AIl. ahe passed I put out my band to touch her, but ahe moved on one aide,
and again to the other side when I followed her. At last ahe moved through
and past me and disappeared, or my blocking the light hid her from view. I
could distinguiah no featurea at all. The dreBS was not quite ao light aa
Digitized by Google
1889.] f1"Om Anothe1' Point of View. 277
white-perhaps a light grey. I did not see what kind of a dre88 it was. I
laW the same figure again the following night, in the same place. I told only
the nurse what I had seen, but she only laughed at me and said it was my
imagination, and I did not care to talk of it again.
I saw the same figure once afterwards in the following March, after L.
had told me what he had seen ; it was standing at the dressing-room door
one evening. There was a gas-light just outside which shone full on the
figure. The figure seemed very tall, taller than an average man, and dreBBed
in some. loose Howing stuff; it hid the chair at the dre88ing-room door. I
don't remember anything about the dre88 or the features. I was frightened
and gave a scream, and the nurse came out, but the figure was gone.
I have also before this seen a man in the dre88ing-room- three times in
one evening. This was before L. came. And once after this, I saw a woman
in a brown dre88. But I have never seen anything elae of the kind before I
came to this house. I have often heard noises of footsteps and the aound of
a scufBe, and of something heavy being dragged downstairs and so on. I
would wake up at night to hear the noises. I have not heard the noises for
about six months.
From W. L., Butler. •
July 12th, 1886.
I entered Mr. Z.'s service as butler on the 21st of October, 1885. I had
not been in the house three daya before I heard a strange noise in the cellar.
It sounded to me as if it were a lot of barrels rolljng, and planks of wood
being stacked. I started up in the bed and listened moat attentively. I
could hear the barrels roll one after the other quite distinctly. I spoke of it
to my fellow-servants the next morning, and I saw a look and a quiet whisper
paaa between them. On the following night we retired to bed a few minutes
past 10. I had just got into my bed when I heard a strange noise in the
pantry, which is adjoining my bedroom. I got out of my bed very quiet and
crept out, but I saw nothing. I returned to my bed, when I heard a heavy
thump in the cellar. I arose and partly dre88ed myself, took a light with me
to the cellar to see what was wrong. I crept down very quiet, but found
everything quite still and everything in its place, but on returning to my
bedroom it commenced again. I heard doora banging, and outside of my
door the noise was as if two people were wrestling one with the other. The
same kind of noise continued for some considerable time. At last I fell
asleep. I might have slept 20 minutes when the noise became so great I
could not atay in bed any longer, so creeping out to aee what it was, but I
found I could not see anything, but still the noise continued the same. I
stood listening in the pantry about 10 minutes, and all of a sudden the
pantry door went bang, but still not a single thing could I see move. I
returned to my bed, and in le88 than two minutes I heard footsteps pa88ing
to and fro on the stairs, which are at the head of my bedstead and have only
a very thin partition to part. Well, noises continued the same for a con-
siderable length of time. I was disturbed two or three times a week. A
nurse who slept over me heard the same kind of noises 8B I have described.
On March 9th, 1886, at 4.30 p.m., I went into the library and did up the fire ;
on coming out I put the scuttle down to fasten the door after me. On
turning to pick the scuttle up I saw a figure standing before me; it was
T
Digitized by Google
278 Phanias?n8 of the Dead [Nov. 29,
dressed in a brown gannent with two tassels hanging at the left side; her
figure was perfect with the exception of a head, which I could not see, as it
appeared to me like a black mist. I stood like one struck dumb for about
10 seconds; I caught up the scuttle to fly when I felt something touch my
left side. It was like a very cold hand, and a very cold chill passed over me
at the time. I felt very sick, IlS the sudden shock was too much for my
system. I felt ill all the evening after. I spoke to Mr. Z. on the following
morning. He did not seem the least surprised to hear of it, as everybody
was fully acquainted with the noises. At a later date I was decorating the
dinner-table with flowers, and onlooking up I saw the same figure again. I
did not feel frightened, as I wanted to have a good look at it, but I could not
see anything more than on the last occasion. Well, time pa88ed by, and
everybody as well as myself was got quite used to the ghost. Whether by
accident or not I cannot say, some ladies and gentlemen tried table-turning,
and found Mr. Z. to be a very strong medium. On the same evening, as
they were at the table-turning, I was putting the grog-tray on a small table at
the foot of the drawing-room stairs when it appeared exactly in the same
place I saw it on March 9th; it was moving very slowly towards me. I felt
rather timid, and I stepped into my pantry rather quick, and on looking at
the clock I found it to be exactly a quarter before 11. I retired to rest
shortly after, not seeing or hearing anything more.
On the following morning, Saturday, June 26th, I told Mr. Z.; so he
communicated it to Colonel and Mrs. Y. and Mrs. M., they being bosom
friends of one another, aud Mrs. M. being a medium with the table. So they
came down in the evening for table·turning.
[The narrator here goes on to recount a series of questions put to the
" spirit," who replied by tilting the table, indicating a spot in the cellar
where a box of jewels had been buried.]
Mr. Z. rang the bell and told me she said she would appear at 11, and
he wished me to be present. At seven minutes to 11 I went into the
drawing-room; then the medium asked if she was coming, and she said,
"Now." We turned the gas down very low and put open the door; a gas-
light was burning outside the door, which threw a light into the drawing~
room. I placed my hands upon the table and I felt every nerve in my body
move, for it felt stronger to the nerves than a galvanic battery. I took my
hands off and stood behind Colonel Y.'s chair, with Mr. and Mrs. Z. at my
left, Mrs. M. and Mrs. Y. next, and a Mr. J. on the outside, Ilnd as the
clock struck 11 in it walked very slowly, and stood opposite the gallery
of the drawing-room. She appeared very indistinctly; the medium asked
her to appear clear, and she immediately raised herself about three feet from
the floor. Mrs. Z. and Mrs. M. could see everything as well as myself. She
showed herself to us as clear as possible. Her dress was the same shape,
with large bell sleeves and two tassels at the side. The colour of her dress
was a light shiny kind of Japanese silk; it seemed to me as if it were figured
with a flower similar to a chrysanthemum. Her feet seemed to be standing on
a dark cloud, and she threw her arms up and down and continually wrung
her hands and clutched her hair. Her face was of a long haggard-looking
appearance, with a long thin nose. She looked very miserable. Her hair
\Vas very fair, but seemed to be torn to pieces, for it hung in one thick-
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] from Another Poi11.t of View. 279
looking mass over her shoulden nesrly to her waist. Her ean were very
small and her eyes were cast up 'and appesred like balls of fire. She moved
about the room and came close to me j her hand was held up to touch me, but
I stepped in at the side of Colonel Y.'s chair. I felt quite ill j I never felt so
sick before; then every drop of blood in my body seemed to be frozen. I
felt sinking through the floor. Mr. Z. turned up the gas j she disappesred
for a few minutes. I sat down to rest for a while. Still I felt I had not
seen enough j so we prepared for her again. I sat on a chair in front of the
table, and was holding Mr. J.'s hand, when she appeared in front of U8 again.
All soon as I said, "There it is ! " I felt Mr.•J. sniggle up close to me, and he
held my hand so tight that if I had wanted to get up to run back I should
have found it difficult, as I was held down so tight. At last I got up to go
near it, as she wished me to follow her. As soon as I stepped nearer to her
she turned towards the door very slowly, and as she passed out of the door a
flash of light struck over the room. It was as if someone had turned on and
oft" an electric light. I followed to the cellar but could not find anything.
'Ve brought the table to the cellar, and she wished WI to commence to
dig up the treasures she had buried. She said her maid assisted her to
bury them, and gave her name as E. H.; but being Saturday night
we determined to wait until Monday to see if they were in the plsce as
indicated. We wished her good-night.
On the following Monday, June 28th, B. and myself began to dig at the
place ; we removed the flagstones, but found the soil had never been dis-
turbed. At last we came across a hole ihat had been' moved, but there was
nothing there. I got the table and asked her to appesr over the spot.
After some time she stood in the centre of the cellar and said it was there,
but on digging we found nothing. She seemed to be dreadfully excited j she
flung her arms in all directioll8 on disappearing. B., the gardener, saw the
flash of light. After digging all day and finding nothing we were deter-
mined to ask her why we had not found them, when she declared that they
are there somewhere. She says she has lost the exact spot, but begged of us
to help her.
Well, time passed by and I saw her again outside of the libmry door.
Dinner being over I just left the dining-room, when she stood opposite
the library door. It was about 8.30 j and at a later date when some gentle-
men dined here I saw her in the same spot. She has been dreBBed always in
the same shaped dress ; and I believe what she has answered in the way of
questioll8 to be perfectly true, and that the jewels or valuables, or whatever
they may be, are still hidden in the cellar, and she will haunt this house till
they are found. She may have lost the spot where they are hidden, but still
I believe that some day the secret will be revealed, and she will receive the
rest she says she shall get after.
I had a. long talk on March 20th, 1888, with W. L., a rather
delicate, refined looking ma.n about 30 years old, as I should judge.
He told me he had had no other visluri hallucination, but he appears
to have had'previous experiences, seemingly of an hallucinatory nature,
for which he was unable to account. He seemed, as indeed is evident
T 2
Digitized by Google
280 Phantasm8 of the Dea<l [Nov. 29.
from his account, to be of a nervous and excitable disposition, with &
full appreciation of the dramatic situations in his stOlj'.
Mr. Z., in sending us the account in July, 1886, writes:-
The above DaITative written by my butler I belie\'e to be true. Pel"llOn-
ally I have never seen her (the apparition) but I certainly have never had
any reason to doubt the truth of the foregoing statement.
My wife has seen the apparition on four sepnrate OCC3IIions, The chief
interest in this aflilir seemB to me to be in the utility of table-turning. I
had never seen any table manifestations before, and we 0111y began it 011D
evening to paBII away the tinle, and when we sat down we had no more idea
that this particular spirit would make itself manifest than that any useful
results might possibly accrue from our amWlOment. I had often heard
peculiar noises in the hOUSEl, and the servants called the place "haunted,"
but nothing had ever occurred to establish the fact until last winter, when
the butler saw the shadow when putting coals on the fire. One fact seems
to be satisfactorily established, and that is, two or three people out of a.
room full can see a spirit, and the others remain in ignorance of its presence.
I have tried on four OCC3IIions to see it when it has appeared. My wife, a.
lady friend, and the butler .could see it, but four otller people present failed
to do so. In Ol1e place in the naITative the butler says that the spirit;
"raised itself .. off the ground. I had better explain that there is a gallery at
one end of the drawing-room, and it was on to this the shadow raised itself;
of course I could not see it do 80, for I have mentioned before my inability
to seo it, but that it did really raise itself on to the gallery there can be very
little doubt, as all the people who saw it said 80 at the moment the action
took place.
Mrs. Z. has, unfortunately, so far declined to furnish a written
narrative of her experiences. At a personal interview, however, in
March, 1888, she gave me a very full account of her own share in the
matter, which entirely corresponded with that given by l\lr. Z. and the
butler. The seances referred to lasted for about six weeks in June or
July, 1886. The woman's figure described by W. L. was, Mrs. Z. told
me, also seen by her and by Mrs. M. during these seances, but at no
other time. As far as she knew, all three saw the same figure. Mrs.
Z. saw the face distinctly, and subsequently recognised it in a photo-
graph of a lady who had lived in the house a few years previously.
Mrs. Z. did not come to the neighbourhood until some years after this
lady's death, and had never previously seen her, or any picture of her.
She has had no other hallucination.
As regards the recognition of the photograph, Mr. Z. writes, in May,
1888:-
You ask me to tell you my account of the recognition of the photogmph.
I think that the butler's recognition does not amount to much.
It (i.e., the photogmph) was lying on my table one morning and on his
coming into the room I asked him if he had ever .reen anyone like it. He
Digitized by Google
.1889.] fl'om, Anot1~er Point of Vie·w. 281
said the eyes, forehead, and nose he knew, but that he somehow could not
put a name to it though he had seen the person Beveral times. I told him
who it was supposed to be and then he said, "The eyes I should have known
anywhere, but I have never seen the whole face so distinctly 8B this photo
gives it," or words to that effect.
The second case is certainly more re~arkable.
A gentleman in C., hearing of the supposed appearances and of my wife's
having Been the apparition, brought over half a dozen photos, amongst othera
()ne of what is supposed to be the spirit, to test my wife. She W8B not
present in the room when he arrived, but came in about a quarter of an
hour later. We purposely refrained from mentioning the subject at all.
Taking up the photos I asked her ifany of them reminded her ofa friend,
all the pictures being about twenty years old. She looked them through, and
thought one all early one of a friend who was present.
I took up one and tossed it across the tea-table, and only uttered the
words "Who's that 1" and she, after looking at it for a moment, said, "Oh,
that's the ghost-where on earth did it come from 1"
We were all rather staggered at her recognition, especially the gentleman
who brought the pictures, as he had laughed the whole thing to acorn.
Personally I am no believer in apparitiona, and I offered" thousand pounds
to anyone who would show me the ghost who 80 unceremoniously haunts Illy
house. 'There the matter rests. Some people declare they have seen it, but
()thers, including myself, cannot see the thing even when it is supposed to be
(l108e to one.
Under the conditions described it must be admitted to be possible
that Mrs. Z. received unconscious indications, from the manner
()r look of thoBe around, of the answer that was expected of her.
But even so, her recognition of the photograph was certainly a
remarkable incident. Our wonder, however, is somewhat diminished
when we learn, as Mr. and Mrs. Z. informed me, that Colonel Y.
llad been acquainted with the deceased lady whom the phantasm was
supposed to represent. Now Colonel Y. had been present at the
various seances at which the figure had appeared: and as it appears,
from Mr. Z.'s account, that those who were privileged to see the figure
described at the time what they saw to the others, we can conceive it
possible that the hallucination might take a definite outline under the
guidance of leading questions and unconscious hints from the Colonel,
who of all the spectators was likely to take the most interest in the
details of the appearance. It is possible also that thought-transference
may have aided in the development of the phantasm, or in the subse,-
quent recognition of the photograph. But this supposition is, perhaps,
under the circumstances hardly necessary.
The incident of the recognition of the photograph is thus deprived
()f much of its significance; but apart from this the story presents some
remarkable features. The hallucinations in this case were unusually
Digitized by Google
282 Phanta81n8 of the Dead [Nov. 29.
frequent and unusually persistent; and the appearance of a phantasm.
on several distinct occasions, and for a period of certainly some minutes,
to three persons simultaneously, is a phenomenon perhaps without
parallel in our records. The appearance of a phantasm at a predicted
time is also yery unusual, if not unique, except when it is the result
of post-hypnotic suggestion. There are some parallel cases of figure.o;
seen by several persons simultaneously at a seance, where there wa.s
no ground for suspecting fraud. On the whole, it seems possible that
the conditions of a Spiritualistic seance, admittedly favourable to the
production of abnormal states, may also be favourable to the pt·o-
duction and communication of hallucinations.
It will be noticed, moreover, that here also the phenomena began
with noises, which appear to have exercised a very disturbing influence
on the butler, \V. L. Moreover, the two chief witnesses, and the only
witnesses who saw any apparition when alone, appear to have been un-
uS\lally subject to impressions of the kind, and were not highly educated
persons. I learnt incidentally from another source that the house had
been known some 20 years before to old inhabitants of the village as
the "Haunted House," though no rumour of its reputation appears
to have reached Mr. Z. or his servants. In such a case it seems
possible that the phenomena may have been started in the minds of
susceptible subjects by telepathic impressions received from the outside.
As a correspondent suggests, in writing of another case, "the combined
expectancy of a rural population may haye uncomfortable telepathic
consequences."
In the absence, however, of Mrs. M.'s evidence, and of a written
statement from Mrs. Z., both of which it is hoped to obtain on some
future occasion, the evidence in this case can hardly be considered com-
plete.
The last case will lead us by an easy transition to that large class
of narratives, of which many illustrations have been given in the last
two Parts of the Proceedings, where the hallucinatory impression
appeal'S to be directly referable to the agency of some known deceased
persoll. The evidence presented in many of these cases is of such
quality as to compel our very careful consideration. The main incidents
narrated are in many cases amply corroborated.: and the details, it
must be admitted, appear in most cases to be recorded with care. The
question is no longer, therefore, so much of the acceptance of the
.evidence as of its interpretation.
For the sake of clearness, I will discuss the several narratives
brought forward arranged under sepamte heads, in accordance with
the various interpretations, or, rather, modifications of one primary
interpretation, which I would suggest for them.
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] from, .Anothe1' Point of View. 283
..4.. Cases Explicable by t/1,8 "Latency" of a Telepathic I mpresai011.
In some of the cases (e.g., Proceedings, Vol. V., Case IV., p. 412 ;
Case IX., p. 432; Case XX., p. 455), the exact time of the death being
indeterminate, it is possible to refer the phantom to telepathy from
the mind of the still living agent. This explanation may, indeed, be
hazarded in all cases where the agent was personally known to the per-
cipient, if we admit the possibility of a telepathic impression lying
latent for a few houl'S or days, or even weeks. (Proceedings, Vol. III.,
Case of Mr. Wambey, p. 91 (G. 357); Case of Julin. X., p. 92 (G. 477).
Proceedings, Vol. V., Case I., p. 408; Case II., p. 409 ; Case III., p. 412 ;
Case VII., p. 420; Case X., p. 434; Case XIX., p. 453; Case XXII.,
p. 461 ; Case XXVI., p. 468, et seq.) It is true that we have little posi-
.tive evidence for the latency of a telepathic impression. But there are
a few of our so far recorded cases which unquestionably point to
such an interpretation, though in these cases the latency appears
to have been only of a few houl'S' dumtion. Miss x.'s researches,
however, in crystal-vision (Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 486, et seq.) prove
that normal sense impressions received by the unconscious self may
remain latent for a day or more before emerging into consciousness ;
and may then be externalised as hallucinatory images. So, too, ideas
communicated to a. subject in the hypnotic tmnce may remain latent
for many months, and may then become externalised either in a pre-
enjoined action or in a sensory hallucination. If we may rely on the
oft-quoted case of the girl, once servant to a Hebrew scholar, who yeal'S
afterwards, in an access of delirium, astonished her attendants by recit-
ing Hcbrew words and sentences, we have an instance of sensory
impressions origillally recorded, it is probable, by unconscious centres,
coming to the surface in a pathological condition. And it is note-
worthy that in one of the cases now under review (Proceedings, Vol.
V., Case II., p. 410) the percipient was in a pathological condition,
i.e., recovering from childbirth. And in another case (Proceedings,
Vol. V., Case X., p. 434) the percipient was opemting with planchette,
an occupation which is known to facilitate the emergence of
unconscious impressions. So, too, in the small group of cases
(Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 92, &c.) where the percipient on his
deathbed becomes aware of the death of some friend, his pathological
condition may be supposed to have aided in the development of
a telepathic impression received at the time of the death. In
cases, however, where news of the death has been intentionally with-
held from the percipient by those around him, it seems easiest to refer
the supernormal intelligence to direct communication from their minds,
admittedly more or less pre-occupie<l with the news. Finally we must
bear in mind that from the very nature of the case it would be almost
Digitized by Google
2841 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29,
impossible to obtain conclush'e evidence of the latency of a telepathic
impression for any lengthened period. We can hardly, therefore, be
justified in assigning any Procrustean limits to the operation of this
cause. At all events, in our present ignorance, to postulate an unknown
cause is more hazardous than to assume an unproved extension of the
operations of a familiar agency.
In some of these cases, however, the explanation more directly sug-
gested bythe facts is that of thought-transference from persons still living
at the time of the vision. This is most obvious in Case VII. (Proceedings,
Vol. V., p. 420), which I have, for convenience, included under this head,
although the dead persons were personally unknown to the percipient,
because there is no assertion that the faces were recognised in the dream.
A Quaker lady in England has a clairvoyant dream of a horse and cart,
with two young women unknown to her, sinking in deep water, and sub-
sequently discovers that her dream occurred but a few hours after the
death of an unknown niece and her companion in Australia, in the man·
ner indicated in the dream. Here, as indeed is suggested by Mr. ~Iyers,
the dream may well be supposed to have had its origin in the mind of the
percipient's brother, whose thoughts in his grief and agitation would be
likely to tum towards his relatives in England. In Case XXII. (Vol.V.,
p. 461) Mr. K. sees an apparition of his father lying in his coffin on the
day and at the hour, as he states, when his father was actually buried.
This choice of a time, inexplicahle if we refer the vision to the action of
the dead man, is seen to be peculiarly appropriate if we trace its
origin to the minds of the mourners at the graveside. In Case XIX.
(Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 453), that impression may have come from the
mother of the dead. child. In Case II. (Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 410),
the father of the percipient is said to have known of the death, and to
have known also that the news of the death would be of interest to the
percipient.
The very remarkable story of General Barter and the spectral
cavalcade (Proceedings, Vol. V., Case XXVI., p. 468, et seq.) seems to
come under the same head. It is not inconceivable, that is, that the
vision was due to the development of a latent image, since the figure
represented the elead man as he was during life. It seems more plausible,
however, to attribute it to telepathy from Lieutenant Deane, who had
been well acquainted with the deceased during the last few months of his
life, and who hael left the percipient but a few minutes before. On
the assumption that the vision had been due to the direct action of the
deceased, its coincidence with Lieutenant Deane's visit remains unex-
plll.ined. Another. feature brought out prominently in the case, but
which is common to all these stories, is that the vision is seen from the
outside; as it would appear, that is, not to the principal actor, but to an
interested spectator. It may even be suggested that, in some of the
Digitized by Google
1889.] from .Awther PO'int of View. ·285
<:&ses where an apparition is seen at the time of death in the clothes
actually then worn by the decedent, or in the actual circumstances of
death, the origin of the vision is to be sought in the minds of the
bystanders. The difficulty of supposing the thoughts of the dying man
to be preoccupied with the idea of his own clothes would thus be
eliminated; for whilst the clothes of the dying man do occupy a
prominent position in the perception of the bystanders, they frequently
do not even ~nter into the field of vision of the man himself.
In the great majority of the cases under consideration, however, the
hypothesis of latency is clearly inadequate, and the suggestion of
thought-transference from the living requires further justification.
(B) Case8 Explicable by Collective Hallucination.
Frequently the apparition is seen by two or more persons simultane-
ously, all of whom were acquainted with the presumed agent in his
lifetime. It is admitted that the apparition in such cases is not the
person whom it resembles; that the popular ideas of the personality of
the figure seen are at fault, and that it is, in fact, a hallucinatory image.
But it is argued that the collectivity of the impression proves that
it is in some sense veridical, and serves to distinguish it from a merely
casual hallucination. We must, in such a case, it is contended, look
for the source of the apparition in the mind, or what part of it has
survived the change of death, of the person whom' the apparition
represents, and to whom, it is suggested, it bears a relation possibly
analogous to the relation between the living agents and the hallucina-
tory images discussed in Pl,antasm8 of the Living. Of course, in the
present state of our knowledge it would be rash to assert that such
a position is untenable, or even difficult. But it may be pointed out
that it involve3 not one assumption, but two. It assumes, in the first
place, the survival afte:.- death of some form of consciousness, and in
the second place, the affection by this consciousness of the minds
of persons still living. The extraneous evidence for both these
assumptions-the evidence, that is, outside the records now under con-
sideration-will be differently estimated by different inquirers. But
from the scientific standpoint no great weight can be attached to it,
and it may even be suggested that the best evidence for either
~umption is to be found in the facts which it is invoked to explain.
On the other hand, the hypothesis suggested in this paper, that
the phenomena are due to telepathy from the minds of living persons,
advances but little beyond the facts already accepted by most
members of the Society for Psychical Research. There is no question
here of the existence of the supposed agents, nor of the operation under
certain conditions of thought-transference. There is evidence that a
man can transmit the image of some inanimate object-a picture or a.
Digitized by Google
286 Phantasm8 of the Dead [~ov. 29.
card-from his own mind to that of another person. There is evidence
also tha.t he can cause a. hallucina.tory image resembling himself to
appear to another person. There is even some evidence a.lrea.dy for
the further action required by our hypothesis, the evocation of the
hallucinatory image of some person other than the agent.
It may be admitted that the evidence in this last case is at present
somewhat meagre. But it can scarcely be held that its rarity (unless,
indeed, it can be shown that we should be justified in expecting more
evidence to have been forthcoming) goes far to impair the validity of
the theory as a working hypothesis. We have noticed already (p. 284)
a case in which a dream of two dead persons may plausibly be explained
by telepathy floom the mind of a living relation. In the following
narrative, where the impression took the form of a waking vision, a
similar explanation seems almost inevitable. Few, probably, will look
for the source of this vision of the dead child and his dog elsewhere
than in the mind of the mother. The case was sent to Mr. Hodgson by
Mrs. G., on the 18th May, 1888, and was published in the Arena, an
American magazine, for February last.
• . . For nearly two weeks I have had a lady friend visiting us from
Chicago and ~t Sunday we tried the cards and in every instance I told the
colour and kind j but only two or three times waa enabled to give the exact
number.•••
I must write you of something that occurred laat night j after this lady,
whom I have mentioned above, had retired, "nd almost immediately after we
had extinguished the light, there suddenly appeared before me a beautiful
lawn and coming toward me a chubby, yellow-haired little boy, and by his
side a brown dog which closely resembled a fox. The dog had on a brass
collar and the child's hand waa under the collar just aa if he was leading or
pulling the dog. The vision was like " flash, came and went in an inatant.
I immediately told my friend and she said: "Do you know where there are
any matches 1" and began to hurriedly clamber out of bed. I struck a light,
she plunged into her trunk, brought out a book, and pasted in the front was
a picture of her little boy and his dog. They were not in the same position
that I saw them, but the dog looked exceedingly familiar. Her little boy
passed into the beyond about four years ago.
Mrs.!. F. corroborates as follows :-
May 18th, 1888.
I wish to corroborate the statements of Mrs. N. G. relative to. • . •
and her wonderful vision of my little boy, and myoId home. Mrs. G. never
laW the place, or the little child, and never even heard of the peculisr-looking
dog, which was my little son's constant companion out of doors. She never
laW the photograph, which was pasted in the back of my Bible and packed
away.
(Signed) I. F.
It is important to notice tha.t in this case the vision a.ppears to have
Digitized by Google
1889.] from. .Anothe1' Point of View. 287
been the sequel of some experiments in thought-transference, conducted
with but partial success a day or two before. It may be urged, however,
that the vision here was not completely externalised. It was a picture
which Mrs. G. saw, not a fully developed phn.ntasmal figure. In the next
case, however (L. 662),which, though remote, appears to be well attested
by contemporary evidence, an unusually life-like phantasm was seen by
two observers. The narrative was published in 1822 by H. 1\1. Weser-
manll, Government Assessor and Chief Inspectorof Roads at Dusseldorf,
&C,1 Some speculation of Mesmer's suggested to Wesermann to try to
transfer mental images to sleeping friends a.t a distance; all the more,
probably, because he had once succeeded in doing so some years before,
though at the time inclined to attribute his success to chance. He first
gives accounts of four experiments in which he was successful in thus
imposing dreams on his friends. In his fifth experiment, however, at a
distance of nine miles, he succeeded in impressing two waking percipients.
The account is in his own words.
A lady who had been dead five years, was to appear to Lieutenant --n
in a dream at 10.30 p.m. and incite him to good deeds. At half-past 10.
contrary to expectation, Herr --n had not gone to bed, but was discU88ing
the French campaign with his friend Lieutenant S. in the ante-room.
Suddenly the door of the room opened, the lady entered dressed in white,
with a black kerchief and uncovered head, greeted S. with her hand three
tin1es in a friendly lDallDer; then turned to --n, nodded to him, and
returned again through the doorway.
As this story, related to me by Lieutenant --n, seemed to be too
remarkable from a psychological point of view for the truth of it not to be
duly established, I wrote to Lieutenant S., who was living six miles away, and
asked him to give me his account of it. He sent me the following reply :-
D--n, JamUl") 11th, 1818.
, • • On the 13th of March, 1817, Herr --n came to pay mo a
visit at my lodgings about a league from A--. Ho Btayed the night with
me. After Bupper, and when we were·both undr68Bed, I was Bitting on my
bed and Herr --n was Btanding by the door of the next room on the point
also of going to bed. This was about half-past 10. We were speaking partly
about indifferent subjectsand partly about the events of the French campaign.
Suddenly the door out of the kitchen opened without a sound, and a lady
entered, very pale, taller than Herr --n, about five feet four inches in
height, strong and broad of figure, dressed in white, but with a large black
kerchief which roached to below the waist. She entered with bare head,
greeted me .with the hand three timea in complimentary fashion, turned
1 In Der Magnetinn.. urad du .(Ugemri1le WelUprache, p. 28n Itq. See the Jouma~
of IIIe Society fUl" PqcAi.cal RuearcA for Maroh, 1890, from which the above account is
ql1Oted. See alRo PAanltuml of IIIe Linng, Vol. I., p. 101, where an account is given of
the foul' dreams referred to, &/I well &8 an imperfect vel'llion of the narrativil quoted in
tbe text. The version in PAanltuml is taken from the .("""il1 fUr den Thi~
Magndimu, Vol. VL
Digitized by Google
288 Phantas'Tll8 of the Dead [Nov. 29,
round to the left towards Herr --n, and waved her hand to him three
times j after which the figure quietly, and again without any creaking of the
door, went out. We followed at once in order to discover whether there
were any deception, but found nothing. The strangest thing was this, that
our night-watch of two men, whom I had shortly before found on the
watch, were now asleep, though at my first call they were on the alert, and
that the door of the room, which always opens with a good deal of noise, did
not make the slightest sound when opened by the figure.
s.
Commenting on this story, Mrs. Sidgwick writes :-
"\Vesermann states that in his experiments he concentrated his
mind strongly on the subject to be transferred. It is much to be
regretted that so little information is given to us as to his mode of
action and as to other points. We have no reason to think that those
with whom he experimented were persons whom he had mesmerised, or
with whom he was in any way in special rapport. Lieutenant S.,
indeed, was 0. complet.e stranger to him, but this proves little, as his
impression may have been received from Lieutenant --no Again
we are left quite in the dark as to how often Wesermann tried similar
experiments, but it seems probable that he sometimes failed, since he
tells us in a letter contributed to Nasse's Zeitschrift lur P8'lJcl,iscM
Aerzle, Vol. IlL, p. 758, that he had observed that these dream-pictures
.are only transferred to the sleepers if they are of a kind to interest,
move, or surprise them. From the same source we learn that. in his
view, apparitions such as tha.t described above could seldom be pro-
duced; only, in fact, when the agent is hrought into a very emotional
.and excited state about the subject chosen to be transferred, and when
the percipient, whether owing to his physical or his mental constitu-
tion, is specially susceptible. He tells us, however, that he could relate
more experiments if spnce permitted, but that he had' found few
friends who obtained such successful results as these. In a paper in
the Arcltivlur den TMeriscl,en Magnetismus, quoted in Plumtasm8 oftlte
Living, he says tho.t only two of his friends succeeded. On the other
hand he had convinced one of his strongest opponents-&. doctor of law
-who had himself caused his daughter to dream of a sudden attack
of illness which had seized him in the night."
It cannot be contended that in any of the stories yet brought
forward the phantasm is of such a nature that it could not have emanated
from the mind of a living person as the result either of a spontaneous or
!I. premeditated effort of thought-transference, such as are illustrated in
the two narratives just given. In few, if any, of the cases can it even be
held more probable-conceding the possibility of post-mortem agency
-that the phantasm was due to such agency. In mnny cases the sug-
gested alternative is distinctly to be preferred, on the internal evidence
Digitized by Google
------------------
1889.] frm)'t .A'/lathe?' Point of View 289
alone. And it may fairly be urged that the theory which introduces
no new postulates, and which deals only with familiar agencies.
is entitled to claim prel.'edence over any other. until it can be shown
that it fails to account for the fact... }<'or this, after all, is the most
crucial test which it is, at present, in our power to apply. Will the
hypothesis of telepathy from the living furnish an equally complete
explanation of the phenomena recorded 1
Let us apply it, for instance, to the following narrative (G. 190).
which we owe to the Rev. 'V. S. Grignon, who received from Mrs.
Davis in December, 1888, a verbal account of the incident, almost
identical in terms with the narr!\tive here given :-
G. 190.
During the night of the 31st of December. 1882, I had a most remark-
able vision. I retired late, having been with my daughters to the midnight
service at the Engliah Church. Mr. Davis. whose room adjoined mine, is an
invalid, and, 110t caring to sit up BO late, retired before I left for the church.
On my return, judging from my husband's breathing that he was asleep, I
did not inquire, as I usually did, if he wished auything. I fell aaleep at once,
b\lt was awakened by all unusual light in my room. I sprang up in a
tremor, exclaiming, "What is it1" and saw gliding by my bed the figure of an
elderly person; it passed through the closed door into Mr. Davis's room. I
fell asleep and did not wake agaiu till morning. I should say that, living as
we did in the Tez de cha1usee, my shutters were clOBed, and the heavy
curtains drawn and pin11ed together, so that no light could enter from the
street. Owing to the fact that the next day was the first day of the year,
and the news our papers gave us of Gambetta's death, the incident was
forgotten until after dinner; we dined at six. I was still at the table, Mr.
Davis had gone into the drawing-room, when he said to my youngest
daughter, .. Tell your mother a ghOBt visited me last night; she is not the
only one they honour." For a moment I could 110t speak; my apparition
was remembered, and I was, I confeBB, frightened by the remarkable
coincidence that Mr. Davis should have seen the same figure that I saw, and
in whom he recognised his mother. I ought to say that Mrs. Davis had been
de:ul then 10 years, and that we had not spoken of her for a long time.
Nothing occurred after the vision. C. J. DAVI!l.
In reply to a question from Mr. Grignon, Mrs. Davis adds, in the
same letter :-
I have had similar visions but have always attributed them to indigestion.
This case, however, is BOmewhat different, appearing, as it did, to Mr. Davis
also.
Florence, Pension Laurent.
Felml4ry 2lat, 1889.
Mr. Davis, whose account is enclosed in the same letter, writes :-
On the night between the 31st of December, 1882, and New Year's Day
of 1883, I was awakened from a quiet sleep by a light which seemed to come
in at the door leading to my wife's chamber, and immediately a figure
appeared, approached the bed, and leaned down as if to kiss me, and
Digitized by Google
290 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29.
suddenly passed away, but not before I had recognised in the features of
the apparition those of my mother, who died in 1872, aged 81. The next;
day I recollected this visit and said to Mrs. D., "I can see ghosts as well as
you; I saw one last night." And thereupon I related the circumstances to
her. She exclaimed, "I was awakened by the appearance of the same
figure and I knew it to be your mother," whom she had known practically all
her life. Nothing came of the vision.. I never had any other, before or since,
worth relating, certainly none that I can recall. G. H. DAVIS.
In forwarding the account to us on the 25th February, 1889, Mr.
Grignon writes, with reference to the discrepancies in the two
accounts :-
A more important difference lies in his stating that his wife said at the
time, "I knew it to be your mother," whereas she does not say that she
recognised the figure at the moment of seeing it, describing it merely 38
"the figure of an elderly person." During her conversation with me I
questioned her on this point and clearly recollect her saying that the face of
the figure 8.8 it pa.ssed W8.8 not turned to her, and that she did not absolutely
recognise it, but she seems to have had at the time an indefinite sort of
impreuitm of its being her husband's mother. Probably this impression
would have been strengthened by what her husband saw, and with many
persons would have rapidly grown into 8. cerlainty that she knew the figure.
I think it speaks well for her accuracy that she adheres still to her original
recollections of the fact.
The clue to the interpretation of the incident appears to lie in Mrs.
Davis's statement that she has had other hallucinations, which she
believes to have been purely subjective; and that, but for the accident
of her husband's sharing it, she would have classed as subjective the
experience above described. But if we make the assumption that a.
hallucination can be telepathically transferred: that is, if we suppose
that an idea, which is so exceptional in its vividness as to affect the
external organs of sense, is equally capable with other less vivid
ideas-say of a card or a diagram-of being transferred from one mind
to another, this difficulty disappears. The figure seen by Mrs. Davis
may still have been a purely subjective hallucination, and her hus-
band's vision merely the reflection of hers. Whether Mrs. Davis did
or did not believe herself at the time to recognise the figure seems
immaterial. On the first supposition she transferred to Mr. Davis the
image of II. figure long familiar to them both; on the other, the trans-
ferred image was slightly modified in its passage through Mrs. Davis's
mind.
Mr. Myers has several cases which come under this head. (Pro-
ceedings, Vol. V., Case XII., p. 437 ; Case XIV., p. 440; Case XV.,
p. 442-the figures here being on most occasions unrecognised ;-
Case XVII., p. 447; Case XVIII., p. 450.1 Proceeding8, Vol. VL
1 Case XVI., Procmlinu,. Vol. V., p. 444. has been withdrawn.
Digitized by Google
1889.] from Another Point of View. 201
Case II., p. 20; Case IV., p. 25-29; Case XII., pp. 55.) In all these
cases the fact of the death is known, and the image of the dead person,
or some hallucinatory appearance assumed to have reference to him, is
seen simultaneously or successively by two or more persons who were
acquainted with him when alive. In none of these cases is the appa-
rition of such a nature that it cannot as plausibly be referred to a
contagious hallucination as to the action of the deceased person whom
it resembles. And it will be noticed that in at least one instance
(ProceedingB, Vol. VI., Case IV., p. 26) the lady who was first to see
the figure, and who may therefore perhaps be regarded as the primary
percipient, had experienced a preyious hallucination, unshared; a cir-
CUlDstance which may be regarded as indicating some predisposition to
sensory hallucination.
(C) GaseB Involving an Element Unknown to tlUJ Percipient.
A very striking story (ProceedingB, Vol. VI., Case I., p. 17) comes
to us from the American Society for Psychical Research, in which a
brother sees an apparition of his dead sister, with a scratch on the
face, which, as it subsequently appears, was accidentally inflicted by
the mother of the dead girl as she lay in her coffin. In this case it
seems much less likely that the apparition was generated by the
deceased than by her mother, on whom the incident of the scmtch had
made, as is proved by her own admission, a painful and lasting
impression. To attribute it to the mind of the dead girl yet another
assumption, beyond the two general assumptions already referred
to, is necessary, to wit, that the dead have cognisance of their bodily
appearance, not only during life, but after deatlt. The same remarks
will apply to the case of Robert Mackenzie (quoted in ProceedingB, III.,
p. 95, et Beq.); but here it seems probable that, while the details of the
personal appearance of the corpse originated with one of the spectators,
the percipient's own mind supplied the words put into the mouth of
the phantasm in the dream. As Mrs. D., however, was actually reading
a letter announcing the death at the time of her husband's dream, it
seems possible that her mind may have originated, or at least reinforced,
the telepathic impression received by Mr. D.
(D) GaseB Involving tlUJ Transference 0/ tlte Image 0/ an
UnknOtvn PerBon.
From the last story we may pass to a class of cases which must be
admitted to be the most difficult of explanation: those, namely, in
which t.he percipient is unacquainted with the person whose phantasmal
likeness he sees. In cases where the percipient had known the dead
man by sight, it is always permissible to suppose that the hallucinatory
image (when it contains no previously unknown details) has been
Digitized by Google
292 Phantasm8 of tlte Dead [Nov. 29~
construoted from the percipient's own materials,the impulse to the con-
struction alone having come from an alien source. But in the cases now
to be considered we have to suppose the importation into the percipient's
consciousness of a phantasmal image already completed, down even to.
very Dlinute details. The difficulty may be frankly admitted; but it
is common to both hypotheses. It could only appear easier for the spirit
of a dead DIan to transmit such images, because we believe ourselves to.
know something of the limitations of ordinary human faculties, whilst
we are free to ascribtl to the de:J.d whatever powers our imagination
may feign. Of course, in such cases we must be specially on our guard
against the dramatic instinct of the imagination, and the tendency,
already referred to, to import from a subsequent description new details
into the image actually seen. And, as already pointed out, verbal
descriptions of a figure or dress are generally so vague as to readily
lend themselves to such unconscious manipulation. We may suspect,
therefore, that in many of the cases considered in this paper, the re-
semblance between the figure seen and the figure of the presumed agent
may have been exaggerated. Our numerous informants have, no doubt,
in every case given evidence in perfect good faith. To say that their
evidence is not, on that account, to be taken in all cases as accurately
representing the facts, is only to admit that they are not exempt from
the common defects of observation, memory, and judgment, in a field
where such exemption is a privilege accorded to very few. And it
must be borne in mind that in these matters human testimony is
peculiarly liable to suffer from the disturbing influence of the various
affections and emotions engaged. It would be extremely difficult, in
any particular case, to show that there is reason, on the merely general
grounds above referred to, to suspect exaggeration; and when possible~
it would, for obvious reasons, be undesirable. If, therefore, attention
is not called to these perturbing elements in every case, their effect
should, nevertheless, be allowed for in estimating the value of the
evidence. But even when so much has been said, it still seems probablo
that detailed resemblances have, in some cases, been observed. In one
case indeed, (Proceedings, Vol. V., Case V., p. (16), the phantasm was
subsequently recognised from a photograph.
A case very similar to those quot.ed by Mr. Myers is given in
P/~ntasms of tIle Living (Vol. I., Case 30, p. 214). Frances Reddell, a.
lady's-maid, is watching by the sick bed of a fellow-servant. Sho
sees enter the room the phantasm of an old woman, with a red shawl over
her shoulders, a flannel petticoat with a hole in front, and a brass
candlestick in her hand: and subsequently recognised in the mother of
the sick woman the original of her vision. To those who hold that
these phantasms resembling the dead are in some fashion produced
by the dead, the figure seen by Frances Reddell will, no doubt, be
Digitized by Google
1889.] from .Another Point of vuiw. 293
attributed to the agency of Mrs. Alexander, suffering some spiritual
attraction to the bedside of her dying daughter. To my thinking, the
vision probably originated in a dream of the dying girl herself, trans-
ferred to her companion, and extemalised as a sensory hallucination.
The same explanation would apply to the stories, of not infrequent
occurrence in the annals of the older members of the Society of Friends
and elsewhere, of visions seen by the watchers at the bedside of the
dying. The following case, which comes to us from a trustworthy
source, may be quoted as an illustration.l
G.134.
The story was given to us, in February, 1883, by Miss Walker, of
48, Pembroke-road, Clifton, Bristol, as her recollection of what she had
heard from her cousin, Miss Emmeline Bingley, the percipient, who is
now dead. Later, Miss Walker writes:-
The event narrated took place when she was about 20, and must have
happened in (I think) 1844 or 1845. She told me her story very simply and
ri"a 11OC4l. She also told it separately to my elder sister in precisely the same
terms. It was I who threw it, for brevity's sake, into the narrative form.
The story is as follows :-
My father and mother had many children; most of us died in infancy;
Susanna survived, and Charlotte and myself. Owing to these many gaps.
Susanna was 20 years older than I was. Father's was an entailed estate, and
the deaths of two SODS, William, who died in boyhood, and John, who died
in infancy, had been the great disappointment of his life. Susanna remem·
bered both the boys, but William was born and died long before my time, and
John died at about two years old when I was the baby. Of William there was
no likeness, but you know John's picture well, a well-painted full-length oil
picture representing a toddling babe in white frock and blue shoes, one of
my father's prize greyhounds crouching beside him, and an orange rolling
at his feet. • . • • I was grown up, about 20, Susanna was 40, and
Charlotte about 30 years old. Father was declining, and we lived together
contented and united in a pleasant house on the borders of Harrogate
Common. On the day about which I am writing Charlotte was unwell ; she
had complained of a chill, and the doctor recommended her to keep in bed.
She was sleeping quietly that afternoon, and Susanna sat on one side of her
bed, and I sat on the other; the afternoon sun was waning, and it began to
grow dusky, but not dark. I do not know how long we had been sitting there,
but by chance I raised my head and I saw a golden light above Charlotte's
bed, and within the light were enfolded two Cherubs' faces gazing intently
upon her. I was fascinated and did not stir, neither did the vision fade for
a little while. At last I put my hand &er088 the bed to Susanna, and I ooly
said this word, "Susanna, look up !" She did SO, and at once her counten-
ance changed. "Oh, Emmeline," she said, "they are William and John."
1 Given in PkantG,m, of eke Living, VoL II., p. 629.
'U
Digitized by Google
294 Phanta..871l8 of the Dead [Nov. 29,
Then both of us watched on till all faded away like a washed-out picture j and
in a few hO\lrll Charlotte died of ludden infiammation.
There is no need here to suppose that the vision represented in any
senae the spiritual presence of the dead brothers. It may more easily,
and with greater probability, be referred t() the thoughts of the dying
woman. So, in a story communicated by the late Mr. Archer Gurney
to the Church Times some years ago, the vision of a crown is said to have
appeared to the mourners nt the bed of a dying child. The cases
in which music is said to have been heard at the bedside of the dying
are susceptible of a similar interpretation; the images traditionally
associated with death thus receiving a sensory emOOdiment. That such
sounds have their origin, in some cases at least, in the minds of the
living the following narrative tends to show :-
L.1070.
From Mr. Septimus Allen, Steward of Haileybury College.
In the year 1872 I was living in Leeds, where I had the lupervision of
~>ne department of an engineering works. At thil time one of my wife'l
brothers was living with us. He was a journeyman painter, employed by a
firm of decorators in Leedl. My wife had two brothers and one sister who
were all deaf and dumb. This one, John, had taken a levere cold from
having got wet in the early morning, and working all dsy in his dsmp
clothes. A very bad attack of rheumatic fever followed. Can you imagine
a man sufl'ering from intenle rheumatic pains, Iwollen hands and arms, sO
that he could not use his fingers, which were hil ooly means oj cotl~ion 1
if 10, you call picture one of the moat distressing casel, and one, I hope, we
may never lee the like. Not a pain could he deacribe, not a wish could he
make known. He got worse, and we were told by the doctor that we
should send for any members of the family that might desire to lee him.
At this time, one afternoon, my wife and I were at tea (our two children
were out), when we heard pleasant musical BOunds in John'l bedroom;
al he was the only person upstairs, we were very much lurprised, and
went up at once. We found him lying upon his back, with his eyes fixed
upon the ceiling, and his face lighted up with one of the brightest of lmiles.
We did not disturb him, but I fetched in a gentleman, who was our next-
door neighbour, to witne88 what we felt to be a Itrange occurrence. After
BOme little time (I cannot say how long now), Jack awoke, and used
the words "Heaven" and " beautiful," as wellas he could by the motion of
his lips and facial expreuion. He also told us, in the same manner,
upon becoming more conscious, that his brother Tom and lister Harriet
were coming to see him, and (considering that they were also mutes) we
felt that of all members of our family residing in Herts or Cambs, these two
were the least likely to undertske luch a journoy, but in (perhaps) fifteen
minutes, a cab drove up to the door, from which they alighted. They had
sent no intimation, nor had anyone else, of their coming. After his
partial recovery, when able to write or converse upon his fingers, he told us
that he had been allowed to see into Heaven, and hear music, it was
beautiful
Digitized by Google
1889.] from Another Point of View. 2:>5
What were those musical sounds, and how did Jack know that Tom and
Harriet were travelling 1 SEPTWVS .ALI.BN.
Haileybury College, March, 1889.
In answer to our questions Mr. Allen writes further :-
1. I have always had the idea that the music was as if instrumental, and
~omposed of many chords, such as I im!lgine would be produced by a strong
(lurrent of wind upon a harp.
2. I cannl)t say how long it lasted, or whether we heard it after we got;
into the room; our atliention was given to John, who we thought was dying.
3. [The addreBS of the house was] Pottery House, Hunslet, Leeds. Not;
one of a row: it was a portion of what had been a large house, situate in
Jack-lane. This rough plan is as near correct as I can make it now.
Railway'
Jack Laue
A B
D
A. HoUBe of Mr. Britton, sen. B. House of Mr. Alfred Britton. C. HoUBe of Mr.
Allen. D. Garden ditto. E. Yard ditto.
The music could not have come from next door or from the street.
4. My brother-in-law died about six years ago.
5. [The gentleman referred Iio was] Mr. John Britlion, Pottery House,
Hunslet. We have not heard anything of the Britlions for some years, and
I think that we heard of Mr. John Britlion's death eight or nine years ago.
At the time of my brother-in-Iaw's illneBS a young clergyman was living with
us, and my wife says that while I ran for Mr. John Britlion this clergyman
went for the doclior.
6. I do not think [my brother-in-law] ever heard; he used toleel sound
-vibrations, caused (say) by an engine whistle at a railway station, or the
report of a gun, but J do not think he ever heard as we do.
7. I think he must have been in some kind of a trance; his eyes were
open.
u 2
Digitized by Google
296 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29,
The Rev. L. S. Milford, of Haileybury College, kindly furnishes the
following notes of an interview which he held withMr. and Mrs. Allen:-
(1) Neither Mr. nor Ml'II. Allen have ever had any other auditory
hallucination.
(2) As to the nature of the BOund, Mn. Allen says it resembled
singing-sweet music without distinguiahable words. She can-
not say the number of notes, but the sounds continued until
she reached the door of the bedroom. She went upstail'8 8S
soon as she heard the music.
Mr. Allen's impression is that the BOund was that of an iEolean
harp---i.e., not the ordinary staccato notes of the harp, but the
sustained full notes as of an organ.
Mrs. Allen's Statement.
My brother was deaf and dumb from his birth, but could make a few
blarticulate noises which those accustomed to him could interpret. No one
else would have regarded them as words. He had been lying ill for about a.
fortnight with rheumatic fever, and was so weak as to be unable to talk on
his fingel'll to me as he usually did. I had thought him that morning rather
stronger, and as the iu)provement continued I left him to go down to tea.
I had been sitting in the kitchen about five or six minutea-as the open
staircase communicated with my brother's bedroom I could easily hear any
noise-when I was startled by sounds of singing, as I thought, and im-
mediately went upstairs, when the sounds ceased just before I reached the
bedroom door. When I entered the room my brother was lying with hia
eyes wide open, gazing into the far conler of the room, away from the door.
He evidently did not hear me coming in, and continued for fully twenty
minutes in this state. Although I stood close to him he did not seem to Bhow
any Bign of recognition, but went on smiling, and his lips moved 1\8 though
he were in conversation with Bomeone, although no BOund came from them.
We had acnt Mr. Johnacn, the curate who was lodging in the house, to
fetch the doctor, as Boon as I had called Mr. Allen upstairs. When the
doctor came, my brother was in the 8I\me condition 1\8 that in which I had
found him, but after the doctor had given him a teaspoonful of medicine
(ether 1) he Beemed to revive and made me understand in hiB inarticulate
speech that he had been to Heaven and had acen "Iota of angels," his
mother, hiB Bister, and his little brother. All thiB came out in broken,
disjointed utteranceB. After this he Beemed to fall into a drowsy Btate, but
this appeared to have been the crisis of the fever, and he began gradually to
regain strength. He could not, however, walk about at all for more than
three months.
As soon as he could use hiB hands he began at different times to tell me
more details of what he had seen. I cannot remember more than I have
stated above, but I am Bure that he told me all this at first, although the
details were fuller afterwards. He also used the words "beautiful music,"
but I cannot 8I\y whether he heard sweet BOunds or only saw "harpers harp-
ing with their harps."
I told Ml'II. Britton-ollr next·door neighbour-of the music that we
Digitized by Google
1889.] frO'n~ .Anothe1· Point of View. 291
heard, and my impression is that Mr. Britton came in alld BatO my brother
All he lay.
In March, 1883, about five hours before my brother's death, while I and
the nurse were watching in the room, my brother, looking just as he did on
the former occasion, smiled, and said quite distinctly and articulately,
•• Angels," and •• Home."
[I have taken this statement from Mrs. Allen.
L. S. Mu.FoRD,
Clerk in Holy Orders,
March 11th, 1889. Assistant Master in Haileybury College.]
The Rev. J. B. Johnson writes :-
I remember the case of the deaf mute to which you allude. I was lodging
in the house at the time. But I certainly did not hear any strange music,
nor do I remember hearing either Mr. or Mrs. Allen speak of it. Deaf
mutes sometimes make strange noises in their attempts to speak, but such
sounds are by no means musical.
26, De Beauvoir-road, N. J. B. J.
Febrllary 28th, 1889.
As the patient in this case survived for some years, the sounds heard
(the hallucinatory nature of which is clearly shown in the narrative)
cannot with any plausibility be referred to post-mortem agency.
There is one narrative under this head (Vol. VI., Case III., p. 22)
in which the explanation ",bove suggested seems peculiarly applicable.
Madame de Gilibert, as a child, sees the phantasmal figure of a woman,
in which she recognises, from a verbal description furnished "many
years afterwards," a great-aunt whom she had never known. The
figure was seen in the house of Lord Egremont, the dead lady's brother,
and in the immediate vicinity of his rooms; and it appears from the nar-
rative that Lord Egremont died shortly after the appearance. A very
similar story is that printed as Case II. in the same paper (p. 20); but
in this case the figure, representing a lady who had been dead some
years, was seen by three persons simultaneously, all of whom had been
.acquainted with her in life. The vision here appeared a few hours only
before the death of a sister of the lady whom the phantasm was sup-
posed to represent. In both these cases it is suggested that the appari-
tions, if correctly described, may have been due to thought-transference
from the dying relative. In the other C&.<;es under this head (Proceedinfls,
Vol. V., Cases V., VI., VIII., XI., XXI., XXIII., XXIV., XXV.;
Vol. VI., Cases XI., XIII., XIV.) the connection of the percipient with
the presumed agent is a purely local one. The phantasm appears to a
stranger in some locality with which the deceased was connected in his
lifetime; and (except in the one case where a photograph is recognised)
the likeness between the phantasJil and the deceased is only established
by a subsequent comparison of the description given by the percipient
Digitized by Google
298 Phanta8ms of the Dead [Nov. 29.
with the description given by others of the personal appearance of the
deceased. The influence of the locality on the receptivity of the per-
cipient presents a real difficulty. It may, of course, be argued that this
influence is only apparent. The older geologists were inclined to infer.
from the extreme hardness and durability of the primitive rocks, the
prevalence, in earlier periods of geological history, of widely different
conditions of deposition and stratification. They failed to see that the
superior hardness of the surviving strata was the condition of their sur-
vival, and that all less durable rocks must, in the course of ages, have
been disintegrated. So it may be argued that apparitions resembling
deceased persons Dlay be comparatively frequent, but that it is only
when some connection can be traced that the record attracts any atten-
tion. The great majority have never found a sacred bard. Or, con-
versely, that these phantasms were in reality only casual hallucinations.
which have attained a spurious importance through an accidental
coincidence. Candid readers will probably, however,· admit that the
coincidences in such cases are too detailed and too well authenticated to
be lightly explained away.
For, in the first place, there are several instances already published
of telepathic affection where there was no apparent link to connect the
agent and percipient. Intimation of the deaths of three Dukes-Cam-
bridge, Portland, and Wellington-was thus conveyed to complete
strangers, as it were by an impersonal rumour. The head master of a.
grammar school at Leicester saw in a. vision the irruption of water into
the Thames Tunne1.1 This last ca.se bears some analogy to the follow-
ing narrative, which has recently been given to us; but in this case,
if actually telepathic, it seems possible that the nearness of the
percipient to the scene of the disaster may have in some way aided the
impression. Miss Y. writes to us from Perth on the 19th January.
1890:-
L. 1074.
One Sunday evening I was writing to my sister, in my own room down-
stairs, and a wild storm was raging round the house [in Perth]. Suddenly
an eerie feeling came over me, I could not keep my thoughts on my letter.
ideas of death and disaster haunted me so persistently. It was a vague but;
intense feeling; a Budden ghastly realisation of human tragedy, with no
" where," "how," or "when" about it.
I remember flying upstairs to Beek refuge with mother, and I remember
her soothing voice saying, "Nonsense, child," when I insisted that I was sure
" lots of people were dying."
We both thought it was a little nervous attack, and thought no more
about it. But when we heard the news of the Tay Bridge disaster next day.
we both noticed (we received the news separately from the maid when she
1 PAant_ oj the Lit..nu. Vol. II., pp. 365-870.
Digitized by Google
=
1889.] f1'om .Another Point of View. 299
came to wake us) that the time of the accident coincided with my strange
experience of the evening before.
We spoke of the "coincidence" together, but did not attach much
importance to it.
I have never had any experience like it, before or since; but I am
nervous and imaginative, frightened of the dark and of ghosts, so I don't
think my Tay Bridge presentiment is of much value. .A. wild wind like that
is very uncanny to listen to when you are sitting alone, and is quite enough
in itself to set a nervous imagination to work.
Mrs. Y., in a letter of the same date, corroborates her daughter's
account :-
On the night of the Tay Bridge disaster E. was sitting alone in her
room, when she suddenly came running upstairs to me, saying that she had
heard shrieks in the air; that something dreadful must have happened, for
the air seemed full of shrieks. She thought a great many people must be
dying. Next morning the milk-boy told the servant that the Tay Bridge was
down.
In a later letter, Miss Y. adds:-
Mother says she cannot remember my having any other experience of the
kind. It happened before 9 p.m., we think.
We learn from the Time3, of December 29th, 1879(Monclay), that the acci-
dent took place on the previous evening (28th). The Edinburgh train, due
at Dundee at 7.15 p.m., Cl'08lled the bridge during a violent gale. It was
duly signalled from the Fife side as having entered on the bridge for Dundee
at 7.14. It was seen running along the rails, and then suddenly there was
observed a flash of fire. The opinion was the train then left the rails and
went over the bridge.
In all the cases, however, under this head published by :\1r. Myers,
the influence of the locality is clearly indicated, and the difficulties of
finding an explanation are, so far, lessened.
These difficulties, moreover, are by no means insuperable. Readers
of Plw.ntasmB qf tIle Living will remember several similar cases which
are there discussed; and will remember also Mr. Gurney's suggested
explanation,l that a similarity of immediate mental content between
the percipient and the agent is the condition of the impression. In the
ordinary case of an apparition at the time of death, e.g., of a mother to
her son, the condition of the appearance to that particular percipient,
rather than to the man in the street, should on this hypothesis
be sought in the community of intellectual and emotional experi-
ences which may be presumed to exist between near relations who have
passed a great part of their lives in the same environment. In the
cases now under consideration the substitute for such far-reaching com-
munityis to be sought in the immediate and transitory occupation of
both percipient and agent-the one in present sensation, the other in
1 Vol. II., pp. 267·9.
Digitized by Goo~
300 , Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29~
memory-with the same scene. Such partial community of perception,
by a kind of extended 888Ociation of ideas, tends, under this hypoth~
towards more complete community, and the agent thus imports into
the sensorium of the percipient the idea of his own presence in the
Bcene which forms part of the present content of both minds. Whether
this hypothesis be accepted or not, it is clear that the difficulty which
it seeks to eliminate is common to both theories; since both reject the
materialistic explanation of a physical presence in space, which the
facts before us a.t first sight seem to suggest, and both rely upon some
kind of affection of mind by mind. The difficulty cannot, therefore,
fairly be urged by the adherents of one theory against the other.
The following case, taken from the article in the Arena before
referred to, will serve as a typical example of these narratives. Mr.
Hodgson writes: "We obtained the case at the close of 1888 through
the kindness of Dr. S. T. Armstrong, from a lady who is unwilling that
her name should be used."
One night in March, 1873 or 1874, I can't recollect which year, I was
attending on the sick bed of my mother. About eight o'clock iu the evening
I went into the dining-room to' fix a cup of tea, and on tuming from the
sideboard to the table, on the other side of the table before the fire, whicl)
W88 burning brightly, 88 W88 alao the gu, I 88W standing, with bis hands
clasped to his side in tme military fashion, a soldier of about thirty yean of
age, with dark, piercing eyes looking directly into mine. He wore a small
cap with standing feather, his costume was alao of a soldierly style. He did
not strike me as being a spirit, ghost, or anything uncanny, only a living
man; but after gazing for fully a lnillute I realised that it W88 nothing of
earth, for he neither moved his eyes nor his body, and in looking closely I
could see the fire beyond. I W88 of course startled, and yet did not run out
of the room. I felt stunned. I walked out rapidly, however, and turning to
the servant in the hall 88ked her if she 88W anything; she 88id not. I went
into my mother's room and remained talking for about an hour, but never
mentioned the above subject for fear of exciting her, and finally forgot it
altogether. Returning to tlJe dining-room, still in forgetfulness of what had
occurred, but repeating 88 above the turning from sideboard to table in act
of preparing more tea, I looked casually towards the fire and there I 88W the
soldier again ; this time I W88 entirely alarmed, and tIed from the room in
haste; called to my father, but when he came, he saw nothing. I am of a
nervoua temperament, but W88 not specially SQ that night, W88 not reading
anything exciting, had never heard any story about this incident at all before.
Four years after, however, my brother attended a boys' school next door to
this house and an old gentleman told stories of the old houses in the neigh-
bourhood during the war; and one W88 about a soldier who W88 murdered
and thrown in the cellar. My brother told it, 88 a story cOlmected witlJ our
old home, not 88 relating to my experience; for he being very young then,
I don't think it was communicated to him. The family, however, were all
impressed by the coincidence. This ia 88 near the exact state of facta as
'tis possible to write after the lapse of so many years.
Digitized by Google
1889.] from .Anothe1' Point of Vie~v. 301
In reply to inquiries we learn that the figure of the soldier occupied
precisely the Bame poaition on both occasions of its appeamnce, that it W8II
visible from different points of the room, and that the lady continued to Bee
the figure at the time that her father was unable to see anything.
Even if the accuracy of the statements as regards the past history
of the house could be established on unquestionable evidence, we
.should hardly be entitled to infer so much as the probability of po,t-
1nortem. agency. But, in fact, the accuracy of the statements is
immaterial. Taking the narrative as it stands, it is quite sufficient,
for the interpretation suggested in this paper, that there was in
existence an old gentleman who told stories about this and other
houses in the neighbourhood, and induced some of his auditors to
believe them.
Passingto the stories previously published, it will be noticed that in
Case XXI. (Vol. V., p. 460), the apparition of the Bishop of St. Brieuc,
as seen by the tenant of his room, at the hour of his funeral, is a
suggestive coincidence, as already pointed out, on the one view, but
apparently without significance on the other. In all the other cases, it
will be noticed, there are other persons resident in the immediate vicinity,
in most cases in the same house, to whose agency the phantasm may be
attributed. As in not one of these cases is there any obvious, or, indeed,
readily conceivable purpose to be attained by the apparition, the
assumption that it did so originate seems, apart from the considerations
previously urged, to involve less improbability; for it can he shown
that in many cases the minds of the living would be much occupied
with the image of the deceased. When, for instance (as in Proceeding'
V., Case V., p. 416; Case VI., p. 418; Case XI., p. 436; Case XXIII.,
p. 462; Case XXIV., p. 464), a guest is occupying a room in which
a former tenant had died within a. comparatively rece~t period, that
circumstance is likely to have a disturbing effect on the mind of the
host or other inmates of the house. And even when, as in Case
XI. (Vol.· VI., p. 53), where the phantasm of Voltaire is seen,
the death is a matter of history, the knowledge that the apparition
had previously been seen in the same room is likely to exercise the
minds of the in.mates on the visit of a new comer.
In some cases the manner of the appearance inevitably suggests the
mind of the spectator. In Case VI., for instance, the figure of an old
woman, in "asowbacked mutch,"a drab-coloured petticoat, and a checked
shawl, is seen lying on a bed outside the bed-covering, with her legs
drawn up closfl to her body, and her face turned to the wa.ll. This
attitude, though natural enough if the vision originated in the mind
of the neighbour who had actua.lly found the" old wife" on her death-
bed in that position, is difficult to reconcile with its attribution to
the agency of the dead woman.
Digitized by Google
302 PhantaSms of the Dead [Nov. 29,
In Case VIII. (Vol. V., p. 422), an apparition of an elderly gentle-
man, which was ascertn.ined by subsequent description to resemble
Dr. R., deceased some years before, was seen by an inmate of the
house where Mrs. R. lay dead, on the night following her death.
The vision here may be attributed to the mind of the survIving
daughter, agitated by the recent loss of the other parent. Why the
hallucination should have represented Dr. R., and not the lady
who had died a few hours before, the one theory is no more competent
to explain than the other. It will be observed that in one at least of
these cases the percipient has had another hallucination. (Vol. VI.,
Case XIII., p. 57.)
(E) Case8 wltere tAe Agency of t/~e Living i8 doubtfully indicated.
There remains a small group of cases (Proceeding8, Vol. III., p. 91. ;
Vol. V., Case I., p. 409; Case III., p. 412; Case XX., p. 455) in which
the hypothesis of living agency appears at first sight more difficult. Of
course in all these cases, as already pointed out, it is conceivable that
the impression was actually received shortly before the death of the
agent, and remained latent until a favourable opportunity offered for
its development. But such a supposition seems, under the circums~nces,
unnecessary, since the p08sibility of thought-transference from the
minds of the survivors is clearly indicated in all four stories. In the
first case Mrs. Haly saw the shadow of an absent nephew on the wall
of her room, and a few hours afterwards received by post the news of
his death in Australia. In Case I. (Vol. V.) Mr. Tandy, returning from
a visit to a friend, carried away in his pocket a newspaper. That
evening he saw an apparition of his friend Canon Robinson, and subse-
quently found his death recorded in the newspaper which lay unopened
on the table. The interval which occurred between the death and its
record has not been ascertained, but it is noteworthy that the appari-
tion occurred only after the percipient's visit to a region of newspapers.
The phantasm may, as the narrative stands, have been due to the
emergence and externalisation either of a telepathic impression
received from the donor of the newspaper, or of an unconscious sensory
impression received from the obituary column of one of the other
newspapers lying on the donor's t"ble, as in the instance recorded
in Proceeding8, Vol. V., p. 507 (No 30). I am unable on any theory to
suggest any causal connection between the occurrence of the phantasm
and the presence of the newspaper in the house.1 In Mrs. Haly's case,
however,it seems not improbablethatthere was a real connection between
the phantasm and the receipt of the annunciatory letter. It is at all
1 It is assumed in this interpretation-what is implied, though not expressly
stated in the narrative-that the obituary notioe could not have been seen until the
wrapper bad been tom off the newspaper.
Digitized by Google
1889.] f1'Om Another Point of View. 303
events possible that the news had been received by other relatives of the
deceased in England on the previous evening (by the same mail which
brought Mrs. Haly's letter), and that her vision was due to some com-
munication from their minds. If the vision were really due to the
deceased, it must be regarded as singularly unfortunate, from the
evidential standpoint, that he chose such a time for delivering his mes-
sage: a time, moreover, peculiarly inappropriate for his own purposes,
since it rendered his message practically superfluous. So in the next case
(Vol. V., Case III., p. 412), Mr. La Maistre was drowned on September
27th; his body was recovered on October 22nd, and his apparition was
seen by a friend on November 3rd. It seems to me a fact of extreme
significance that the message came, not in the course of the three or
four weeks during which the dead man was supposed to be alive and
well, but after the fact of the death was known, and when the message
itself could no longer serve any useful purpose.l So again in Case XX.,
the percipient only dreamt of. his brother's death on the fourth day
after the wreck of the vessel, and 80me /lOur8 after t/1.6 news /tad reac/ted
England.
Thus, in the only cases recorded in which'the mere communication
at the right time of the fact of the death would of itself have afforded
some evidence of the continued action of the dead, such communi-
cation is delayed until the intelligence had already reached others in
the vicinity of the percipient by normal means, i.e., until the possi-
bility of thought-transference from the living had been established.
For the present I must regard that as something more than an unfor-
tunate coincidence. .
(F) Two Case8 of E:ueptional Difficulty.
There remains to be noticed but one case of all those as yet published,
that of William Moir. (Proceeding8, Vol. VI., Case VIII., p. 35.)
William Moir, grieve on a farm near Banff, alleged that he was for some
months troubled by a constantly recurring dream of finding a corpse
on a certain spot near the farm on which he worked. Eventually he did
actually dig on the spot indicated, and unearthed a human skeleton,
which was supposed to be the remains of a man who had mysteriously
disappeared from the district some 40 or 50 years previously. We
have Moir's written statement, but he himself died some years ago.
The actual finding of the skeleton by him rests on indisputable evidence.
But the only authority cited for the mysterious disappearance many
years before is the tradition of the neighbourhood, as reported by Mrs.
1 It is true that the narrator speaks of the body 118 having been .. buried 118 an un·
known caataway" and states that "we were the only friends he (the deceaaed) had in
England." But 118 she and her family receh"ed their first authentic intimation of the
death from a notice in a newspaper, it is clear that the body of the deceased had been
identified.
Digitized by Google
3041 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29.
}Ioir. And the identification of t.he skeleton is wholly conjectural.
Moreover, as Moir never told his dream until after its fulfilment, we
have no evidence beyond his own statement that such a dream was
ever dreamt. In the absfmce, therefore,of further evidence as to the time
and circumstances in which the skeleton was placed where it was found,
and in view of the difficulty, at this interval, of ascertaining whether
or not there was any disturbance or unusual appearance in the soil to
indicate the whereabouts of the skeleton, I would suggest four alter-
native explanations of the story, one or other of which may perhaps be
considered preferable to the invocation of post-mortem agency. (1) That
the dream occurred as alleged, and was due to telepathy from the
person or persons who placed the skeleton where it was found. (2) That
the dream occurred as alleged, and was due to the prior discovery of the
skeleton by Moir in some abnormal condition, e.g., somnambulism, possi-
.bly associated with hyperresthesia. (3) That the dream never actually
occurred, but that an accidental discovery of the skeleton so powerfully
atl'ected a man of admittedly nervous temperament as to give rise to a
hallucination of memory on that point. (4) That the accidental dis-
covery of the skclet.on was, in the first instance, concealed by Moir
through some superstitious fear, and that the story of the dream was
invented subsequently to account for the discovery. Between these
various explanations it seems impossible to decide, in default of the
further evidence, which cannot now be obtained.
Finally, I subjoin an account recently received which seems to call
for special consideration in this connection. It is but rarely that
accounts of "ghostly" sounds possess much evidential value, from the
extreme difficulty of eliminating ali possible physical causes for
auditory phenomena. But in this case the hallucinatory nature of the
sowlds heard seems conclusively proved, both in the case of Mr. B.
and of Lady Z. 'Ve received the first account from the minister of S.,
a small hamlet in the south of Scotland.
G. 191.
J1d11 23rd, 1889.
It affords me much plea.sure, in answer to your letter of the 20th, which
I only received to-day, to give you an account of my experience in connec-
tion with the music in D. woods, which "does not seem due to any ordinary
source."
I have heard it, I think, four times, and always at the same place, viz.,
on the public road, which runs along the south bank of the Tweed, and which
pa.sses, at the distance of three-quarters of a mile, the old churchyard of D.
The churchyard, from which the music always seems to come, is south of the
road, and at a much higher elevation, and the intervening ground is densely
covered with wood. The first two or three times I heard the sound, it was
very faint, but sufficiently distinct to enable me to follow the swellings and
cadences. I do not know why, but on those occa.sions I never for a moment
Digitized by Google
1889.] from Another Point of View. 305
thought it was real muaic. Neither did I think it anything very unuaual,
though the tones seemed more etheresl than any I had heard before. I am
exceedingly fond of music, and, in my walks, frequently sing without sound
(if I may use such an expression) tunes, pieces, and "songs without words."
.As there was on every QCC88ion a breeze swaying the branches, I thought that
that, in my imagination, produced the result, though it did seem strange that
I never heard anything similar in other woods.
Years passed, and I had forgotten all about the matter, when I heard it
again, and I will not soon forget the last performance.
Last year I was walking up to X., to drive with Mr. and Mrs. M. to a
tennis match. When I reached the usual spot, there burst upon my ear,
from the direction of the churchyard, what seemed to be the splendid roll
of a full brass and reed band. It did not recall the former OCC88ions, and I
never for a moment doubted its reality. Aly first thought was that Sir Y. Z.
had lent his park for a Sunday-school trest, and my second was that the
band was far too good, and the music of far too high a class for such a pur-
pose. I walked on, enjoying it thoroughly, never dreaming that I was not
liatening to good ordinary music, till it suddenly struck me that the sound,
though now faint, ought to have been inaudible, as there was now between
me and the churchyard the big, broad shoulder of S. [a hill]. I began to
remember the other-infinitely less distinct-performances I had heard, and
though not superstitious enough to believe that there was anything which
could not be explained on natural grounds, I felt that the explanation was
beyond my power of discovery or conjecture. Of course, I intended imme-
diately telling my friends at X., but my attention must have been called to
something elae, as I did not do so. We drove away, and, after some time.
we all, except Mrs. M., got out to walk up a very steep hill. Walking at
the aide of the carriage I told the moat minute circumstances of my strange
experience. Mrs. M. seemed to take it very seriously, but Mr. M. ridiculed
the whole aft3ir as a freak of the imagination.
I tell you these little incidental circumstances to show you how indelibly
the events of the day are engraven upon my memory.
I had not, at that time, heard that the sounds had been listened to by
any other person, but it is now well known that they have often been heard
by Sir Y. Z., and once by Lady Z.
In the last case the music resembled that of a choir, unaccompanied by
instruments. In my case there was nothing resembling vocal music.
(Signed in full) J. L. B.
In answer to queations, Mr. B. writes on the 30th of July, 1889:-
1. I have never had any other hallucinations, so far as I know.
2. I consider it absolutely imp088ible that there could have been a resl
band at the place. It could not have been there without the permission of
Sir Y. Z. or of his manager. They were both at home at the time. They
both knew what I supposed I had heard, yet neither told me (and I see them
often) that what I supposed to be music was real music. Again, l\fr. M., the
pariah minister, would have told me. I have been here 18 years, and have
only once heard a brass band in the pariah of D.; even then it was only the-
absurd Volunteer band from P. I don't think X. is more musical than
*,. [Mr. B.'s pariah.]
Digitized by Google
306 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29,
3. The "cemetery" is the churchyard of the suppressed parish of D.,
which was divided equally between S. and X. The churchyard is in
the X. lmlf. The graves were neglected and have all, except three or four,
disappeared. The church became ruinous, and was converted into a burial
vault for the Z. family. I have been there very frequently, but never heard
anything when I was there. I have always, when I seemed to hear music,
been on the public road, at the point nearest to the churchyard. I only
guess the distance to be three-quarters of a mile, as there is no direct com-
munication between the two points. It is necessary to go round by D.
House. I shall tell Sir Y. and Lady Z. about this correspondence if I have
an opportunity before I go away for my holiday. Their experience might be
interesting.
}'rom Lady Z.
On the hot, still afternoon of July 12th, 1888, I was sitting resting with
some old ladies at our pretty little cometery chapel, within the grounds of
our house in Scotland, far away from all thoroughfare or roads. Whilst I
was talking I stopped suddenly, exclaiming, "Listen! what is that singing l'
It was the most beautiful singing I had ever heard, just a tca!'e of cathedral
chantill!1, i\ great many voices, which only lasted a few seconds. The lady
said she heard nothing, and thinking she might be deaf I said nothing. I
quite thought it might be haymakers at work, and yet I turned my head
round, for the singing was so close by. It dawned upon me, "The Scotch
need not say they cannot sing." There were several others sitting with us,
but they heard nothing (which astonished me). I said nothing more till the
evening, when I casually said to my husband, "What was that ftflging where
we were sitting this p.m. 1" thinking he would reply, •• Oh, it was the men
at work" ; but, to my astonishment, he replied, "I have often heard that
before, and it is chanting I bear." (Mark, I had not said I had heard several
voices, only singing, which was very remarkable.) And then, and not till
then, I saw that the voices could not have been human, and certainly I had
not imagined it. I had never heard such heavenly (that is the only adjective
I can use) music before, and would not have missed it for anything. I was
in no wise in a sentimental or fanciful state of mind when I heard the music,
but only talking of the common subjects of the day. This is my written
statement, and accurately true.
Signed by me (in full) A. Z.
From Sir Y. Z.
When alone at the cemetery I have occasionally heard, from withln the
chapel, sounds 88 of chanting.
(Signed) ¥. Z.
The clergyman who procured for us this story, the brother of Lady
Z., explains, in 1\ letter dated July 13th, 1889, that the cemetery
is "in 1\ secluded part of the grounds, at a good distance from
the house." He adds: .. My sister has forgotten to state if she ever
had any other similar experience; but I am pretty sure she never
had."
The case has many parallels amongst the traditional ghost stories
current in smoking-rooms and round dinner tables, and in sueh volumes
Digitized by Google
1889.] j1'oin Another Point oj View. 307
of ghostly lore as TII-e Nightside of Nature, but I doubt if our collection
contains a.nother equally well authenticated instance of this type.
The narrative, at first hearing, suggests that this ethereal music may
have been an echo from something which has survived the grave. The
surroundings themselves harmonise with such an explanation; and
there would be a peculiar appropriateness in such requiems of the
dead being audible only to the living representatives of the house,
even when others are sitting by. But how, on this theory, is the
experience of Mr. B. to be explained 1 and what significance can
be attached to the change in the character of the sounds, from a
chant of many voices to the strains of a band of wind instruments 1
Such difficulties can hardly be held fatal to the theory. But it
may be contended that there is, in truth, no need to invoke the
intervention of any but mortal agencies. Imagination, fed by tradi-
tions familiar from childhood, or the meditations natural to the place,
might suffice to suggest strains of music in the sound of the wind
"amongst the trees: a hallucinatory idea being thus built up on a basis
of external fact. Such a hallucinatory idea., once originated, could be
transferred to other susceptible persons under appropriate conditions;
and would take shape in accordance with the idiosyncrasies of the per-
cipient, or his surroundings at the moment. In Lady Z. sitting near
the vault, the original hallucination would naturally reproduce itself
unchanged. To the traveller along the high road, who could not, under
normal conditions, hear voices singing at the distance of three-quarters
of a mile, the transmitted idea would adapt itself to the circum-
stances without losing its essential character. Still, I am not disposed
to deny that, whatever the explanation, the story is suggestive and
remarkable.
To sum up: I have endeavoured to show, from a scrutiny of the
" ghost" stories collected by the Society,that there is a strong tendency
amongst the narrators of such experiences to import into their narratives
features suggestive of the presence of an alien intelligence or personality
behind the phenomena; that this tendency operates with little restraint
amongst the reporters of the experiences of others; that it has demon-
strably in some cases affected the first-hand narratives; and that its
operation may be suspected in other cases where it cannot be definitely
proved. It is contended, further, that in the great majority of cases
there is no sufficjent ground for attributing the phenomena recorded to
any source other than the minds of the percipients themselves; and
that there are various characteristics in the best authenticated narra-
tives which strongly suggest that the phenomena originate simply as
casual hallucinations.
Lastly, a series of narratives, in which the alleged resemblance
between the phantasm and some person deceased appears to rest on
Digitized by Google
308 Phantasms of the Dead [Nov. 29~
good evidence, or where the other circumstances under which the-
phantasm occurred seem to render its explanation as a casual halluci-
nation inadequate and to suggest post-7TWrtem agency, are examined in
detail, and an endeavour is made to show that in all such cases an
alternative explanation may be found in the prolonged latency and sub--
sequent emergence of an impression received from the dead man himself
before his death, or in telepathy from the minds of other persons still
living; and various circumstances are pointed out in the narratives
under review which make in favour of such explanations. It is con-
tended, therefore, that there is no sufficient justification for invoking
ptIBt-mortem agency until either the theory of telepathy from the living
has been proved inadequate to the facts, or tho limits of its operation
have been explored and defined.
There are some fine lines of Rossetti's which are directly suggested
by our subject :-
" May not this ancient room thou sitt'st in dwell
In separate living souls for joy or pain 1
Nay, all its corners may be painted plain,
Where Heaven shows pictures of some life spent well ;
And may be stamped, a memory all in vain,
Upon the sight of lidless eyes in Hell."
That is a poet's guess, and poets have before now guessed the truth_
Dut to provo the conjecture we require such and so much evidence as
is needed to establish any other scientific hypothesis. We are not
entitled to assume such a solution of the problem as may flatter our
hopes or buttress our philosophy. Rather, when we are conscious of
an intuitive desire which impels us towards belief, we are bound to
scrutinise the more rigidly the claims to our regard. It is not assuredly
from any love of that ungracious role that I haye played the part of
devil's advocate.
But we are no less bound to be on our guard against the converse
tendency, which is equally unscientific. It may be admitted that the
evidence before us is not sufficient to prove post-mortem agency; but
we are not entitled, therefore, to conclude that the possibility of such
agency is disproved. The only legitimate conclusion from such
premises is the practical one, that more evidence is required. On this
point, at any rate, I find myself at one with my colleagues. We are all
alike anxious to receive more evidence, and we are all alike prepared to
give it grateful welcome, and, as far as in us lies, impartial considera-
tion. In the present stage of our inquiry, at any rate, we are
agreed that the elaboration of theories should be subordinated to the
collection and verification of evidence. For without a far wider basis
of ascertained facts, our rival hypotheses are but houses built upon the
sand.
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] from .Another Point of View. 309'
APPENDIX.
G. 186, p. 251.-The room in which Mrs. G. had slept on the night of
her vision was for soine weeks in the summer of 1888 placed at the disposal
of members of the Society. The room, situate on the second iloor, and look-
ing on the street, was very small, and was separated from the neighbouring
room by a wooden partition. Some 10 or 12 persons occupied this room, for
about 30 nights in the aggregate, during the summer of 1888, but no wlusual
experience was recorded. The partition has now been pulled down, and the
room throWn iuto the adjoining bedroom; but the mysterious noises had
ceased some months before the change was made. Nothing, in fact, of an
unususl character appears to have taken place since the ocourrence of the
phenomena recorded in the text.
G. 187, p. 256.-The subjoined account gives the history of the house
during the tenancy of an Associate of the Society for Psychical Research
and his wife.
The house is one of a continuous row, and the frout door is approached
from the road by three or four steps. It has railings in front and steps down
an area to the basement. The rooms are arranged as follows :-
Basement: Breakfast-room in front; kitchen at back; wash-house lead.
ing from kitchen and opening into a small square garden about 20ft. by 16ft.,
planted with trees, and surrounded by other gardens.
qround Floor: Sitting-room in front; bedroom at back overlooking
garden; small spare room at end of passage.
First Floor'Landing: Servants' room-over spare room.
First Floor: Front hedroom; small slip room justover front door-empty;
back bedroom overlooking garden.
The house is situated on high ground. There are four or five ways
of getting to it from di1ferent parts of the town, and each route is up
hill. It is 10 minutes' walk from the railway station; and a very bright light
which is kept going there at night illuminates the back rooms to some extent.
Shunting operations can quite easily be heard, especially when the wind
blows from the station, and in quiet times the workmen can be heard as they
call to one another. A branch line between steep embankments runs at
right angles to the road, and twmels under it some 50 yards from the house ;
but the traflic on this line is not heavy, and we never noticed any noise from
that direction, even when trains entered or emerged from the twmel.
I occupied the "haunted house," with my wife and one maid-servant.
for a period of nearly 13! months-or, to be exact, from August 17th, 1888,
to September 27th, 1889. During our tenancy we were not disturbed by any
startling or violent msnifestations, nor did we see any apparitions. Several
visitors stayed in the house, and slept there, from time to time, mainly with
the object of having experiences if possible, but I do not think many of them
met with much reward. In one or two cases these visitors heard noises
during the night which they could not quite account for; but in most instances
the sounds were 80 trivial that little importance was attached to them.
On 137 nights visitors slept in the house-25 men and 14 women in all.
X
Digitized by Google
310 Phantasms of the Dead [No,v.29,
Sometimes both the spare bedrooms on the first floor were occupied on the
Mme nights by one or more persons; sometimes only one of the rooms was
ill use. Altogether the front bedroom was occupied by visitors on 87 nights,
and the back bedroom on 96 nighta.
Although my wife and I had no visual experiences in the house, we were
certainly confronted with a few odd noises-of a sort which would undoubt-
edly have arrested attention in any house, no matter whether it had a ghOftly
reputstion or not. I carefully made a note of every unusual event imme-
diately after its occurrence; and as the number of them is not great, I give
the complete list, taken from my diary.
1888.
August 17th.-Took up our abode in the house.
August 2Oth.-My wife heard a zinc pail, as she thought, being rattled in
the spare room at the top of kitchen stairs. There 1C(U a zinc pail in this
room, but she found it undisturbed. Later in the day she heard a similar
sound, proceeding, as she thought, from the wash-house, but the zinc pail ill
tlmt place was found in its proper position.
August 27th.-On two occasions to-day the front door bell rang violently.
The first time no one was found at the door; the second time my wife was
quick enough to detect two children in the act of running away.
" September 4th.-When I returned from town this evening my wife stated
that during the day she had twice heard a crash downstairs like fireirons
being thrown upon the kitchen stove. She ran downstairs immediately each
time, but found nothing displaced in any way. After hearing tIlls account I
went down with my wife to survey the spot, and as wo were discussing the
matter we both of us heard a loud, sharp noise, like the crsck of a whip,
proceeding apparently from the spare room at the head of the kitchen stairs.
Getting lights, we proceeded at once to the room; but nothing could we find
to account for the noise. Time, 8 p.m.
September 5th.-In the evening I was writing at my desk in sitting-room,
and heard noise like shovels and fireirons being thrown upon kitchen stove.
My wife was dozing upon the sofa in the room with me, and I was surprised
that the noise did not rouse her. I ran downstairs at once and made an
examination, but there was nothing whatever to indicate the cause of the
disturbance. Time, 9.10 p.m.
September 6th.-Arrival of M. W" msid-servant, who was given bed-
room on first floor landing.
September 21st.-I, writing at my desk, heard noise overhead (apparently
in front bedroom) like a person tapping upon the floor with a hammer, using
about enough force to drive tacks in. Eight or teu knocks. and then silence.
I at once got a light and went up. Could find no explanation. Wife out.
Girl in kitchen in basement. Time, 8.5 p.m.
Septomber 22nd.-Girl casually mentioned to my wife that twice in tho
early morning (6.45 and 7.15 a.m.) she had gone to front door in answer to
bell, but had not found anyone there.
October 1Oth.-My wife and I were taking tea in sitting-room. Time,
5.38. Front door bell rang. I at once went to window to find out who
visitor was, but could see no one. While I stood at window, thinking visitor
must be standing in rece88 of doorway, servant opened door. No one was
Digitized by Google
1889.] from Anothe)' Point of View. 311
there. I therefore went out and looked up and down the street. Two lamp-
lighters 011 the other side were the only persons about, and they assured me
that they had not observed anybody come up our steps.
October 13th.-Servant mentioned to my wife that she thought queer
noises occurred. in the house. Said often when in bed she heard footsteps
coming up and down stairs by her door. She supposed it must be from next
door, but it sounded very close. [The next house on the same side as our
staircase was empty at this time.]
October 16th.-On this night a visitor slept in front bedroom. He stated
next morning that about 1.30 he had heard a peculiar crisp noise in his room,
something like a silk dress rustling.
October 18th.-At 0.30 p.m. a loud double knock was given at front door.
Noone was found there. I was in London, and my wife told me of the
incident upon my return in the evening.
October 27th ancl28th.-Colonel and Mrs. H. occupied front beclroom
on these nights. On the second night Colonel H. heard mild groans and
loud breathing. It is probable that these sounds came from the adjoining
bedroom in the next house.
November lOth.-I was aroused during the night by hearing a tramping
noise, apparently in the back bedroom overhead. The noise ceased in a minute
or less. I intended to go up and explore, but being only very slightly awake,
r unfortunately fell asleep again without carrying my intention into effect.
December 9th.-On this Sunday evening occurred the most really unac-
countable noise of any yet noticed. I was in the house alone, writing at my
desk. Time, 8.30. Suddenly I heard a noise which seemed to come from
the hall, outside my room door. I can only compare the sound to that which
would be made if half a brick were tied to a piece of string and jerked about
over the linoleum-as one might jerk a reel to make a kitten playful. The
bumping noise seemed to commence close to the door of the room ill which I
was sitting; it appeared to proceed along the passage to the top of the kitchen
stairs-traversing a distance of some 15ft. in about half a dozen jumps-and
then it seemed to tum the staircase comer and to jump down three or four
stairs, one at a time. I went out, carrying my reading lamp with me, but
nothing could I find, either in the passage or down the kitchen stairs. So,
much puzzled, I returned and resumed my writing. In about five minutes
the bumps began again, seeming to me to come from the part of the kitchen
stairs where they had previously left off. This time I ran out too quickly to
take the lamp with me. Just as I reached the head of the stairs the knocks
stopped again. All was now clark, but fearing to lose time by returning for
the lamp I went clownstairs backwards, feeling along each stair with my handa
as I proceeded. Reaching the bottom, I stepped into the kitchen and turned
up the gas there, but Ilowhere was anything to be seen that could have caused
the curious sounds. More perplexed still, I returned once more to my
writing, but had scarcely shut the sitting-room door and settled nlyaelf at the
desk when three sharp thumps sounded on the floor just outside the door.
I sprang across the room and threw the door open. Nothing was to be seen.
Again I searched in all directions-without getting the slightest hint of an
explanation. The thing was inexplicable, and it has remained so to me ever
since. At flny rate, there are the facts. I can suggest no explanation. The
x 2
312 Phan~ of t/te DeacZ [Nov. 29,
idea that the noises really occurred in the next (empty) house does not com-
mend itself to me for the simple reason that they seemed to be so distinctly
in the places referred to. I was the only person in the house. We had no
cat at that time; and we never at any time found any indications of mice in
the place.
December 15th.-A most remarkable and inexplicable noise occurred at
11.35 p.m. on this date.
Our bedroom adjoined the sitting-room, and was separated from it by
curtains. Across one corner of the sitting-room (one of the corners adjoining
the bedroom) a piano was placed, and over this instrument, upon the wall,
hung a guitar. The guitar, as most people are probably aware, has six strings-
three silver and three gut. On this night I had retired before my wife, and
had been in bed about five minutes; she remained in the sitting-room in
order to say her prayers by the fire, as it was a very cold night. In the midst
of the quietness which ensued I suddenly heard the guitar play-p1mg, pang,
pi"g~lIl1g, pang, ping-here my wife called out in a loud, awe-struck
whisper, "Did you hear that 1" whilst even as she spoke a third pung, pang,
ping sounded clearly through the rooms. 1 immediately sprang out of bed
and rushed in to her, finding her kneeling upon the hearth-rug by an arm-
chair, staring with astonishment at the guitar upon the wall. No more
sounds were heard, though we sat waiting by the fire for over half an hour.
My wife told me that she had been distracted once or twice during her
prayers by a noise like someone sweeping their hand over the w&II paper by
the fireplace and in the recess across which the piano stood. She had looked
round to see where the kitten was (an extremely lazy Persian), and found
that it was curled up asleep behind her. She said that when the guitar
BOunded its chords (in arpeggio) for the second and third time she was looking
straight at the instrument, and such critical observation as she had at com-
mand under the surprise of the thing satisfied her that there was nothing
visible near it, and that it made no perceptible movement. Well, that is all.
The three gut strings of that guitar unmistakably sounded three times in
succession (making nine notes altogether) when no person was touching it,
and no thing was touching it as far as we could discover. The first explana-
tion that suggests itself is that the pegs slipped round slightly and so caused
the strings to vibrate and emit sounds-as often happens with stringed instru-
ments, I am told. But the answer to that suggestion is, lat, the sounds were
not of that sort-they were more clear and musical than the result of slipping
pegs would be; 2nd, it is extremely improbable that three pegs would each
slip just enough to produce the corresponding chord in a lower key; 3rd, if
this improbable thing happened once it could scarcely happen three times ill
Buccession, and without the changes of pitch being noticed; 4th, all lIix
Itring3 of the gtfitctr were perfectly in tUlle next dcty! So slipping down is out
of the question. How to account for the fact I do not know. I can only
record it as it occurred, and leave it to others to estimate the probability of
such a feat being accomplished by mice (in a. house where mice were un-
known), or by a moth (in December), or by something similar which escaped
our observation.
1889.
January 13th.-When I came in, about 10.30, my wife informed me that
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] jl"Om .Another Point oj View. 313
when Bitting alone during the evening Bhe had heard the guitar make one
note. She could not reach the guitar to Bee whether one of the six Btrings
would give that note, and BO Bhe found the corresponding note on the piano
in order to remember it. I at once tried the experiment. The instrument
was not now in tune, but I found that the middle gut Btring gave a note
corresponding to the one indicated upon the piano.
January 24th.-To-day our maid-servant (from whom we believed the
history and reputation of the house' had been carefully kept) complained
that Bhe had heard outside her bedroom door, in the morning about 5.30 or 6,
a loud crash like a quantity of bottles being hurled upon the lloor. We
aBIlured her it was a dream; but she maintained that Bhe was Wide awake
when it happened, and had been awake for BOme time.
February 16th. - Lieut.-Oolonel S., Sir L. G., and Oaptain N.
occupied the two bedrooms. III the morning the two former reported
hesring Bimultaneously a noise, apparently on the linoleum between the open
doors of the two rooms, like paper rustling or mortar falling. I believe they
immediately rushed from their rooms and met on the landing. Time about
2 a.m.
February 15th.-My wife'B Bister, MuJB E. B., slept in top back
bedroom on this and five or Bix following nights. After the first night she
reported hesring three loud raps on her room door, Buch as might be done
with a walking-stick. She could not 88y quite what time in the night this
took place, but.she is positive she had not been asleep. It might have been
about 1 a.m. She did not hear anything on the following nights.
June 29th.-Mrs. V. reported that when alone in the Bitting-room,
"between seven and eight this evening, she heard a note from the guitar.
Subsequently Mrs. V. Btated that the note heard was BOmewhere about
" A above middle 0." If the note was as high. as this and came from the
guitar it must have been produced by one of the gut Btrings. Mrs. V. had
DO idea that the guitar had 9ver done this BOrt of thing. My wife and I were
out at the time, and the Bervant was downstairs.
From time to time I paBBed several nights alone in each of the three bed-
rooms (the visitors' rooms and the Bervant'B) beBides our own, to see if I
could meet with experiences of any BOrt, but nothing ever happened on these
oCC8llions that I am aware of.
(Signed) X. Y.
The present tenant of the house (who took p0BB8BBion on September 28th,
1889) wrote to us on March 13th, 1890:-
'I am BOrry to 88y we are thoroughly diBBppointed in the ghOBt; we have
• neither seen nor heard anything which even a believer in ghosts could lay
• to their charge.'
Digitized by Google
