{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ronald_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Ronald M NDE 4597","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ronald M NDE 4597  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ronald M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2320 Ronald M NDE 4597  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was taken to hospital by my grandmother, and my mother. Mother never learned to drive. She was the person responsible for me learning of my Type 1 diabetes, because she was a licensed practical nurse at the hospital, and noticed my excessive thirst, rapid loss of weight (30-lbs) 150lbs from 180lbs within thirty days; and my unruly attitude and responses.

The last thing I remember before I passed out in a coma was sitting in the emergency room. The first thing I remember after my experience was seeing my grandmother staring down at me in the hospital bed as if she had just seen a ghost. My experience, as best as I can determine, could have taken anywhere from five to thirty minutes. That is the total time I was unconscious. The actual event I can recall perfectly because it has never left my emotional life and has led to lifestyle changes. From darkness (coma or death), I experienced a grand soothing luminous energy. If there is any definition of a 'love-light shining' this would have made the perfect video. I began to rise, or a feeling of being lifted through the light. The light seemed to surround me as a secure feeling, so bright, but so inviting. Ahead I could see a Being, not an angel with wings, but identifiable as a human. Also, as I noticed the Being, my perception of approaching seemed to resemble the travel through a tunnel. However, upon my arrival to the power of the presence, the Being said, 'It is not your time.'  I felt as if I did not want to return, or leave this feeling of bliss.

I do not remember traveling back from the light, but as I awoke, my grandmother said, 'You looked as if you were dead.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 1966
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  Type One Diabetes  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' Diabetic Coma  I was taken to the hospital because my blood sugar level was very high, (at the time, the appropriate method of detection was drops of urine on chemical powders that changed to various colors depending on the amount of sugar in your system) my sample turned black. 400+.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was as if I had extreme knowledge throughout the experience. From the time I noticed the light until I awoke.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No color other than the luminous white, and only an outline of the Being that revealed itself.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     The energy coming from, I guess, the light seemed to surround me and take me through and to the Being. It was not until I looked upon the Image that I felt as if I could be in a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just the one Being of obscure human likeness. By obscure I mean primarily a definite outline with visible characteristics, such as arms and legs, but no facial features.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light surrounding.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       That this was the most peaceful place that there was no reason to be anywhere else.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The primary result of this experience to me was the knowing of an existence outside the realm of known life. I also returned with an unreal emotion of peace and increased awareness of the world searching for this peace.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Baptist, before, since a Moderate believing a Power exists within and beyond the Universe, wherever the boundaries may or may not be.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   No particular faith or pastor following

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Baptist, before, since a Moderate believing a Power exists within and beyond the Universe, wherever the boundaries may or may not be.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The sense of knowledge, looking back at my experience, I now believe was the energy within the light or surroundings, but I definitely sensed an increase in knowing.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I have been a salesman all my life, I enjoy talking to people, but I rarely tell anyone about my personal life. I do, however, notice how people react to various situations that occur and sort of examine the possible outcomes of choices they might have taken. My experience, I do not talk about because I have never been around a group of people or individuals that have brought up this type of occurrence. The primary reason I reveal this now is the 'Coast to Coast AM' topic on NDEs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The experience itself was accepted by me, but I did not express the facts to others.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The only part that I have tried to evaluate is the Being telling me it was not my time. Is there a certain time for death, who decides, and how is it determined? And any and all questions related to this my one and only NDE to date.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only my ex-wife, while we were still married, twenty-six years after my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Too real to be anything else.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Forty-four years after this event, I feel as strongly as I did when it happened, that it was an actual event.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   However, I have been on Insulin Injections the forty-four years since my experience and during some occurrences of low-blood sugar I get a feeling of utopia that resembles the Experience, but falls extremely short of the original event.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life goes on and Something follows.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If an NDE is as close as we can get to revealing what happens when death occurs, then until we gain enough knowledge to bring someone back from an extended death, we will continue to have questions with unknown answers.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ronald_m_nde.html