{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ronnie_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Ronnie D NDE 7188","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ronnie D NDE 7188  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ronnie D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3645 Ronnie D NDE 7188  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sledding down an alleyway that intersected with an avenue at the bottom. I could not stop before entering the avenue. I went out into the street and struck the front bumper of the white Cadillac with my head.

That very moment, I left myself and was out on the sidewalk. I was not standing on the ground; I was hovering. There was a girl, my age, standing on the ground next to me holding her head and screaming. I could hear her and I looked at her.  She was very afraid of what she was seeing, so I turned and looked in the direction she was looking. It was ‘Me’ and I was in the process of about to be run over by the car. At that time, the knowledge came to me that if I wanted any chance to live that I needed to slow the car down so when the tire went over me, the body had to be on its back. I knew, somehow, that if the car ran me over on my stomach, it would not survive. 

I slowed the car down and was directing it when to go over the body. I did get it to run over the body facing up and now I had to have the same thing happen with the back tire. The car, being so low to the ground, was making the body that was my body, to roll over and over. Once it got near the rear tire I slowed down the car, again, so it ran over me facing upwards. It did, it ran me over facing upwards. Now the body was stuck behind the rear tire and a big clump of snow that was stuck to the car. I watched the car drag my body down the road until it intersected the next road. When the car hit the dip in the road, the body fell out. 

I remember being glad that it was over but the girl was still screaming. She screamed all the way through this experience. Because she was screaming, a man came out of his house at the back door, looked towards us and looked in the direction the girl that is ‘we’) were looking. He saw my body and he ran over to it. The body was crawling, using only the left arm. I think it was trying to go home. Not sure. While the man was running over to my body, I tried to tell the girl that I was okay. But she couldn’t hear me nor see me. I tried to grab her but my hands went through her. 

That was the point where I was beginning to understand what was happening.  I looked towards my body.  The man arrived and grabbed it and turned it over cradling its head. He looked back towards his wife and said ‘call an ambulance the kid is dying.’ The girl was crying very hard holding her head. At that time and moment, I was told to go back or come forward. I went over to my body; I did not walk I just floated. 

I was hovering over my body when again I was told, ‘It’s getting late, make up your mind what you’re going to do’. As I was looking, down I said, ‘I am not going in there’. The body was bleeding out of its mouth, ears, and nose. I could see the pain it was in so I said, ‘I am not going back in there.’ That is when I left the site. 

It sounded like some kind of machine turned on and I was in this very dark tunnel with a very tiny spot of light way, way far in front of me. I could feel myself going forward towards the light. As I got closer to the light I noticed the light was brighter than any other light I had seen in my life, but it did not hurt my eyes. The FEELING I had, as I was getting closer, was a feeling of love: Kind of being in your mother’s arms, but much, much more. 

As I approached the light, I felt no fear nor was I worried about anything. I felt everything was okay. As I walked out of the tunnel, everything got very cloudy, but I could make out figures of people walking towards me. I did not see their faces; they just walked by me on my left and right. I walked further away from the tunnel and got scared again. Afraid that I would not find my way back. I kept hearing water dripping like being in a tunnel with an echo. I walked some more and came upon a pair of steps. The steps were solid gold. I remember thinking that if I could take some of these steps back to my mother, everything would be fine. My mom was a widow for a long time and we suffered hardships along the way. 

On the side of the steps was a plaque and it read ‘flight ###’, I can't remember the number but it was a three digit number. That is when I heard or noticed someone coming down the stairs. I ran a short distance away from the steps and knelt down in the fog, so I would not be seen. As this person began to come down the steps, I could see his feet and ankles, then his legs. I felt now that I knew this person but wasn't sure who it was. As he came down the steps, I could see his chest and his chest had a white corsage on it. I should have known, at that point, who he was but I didn't. 

My dad had a white corsage on his chest lying in his casket before we buried him. When his face came into view, I saw that it was my daddy! I was six years old when he died. I got up and started to run towards the stairs yelling ‘Dad, Dad, oh Daddy I am sorry for what I have done.’ He smiled at me, I could see his gold tooth, and he stopped coming down the steps. He then said to me, ‘It doesn't matter, as long as you are truly sorry for what you have done.’ I replied, ‘Yes, Dad, I am really sorry.’ Then he said, ‘well then, that's all you need. How about you come to live with me for a while?’ I answered, ‘yes, I would like that.’ He stretched out his hand for me to come and I did. He took me by the hand and turned around and we started walking up the steps. 

We took a few steps and we stopped. He sighed and asked me ‘what's wrong?’ His head was down looking towards the ground, he never looked at me again, I answered, ‘I can't go with you, Mommy and Richie, (my little brother) will cry.’ At that very moment, I heard something like a record player going backwards. 

I felt pain, a lot of pain and I could not breathe. I opened my eyes and saw a man holding me. It was the man who came out of his house when the girl was screaming. I tried to talk to him but I could not talk. It hurt very badly to breathe. I finally got out the words, I am not proud of what I said but I said, ‘I can't breathe you son of a bitch.’ He said okay just hang on; an ambulance is on its way. There were at this time, a lot of people around. They must have come there when I was gone. Some said they knew the man and me sent them to tell my mother. Our apartment was a block away. 

As the ambulance was arriving, so did my mother. She fell in the snow running towards me and I laughed to myself and commented.  As we were traveling in the ambulance to leave, I remember going in and out of my body, watching my mother, the nurse and myself. Every time we would hit a bump or make a turn, the pain was so bad, that it threatened my life. I found out later that my body was crushed. Most of my ribs were broken and stuck into my lungs. My body cavity was filling up with blood. The doctors at the hospital told my mother there was nothing they could do. ‘He is filling up his cavity with blood and if we cut him open he will bleed out.’  I remember things going on, off, and on. 

My whole family was there at the hospital. Six doctors were around me talking. My mother sent for a priest for my last rights. She did not know nor did any doctor know what I knew: I was going to be okay. When Father T arrived, I tried to talk to him, but couldn't. I could only move my left arm and my head side to side.  I kept reaching out to him over and over again. Father T looked into my eyes and I shook my head ‘no’. We did not talk but we did. He looked again in my eyes with a smile as if saying, ‘You’ve been there and you’re going to be okay’. I shook my head, ‘Yes’. He then told my mother, ‘He is going to be fine’, and that I did not need last rights. She insisted that he did. As he began the last rights, we kept smiling at each other, like in conversation that ‘We know but they don't’.  

The hospital kept a 24-hour vigil over me, taking vitals at times. The doctors told my mother ‘if we can stabilize him we will operate’. I knew that there would be no operation. In the early morning hours, I fell asleep. The nurse panicked and started giving me oxygen and calling for help. Little did she know that blowing up my lungs with oxygen was piercing my lungs from the broken ribs. I could not fight her off or the others that had answered her call for help. I could only move my left arm. 

Again, I left my body and watched as they tried to help. Finally, a male nurse said ‘take the oxygen off’ and they did. I was fine.  In the morning, the doctors began coming in, one by one. They were discussing my condition and could not explain what happened to me with each other. But I knew. Finally, the doctors went out and told my family, ‘We cannot explain it, but we cannot find any blood in his cavity. He is stable and we will continue watching me.’ Later during my hospital stay, they sent in psychiatrist to talk to me about my experience. I did not tell them anything.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November, 1966

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was run over by a vehicle both front and back tires.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I am not sure of the question, but if you are asking if I heard and saw things that my body didn't?  I can't tell you, I can only tell you what I experienced outside my body. If my body was able to see or hear or feel, I don't know.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I always was conscious and alert through the whole experience. No it wasn't, only I had a better understanding about things.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I had the power to slow down things during the experience on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was the same but my awareness was not.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was the same, except the moment I returned into my body. Reality set in.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a dark tunnel with a white light at the end. As I traveled towards the light it got bigger and bigger and the feeling of PURE LOVE was felt more and more.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father, I clearly saw and talked with, and I saw others but not their faces.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brighter than any light I have ever seen, but it did not hurt my eyes.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I am not sure where I was; I think I was at the door to another place.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, love, peaceful

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I suddenly understood things I didn't know, I was able to converse without talking or hearing to a ‘felt presence.’

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     When I left my body. There is a limit as to what you can do, depending on where or which side you on.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My decision was not of earthly consciousness but of awareness.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Serbian Orthodox

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more in tune with attitudes values and beliefs.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I always believed in life after death for some reason. Its like I was born with this knowledge.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     True belief in yourself to keep on living.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   Something or somebody was talking with me through the whole experience. I was able to do things that I can't do now.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I felt the presence of someone else.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes I was with my earthly father.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably existsÂ

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt the presence of someone and that that someone loved me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know in death your body only dies, not you.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The importance of being sorry for wrong doings to myself and to others.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably existsÂ

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes my earthly father is alive, there were others also. But alive as in a different way.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Yes for some reason I know but do not know how I know, that when you die, you can not die in your body for some reason. You have to leave your body or be trapped in it.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     We don't know love here on earth. Even I who experienced TRUE/PURE love have truly forgotten the feeling of pure love. I can only remember it was fulfilling and true beyond anything I know.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life. I know what I know to be the truth and pure.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I did not tell anyone about what I went through until years later.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   I can remember my experience like it was a moment ago. Very little things I can't remember or should I say don't understand.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I understand how and why someone that dies, how they have the option to come back or not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was able to see life as it is being lived and life after life. People who are alive could not hear, see or feel me.  I could see and hear them. I could not feel them but I could see and hear them. I was able to see hear and feel my father’s hand.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    5 Years

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I lived both sides, I have been there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have been there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   There have been a few instances I experienced that took me to where I was.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ronnie_d_nde.html