{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rory_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Rory R NDE 93","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rory R NDE 93  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rory R NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1483 Rory R NDE 93  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I and a good friend of mine were drinking at a bar on New Year's Eve. This person was a lifelong friend of mine. Later that night, when we were both walking home, he decided to tell me he was in love with me. Not like the bud light commercial 'I love you,' but 'I'm in love with you.' I told my friend that that kind of thing didn't interest me, turned my back on him and walked to walk away. He said, 'Rory,' so I turned around to see what he wanted and he sucker punched me. Now I'm only five feet five inches tall and one hundred and twenty-five pounds and he's six-feet-plus tall, one hundred, and eighty-plus pounds and I was knocked to the ground. I jumped up but not in time to avoid another blow. This blow knocked me down a hill. I looked up to see a house light that was on so I ran to the house to ask the person to call the cops (at the time I didn't believe in God, but now I can say thank God there was someone home). The lady answered the door and phoned the police. I was messed up and quite bloody by this attack so she slammed the door on me and about the same time my ex-friend grabbed my hair and pulled my down the steps (there where about four of them). So I slammed down on the sidewalk and was confused.

My ex-friend straddled me and started hitting me saying he loved me, and I was like (sorry if this offends), 'fuck you but I'm not interested faggot.' So he started choking me. The next thing I know I'm lying on my back, but there was no sensation of pain (which was a relief). Everything had a glowing beige light, not the pure white light, but a beige one. There were three beings around me. Two were female and one was male. This is just the impression I had. It was more like two feminine entities and one masculine one. Anyway, these entities were waving me away as if I wasn't wanted. The next thing I know I'm gasping for air looking at a crying guy. All the feelings of panic and pain I had were replaced with a feeling of calm. The next thing I know the police arrived and saved me. And that's my story.

As I said I was an ardent atheist, but now I know there is a God and I have no doubts about it. It changed my life forever, almost as if I wasn't ready, or I have something unfinished to do before I leave this world.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/31/97

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack     nearly murdered by ex best friend. by lack of oxygen  I was nearly strangled to death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was on my back, but there was no feeling of support underneath me -- nothing was whole. Me the entities, nothing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Granted I was intoxicated, but the pain and panic left only to be replaced by a since of calm.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to pass slower with the beings. But it seemed to make the time pass faster until the cops arrived. It seems like I endured less than I actually did.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing. The entities only shook their heads at me. Almost to say, 'No not know.'

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Three beings. They said nothing but the feeling was to return to my body. Almost like they felt my pain. Like what was happening to me was tragic and unplanned.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a beige light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Where I visited was not Earth. That's all I can say.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm. I felted loved but like I was not wanted. Like I couldn't or shouldn't stay.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Only that I wasn't meant to die yet.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Without a doubt I was told to return to my body. All three entities seemed to be shaking their heads. As if I was not wanted there. Or as if it wasn't my time. I don't know but I had the sensation that I was to leave. And really I didn't want to.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I know there is a God. I learned that there is something beyond death. It has given me the focus I've lacked.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling and sense of wellbeing I had while surrounded by those 'beings'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The good things are my new belief in a higher existence and my renewed focus. The bad things are now I'm more discontent than ever with my life on Earth and my lost friendship with a lifelong friend.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    No one believes me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was strange, but you knew that, huh.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rory_r_nde.html