{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ros_nde.html","mytitle":"Ros NDE 680","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ros NDE 680  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Ros NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						212  Ros NDE  680  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was in the early part of 1988 and I was living at the time in Bethlehem (occupied territories) in Isr'l. I shared a flat with my ex fiancé. It was bitterly cold this particular night and snow was beginning to fall down upon the ground. We had very little heating, only a small gas heater, so to try and keep the flat warmer, we covered all the window and door openings with wind blockers to keep any drafts out. Having done all this, we went to bed unaware of any potential problems.


I must have been asleep for a while, when I became consciously aware that I was walking up a white staircase. The staircase had an appearance of being something between white marble and sandstone. I was about half way up the staircase when a thought came to me, that should I proceed further up the staircase, I would not be able to return. I stood for a moment and reflected on this thought, with a decision to make, I realized that if I didn't return, my son would be motherless and the unborn baby girl in my womb would not have a life either. (At this point, I would have been two days pregnant, and was not aware of this fact until the thoughts sent to me in this experience, informed me of this fact).


Realizing that I was responsible not only for my own life, but for the lives of my children, I started to walk back down the stairs. At this point, I heard an audible voice say to me, 'Ros get up and go to the bathroom,' I replied, 'No, I don't need to go to the bathroom.' The voice then repeated the request, to which I responded in the same manner as before. The third time the voice demanded that I get up and go to the bathroom, so I obeyed and got out of my bed in the pitch-blackness.


I started to move towards where I thought the door was, but become extremely disorientated, and began feeling nauseas and giddy. I fumbled around for the light switched, but became overwhelmed by a lightheaded feeling. At this point, my ex fiancé woke up and ran straight to the bedroom door, opened it, then he began screaming and ran to the front door and outside into the cold.  I was convulsing on the ground, thinking to myself, 'God please don't let me be sick and vomit while I die.' Now I know that might sound strange, but you will be amazed by the thoughts that run through your head, while you're in your death throes.


The cold air came through the front door and began to open my lungs up, with proper air, which stopped my convulsions. I began to laugh as by this time, my hysterical ex fiancé was still screaming so loud, that neighbors around us came out of their flats to see what the commotion was all about. Seeing me still lying on the ground, laughing and trying to get air at the same time, my next door neighbor came in to check on me, but got no further than the bedroom door, when she too, dropped to the ground and was overcome, by whatever had me in its grip.


By this time, other neighbors rushed in and some of them found themselves in the same position as me, so it appeared to me to be some kind of mad comedy, with people dropping literally like flies to the ground. When I had recovered enough I managed to get to my feet and get outside into the fresh air and revived considerably better at this point. Now to give you a little idea, about customs in Bethlehem. Most folk there are either Catholic or Muslim. Either way the folks there thought a demon was attacking us, hence the reason my catholic ex fiancé ran screaming out of the flat.


I tried to reason that there was a scientific reason for what happened, but no one apart from me was going to accept that explanation. Anyway, I concluded the strange events occurred due to carbon monoxide poisoning from the gas heater, which in retrospect was my silly fault for allowing this to happen. Now as to who it was who demanded I get out of my bed, maybe it was my guardian angel? Whoever it was seemed to know me well and how to get me to respond. The voice was audible and very clear, yet I was the only one who heard it. Also I found out that I was pregnant and yes, nine months later, I had a girl. I was never tested for the baby's sex, during my pregnancy and I never doubted what I was told on the staircase, so in every respect in my mind, this experience was no dream, because I would not be here today if it had been.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1988

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I never looked at my body, as I assumed it was there, due to the fact that I was walking up the stairs.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Heightened.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Yes, at the point of the decision time. I became aware, that somehow I was standing in the middle of a transitional place that was neither on earth nor in Heaven.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I did not meet any beings. However, clear thoughts were transmitted to my mind as if I were listening to someone with my ears.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was a light coming from the top of the staircase.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The staircase was very beautiful and white. As to its building type, I am unsure of, as it appeared to be as smooth as white marble, yet the texture was sandstone.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I was told about the pregnancy and the sex of my unborn child.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Yes I became aware of my unborn child. The sex of the child and even the name I was to call the child.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was completely neutral at the time. Until the voice informed me that my decision would affect my son and my unborn child. Then I made a firm decision to return down the staircase.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became more aware of the spiritual side of my life at this point, in particular death and dying.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I'm uncertain about this matter as I have always had a strong sense about events and people. I can usually tell you, who is ringing up on the phone before I answer it and who is on the way to visit me, without having prior contact. My son who was also involved in this incident has very strong psychic gifts and often has premonition dreams with extremely accurate details, often down to the smallest iota.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The convulsion, believe me, its not a nice feeling, when your body is screaming for air and you want to throw up all at the same time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mixed, some believed, some didn't want to know, others were unsure as I did not have the traditional experience, tunnel etc.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ros_nde.html