{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ron_c_nde_407.html","mytitle":"Ron C NDE 407","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ron C NDE 407  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ron C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1298 Ron C NDE 407  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>  					A rushing sound as I lost consciousness followed by blackness/silence and the realization that I was not where I had been a moment ago. A feeling of incredible loneliness until I felt that I was no longer alone. It's then that I realized that I was probably dead. I saw a glimpse of a being of light who I was embarrassed to look at. I knew I had to return and expressed a, 'Do I gotta?'

I then felt my consciousness returning to my body through my head, the heaviness of the body, breathing and pressure. I found myself in a hospital bed. I realized then that I had been somewhere else, and remembered where.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 10, 1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident     lost vital signs three times at the scene

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  No appearance, no form.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A brief image of a being in a robe of white with shadows in silver and gold. I imagined it as a being of higher form. Did not know who. No communication.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As a tiny dot of light at a great distance in total blackness turning into a spark of light expanding rapidly replacing the blackness with pure light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme loneliness, a presence, embarrassment, security and peace, unhappy.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was in a place where I had absolutely no questions, total security and peace.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     All that I 'learned' was that there is life after death, and that everything will be all right in the future, for everybody. This life is insignificant in the greater scheme of things.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I see all people on earth coming together with understanding.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I became aware that I was to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Knowing there are the unexplained causes of things and warnings.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Now I know that there is no greater power than our creator.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is life after death and a greater purpose to this temporary existence.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes and no. Explanation requires answering many, many questions from people. Time is a factor as is their particular understanding and acceptance of the answers to the questions.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Once I suspected that I would be hit by lightning on this particular day.  I went out to my log cabin on the property close to my house because I did not want the lightning to hit the house. A ball of lightning came through the door and hit me as I sat waiting.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best, returning to tell everybody where I had been. The worst, wishing I would not have had to come back to see my son die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Varied as one would expect. Most think of me as gifted and actually listen to and follow my advice.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Numerous times I am reminded. Once very briefly I saw my future, that everything would be fine.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's a marvelous experience that I do not recommend.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Any suggestions that I might have would depend solely on your interpretation/understanding and response to my experience from your questions and my answers. I have more answers than you have questions. </p>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ron_c_nde_407.html