{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 5770 1027","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_11_july_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 July 11 1890","mylang":"de"}
Gemml Meetings.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL :MEETINO ON
May 9th, 1890.
429
The thirty-ninth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Westminster Town Hall, on May 9th, 1890.
THE PRESIDENT, PROFESSOR SIDGWICK, IN THE CHAIR.
Papers on "Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance'" were
read by Mr: F. W. H. Myers, Professor O. Lodge, and Mr. Walter
Leaf. These are printed below.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
J1tJ.y 11th, 1890.
The fortieth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Westminster Town Hall, on July 11th, 1890.
THE PRESIDBNT, PROFESSOR SIDGWICK, IN THE CHAIR.
The President gave a second address on the Census of Hallucina-
tions, which is printed below.
Mr. Myers read the first part of a "Provisional report on alleged
movements of objects, without contact, occurring not in the presence of
a paid medium," which it is proposed to publish in a future number of
the Proceeding'.
I.
ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT.
SECOND ADDRESS ON THE CENSUS OF
HALLUCINATIONS.
It is now just about a year since I gave my last ad interim report
on our Census of Hallucinations at a General Meeting of the Society.
The progress made during this interval has not quite realised my
expectations; in particular, I am a little disappointed by the limited
amount of interest shown in the work by Members and Associates of
the Society. We have now in our Society about 700 Members and
Associates, (not counting the American onp.&,) and as I pointed out
. before, if all of them would collect 25 answers and induce one friend to
do the same-a task which ought not, generally speaking, to be very
difficult,-we should thus get 35,000 answers, and this number, though
not so large as I should like, would probably enable us to calculate
from the census itself, with sufficient approximation to accuracy, the
2 n
Digitized by Google
430 The Oensus of Hulltwinatiol1R. [July 11,
proportion of coincidental to non-coincidental phantasms. Tht!J impor-
tance of this result, as relieving us from the necessity of forming a.
conjectural estimate of the size of the circle from which our" veridical"
cases are drawn, was explained in my last addre.'IS. At present, how-
ever, only about 74 :Members or Associates have, so far as we know,
given any help, and if it had not been for the great efforts made by
some of these-which I most gratefully acknowledge-and for help
received from outsiders, we should not have attained to our present
modest number of answers-6,481.
Of the 6,481 people whose answers we have, 72;, or about 11 per
cent., answer in the affirmative, and 751 experiences are described.•
These may be divided into 474 cases where the sense of sight wns
affected, 219 cases where voices were heard without any accompanying
visual impression, and 56 cases where the impression was only on the
sense of touch, besides 2 where the touch was accompanied by 1\
non-vocal auditory impression. In about 48 out of the whole number,
more than one sense was affected, besides 26 more in which, along with
a visual or tactual impression, some non-vocal sounds occurred, which
do not come within the scope of the present inquiry. It is often
difficult in the case of sounds, and especially of non-vocal sounds, such
as rustling, footsteps, &c., to ascertain whether they were hallucinatory
or not.
Out of the 751 cases, 98,01' about 13 per cent., may be called coinci-
dental; that is, they are cases in which the hallucination has coincided
in time with some condition of another person, who may be regarded
as the agent, in such a way as to suggest a causal connection between
that condition and the hallucination.
Some of these experiences that I have called coincidental must be
admitted t.() fall under Mr. Gurney's head, "ambiguous." On the other
hand, among cases clo.ssed as non-coincidental, there are a certain
number which there is some reason to regard as other than purely
subjective. Thus there are 6 cases of the figure and 1 of the voice of
dead persons phantl\smally seen or heard when the percipient was
unaware of the death. There are 9 cases (7 of an unrecognised figure,
1 of a recognised living person, and 1 of a recognised dead person)
where apparently the same figure is independently seen by more than
one person on different occasions. In one of these 1\ figure in a brown
dress with broad lace collar and golden hair wo.s seen hy three persons
.on different occasions in a certain house, two of these experiences
10f the persona who have had eXllerienOO8. 121 have given no particulars. On
tbe other band, 217 peNon8 have bad more than one experience. A 1arge proportion
of these, however, were recurrent experiences of a trivia] kind, such as bearing the
Ilame called, or feeling touches. 'Ve have counted recurrent experiences not described
singly as one.
Digitized by Google
1890.] The CenSlt8 of Hallu,cincttions. 431
being certainly independent- that is, the second percipient knew
nothing about the experience of the first. The figure was afterwards
thought to be recognised as that of a living lady dressed similarly j
but as only a part of the ghost's face was seen, the recognition can
hardly be counted on.
Finally, there are 66 collective cases-cases, that is, in which more
than one person shares the experience-besides 12 collective cases
which have been already counted as coincidental. These are the
numbers if we count the persons answering our question who have
seen" collective phantasms." But, as sometimes more than one of the
joint percipients is included among these, the whole number of
phantasms collectively seen and heard is rather smaller, viz.: 10
coincidental ones and 55 non-coincidental ones-65 in all, of which
47 were visual as regards at least one of the percipients. The
number would be still further reduced by excluding from it those cases
where there seems to be a possibility that the figure seen or the "oice
heard was not hallucinatory at all but real. Precisely how large
this reduction should be we can only guess, but I will give one of
our reasons for thinking that some reduction is necessary. We find
that out of the visual collective cases, more than half occurred out of
doors, while of the visual cases occurring to a single percipient, only
about one seventh occurred out of doors. Now, though some supposed
apparitions seen out of doors are quite as obviously true hallucina-
.tions as SOme of those seen indoors, still, speaking generally, there
seem to be several reasons why real human beings are more likely
to be mistaken for apparitions out of doors than indoors. In the first
place, if a figure appears in a room its distance is seldom great enough
to make recognition doubtful, so that cases of mistaken identity are
less likely to occur indoors. Further, if the figure be unrecognised,
this can seldom be regarded as evidence of its hallucinatory character
out of doors, while it often would afford evidence indoors, since it is
ndt'"usual for strangers to walk into our rooms without anyone in the
house knowing anything about it. And, again, the mode of appearance
and disappearance of the figure is much more often clearly impossible
for a real person indoors than it is out of doors. The figure lOay, for
instance, go through a locked door, or through the wall, or into a room
into which it is at once followed, and where it is not found. Out of
doors it is often difficult to prove that the vanished figure has not
simply turned into a house, or been hidden by an intervening bush or
other obstacle, especially since its distance is often much greatel· than
that of a hallucinatory figure seen in the house.
After making all allowances, however, there remains a certain
number of collective cases in which the objects seen can hardly have
been real people or things.
2 n 2
Digitized by Google
4132 The Oe1UJU8 of Hallucinati01l8. [July 11,
Now granting that collective hallucinations really occur-and,
apart from this census, we have by this time accumulated a good deal
of evidence of the fact-they are obviously of great theoretical impor-
tance in considering the nature and origin of hallucinations. I there-
fore propose to make a few reouu'ks on them this evening. The most
obvious explanation of the "collectiveness" of a hallucination is that it
has for both percipients some common origin indE>pendent of either of
them. This common origin might be telepathic, some other mind
affecting them both similarly and simultaneously, or it might be what
I may call "physical suggestion," by which I mean some real external
cause,-say a sound like a footstep-starting by " suggestion" a similar
hallucination in both of them. Now though it seems not improbable
that the hallucination is sometimes produced telepathically in both
percipients at once by some other mind, living or dead, this can hardly
be the explanation always. For instance, it is unlikely that a psychical
cause external to both percipients made two girls at a dancing class
simultaneously see a chair in the middle of the 1Ioor where no chair
was, or produced for two other percipients an appearance of a grey
object about the size of a man's head, which rose and fell again Ilear
them ns they sat at luncheon. It is equally arbitrary to explain by
external psychical agency cases where the phantasm collectively seen
represents a living person who was in no unusual condition at the time.
For instance, two young ladies and their brother going along the passage
one day saw their father going upstairs. One of them also heard his
footsteps while the other two were struck by the absence of sound.
Though none of them saw him very distinctly, they all independently
felt convinced at the moment that it was their father; but their father
was at the time sitting quietly reading in the dining.room and it
could not have been any other real human being.
As regards the second possible hypothesis, that what I have called
physical suggestion is the common origin of the hallucination in the
two percipients, it may reasonably be nsked whether we have any
evidence that a hallucination is ever thus produced. We know, of
course, that verbo.l suggestion will often make hypnotised people see
hallucinations, but it is a great step from this to assuming that halluci-
nations can be produced in this way in the case of people in 0. normal
state, and it is a still further step to assume as possible the non-verbal
and therefore less definite suggestion, which is all that we can suppose
to occur in the present cases. Hallucinations, however, are so rare in
the experience of most of us that it may fairly be argued that when
we see them we are not quite in a normal state, and I think there is
reason to believe that self-suggestion sometimes operates during a.
hallucination, for it is sometimes difficult otherwise to account for the
occasional agreement of two senses. For instance, a lady in the dark
Digitized by Google
1890.] The Oem-us of HaUucinations. 433
first feels her husband's presence, then putting out her ha.nd, feels his
coo.t-sleeve, and then hears him speak. The husband, meanwhile, is
absent and vh-idly imagining himself to be bringing her bad news. A
reflected hallucination such as I mentioned in my last address is
again an instance of the operation of self-suggestion during a halluci-
nation, though only one sense is affected.
But in these cases it is hallucination that leads to further halluci-
nation. It is a different question whether real sounds ever lead to
visual and other hallucinations by suggestion. It appears to me prob-
able from the evidence that in some cases they do and that muscular
5ensations suggesting touches do so also, but it is difficult to prove this
because it is difficult to prove that the sounds and touches are not
themselves hallucinatory: I will, however, give one instance from the
Census collection of a case pri1lld facie collective where the probability
that a real sound wrongly interpreted led to different visual experiences
appears to me very strong. Two sisters within hearing of the front
door, and within sight of different parts of the passage leading from it
to the living rooms, but not within sight of each other, heard their
father's latchckey in the door and heard him come in. One of them
(who is now dead) then saw her father, and the other saw his dog pass
the door of the room where she was. It was their father's habit to
take a walk with his dog and return about this hour, but on the par-
ticular afternoon in question he and the dog were dozing in the dining-
room. The same explanation might be applied in any other Ca5e prima
facie collective, in which there was a common perception of sounds
possibly real, but diverse visual hallucinations. But it does not seem
applicable to cases where the things seen are decidedly more alike than
one can easily suppose they would be from the slight amount of sug-
gestion received.
This difficulty also occurs in connection with a third explanation of
collective hallucinations, viz., that A sees a hallucination first and then
conveys it by word or gesture to B. In certain cases this is plausible.
Recognised figures might be suggested by a brief exclamation, and in
som.e cases it is clear that one percipient was aware that the other saw
something before he saw it himself. But it is difficult to see how an
unfamiliar figure could be so suggested, and the detailed resemblances
in our collective cases are sometimes of too marked a character for us
easily to suppose that they were the result of comparing notes after-
'wards and pseudo-memory. Moreover, our informants have sometimes
taken pains, according to their recollection, to avoid any conscious
suggestion to one another.
There remains a fourth hypothesis, viz., that the hallucination of
one percipient is ca.used by mental suggestion or thought-transference
"from the other. This hypothesis avoids the difficulty as to the
Digitized by Google
4340 The Censu,,'l of Hallw:illativlIR. [July 11.
similarity of the two hallucinations, since it seems quite as likely that
the general idea as to fOl1n, colour, &c., of a hallucination seen by A
should be conveyed telepathically to B, as that the general idea of the
fonu and colour of what the agent was looking at in Mr. Guthrie's
experiments should be conveyed to the percipients. Another difficulty
attaching to the hypothesis of suggestion is avoided or reduced by
supposing thought-transference to operate. It would be a remarkable
coincidence that, at the moment when A is having an unusual
experience, B should be in the unusual state in which he can be made
to see the same thing by ordinary suggestion. But if our view about
veridical apparitions is correct it would seem that a "telepathic
impact" is itself sometimes a cause of hallucination in the person to
whom the ide!l- is transferred. For instance, to take an experimental
case-when Baron von Schrenk-Notzing tried, as an experiment, to
make a. lady think of him, she saw his face before her, without any
intention on his part of producing a hallucination. It must be ad-
mitted that we have at present no crucial instance showing that the act
of experiencing a hallucination is a. condition specially likely to cause
a telepathic communication with another mind. There are, however.
one or two cases in which such a transfer seems to have occurred. I
may remind you of one in Pllantasms of tlte Li"-ing (V01. II., p. 198).
quoted from the note-book of Philip Lord Chesterfield. Waking one
morning he saw a thing standing like a white sheet, with a knot at
the top, and his wife, who was 40 miles away, saw on the same
morning and at the same hour "a. thing all in white with a black
face" standing by her bed.
I may appropriately conclude my address with an account of an
experiment made only yesterday by Mrs. Sidgwick, which points
strongly in the same direction. With the assistance of Mr. G. A.
Smith, Mrs. Sidgwick has been tl'ying experiments in thought-
transference with hypnotised persons. Two of t.hese were yesterday
hypnotised in different rooms. We will call them Mr. P. and Miss B.
You are no doubt aware that good hypnotic subjects clLn be made to
have post-hypnotic hallucinations-e.g., if told while hypnotised that
they will see some specified object when they awake, they do see it
though there is nothing of the sort there. Mr. Smith told Mr. P. on this
occasion that Mrs. Sidgwick would show him a picture, and then went
out of the room and told Miss B. that she would see a picture which 1\1r.
P. would show her when her eyes were open. "'hile he was away Mrs.
Sidgwick told Mr. P. that she was going to show him a picture of a goat-
chaise with two goats. Then Mr. Smith came back, awoke Mr. P., and
left again immediately. After which Mrs. Sidgwick gave Mr. P. a blank
card as a picture and he almost immediately saw on it the picture of
the goatchaise and t.wo goats and was much pleased with it. Mrs.
1890.] The Cehslhs of Hallucination8. 435
Sidgwick asked him to take it upstairs and show it to Miss B., but to
be careful not to tell her what it was--to let her see for herself. This
he immediately did. Miss B. at first only snw something black on the
card, then by degrees she saw, first some wheels, then "a nice little wee
carriage," and presently some animals in front, which she identified as
two goats. As this was-so far as Mrs. Sidgwick can judge--without
any information from Mr. P. through the ordinary channels of senso
as to the nature of what he saw, it seems to be a case of collectivo
hallucination and one which was conveyed to Miss B. by thought-
transference from Mr. P. Had Mr. Smith known what Mr. P. saw on
the card, we might suppose that he caused Miss B. to see the picture
by thought-transference, but no one but M.... P. and Mrs. Sidgwick
knew what he saw, and she has no reason to think t.hat she can convey
ideas telepathically to Miss B. She fails when she tries, while Mr. P.
has on other occasions succeeded.
Digitized by Goo~
436 .A Record of Ob8e1'Vutiom of
II.
A RECORD OF OBSERVATIONS OF CERTAIN
PHENOMENA OF TRANCE.
(1) INTRODUCTION.
By FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
It is proposed in this and in a following Part of the Proceeditlfl' to
give SOlDe account of a series of obsen-ations directed to certain trance-
phenomena. which occur in the case of a lady named Mrs. Piper. Many
of these observations have been carried on in America by Professor
William James, Mr. Hodgson, and others; but for a period of two
months and a.-half the phenomena were witnessed by an English
gr;>up of observers. There is much variety in the phenomena, and
much difficulty in their interpretation; and we shall endeavour to give
the independent opinion of each observer, and so to select and analyse
the records cited as to give the reader full material for forming a
judgment of his own. Professor Lodge, Mr. Leaf, and myself, who are
editing the records, have no theory which we wish to impose upon the
reader. On certain external or preliminary points, as will be seen, not
we three alone, but all who have had adequate opportunity of judgment,
are decisively agreed. But on the more delicate and interesting question
as to the origin of the trance-utterances we cannot unite in any absolute
view. We agree only in maintaining that the utterances show that
knowledge has been acquired by some intelligence in some supernormal
fashion ;-and in urging on experimental psychologists the duty of
watching for similar cases, and of analysing the results in some such
way as we have endeavoured to do.
The study of trance-utterances, indeed, is at first sight distasteful;
since real and pretended trance-utterances have notoriously been the
vehicle of much conscious and unconscious fraud. aut we urge that,
just as the physical and psychical phenomena of hysteria-long
neglected as 0. mere jungle of trickeries-are now analysed with
adequate security against deception, and with most fruitful results, so
also these utterances are now capable of being rationally studied,-
thanks to the advance in the comprehension of automatic phenomena.
which French and English effort during the last few years has achieved.
These utterances, although they often occur ill hysterical subjects,
seem to have no necessary connection with hysteria. Nor again have
we "any real ground for calling them morbid per ,e, although their
excessive repetition may lead to morbid states. All that we can safely
Digitized by Google
Oe11ain Phenorrum,(t of TTance. 43'1
say is that they are a form of automatism; that they constitute one of
many classes of phenomena which occur in sane subjects without
entering the normal waking consciousness or forming part of tho
habitual chain of memory.
In previous discussions in these pages we have dhided automatism
into active and passive types 1 ; active automatism consisting of such
phenomena as automatic writing and tranc:&-utterance-passive, of
hallucinations of sight, hearing, «c. "The automatism may be called
active if it finds a motor channel, pa88ive if it finds a sensory channel,
but the impulse whence it originates may be much the same in the one
case as in the other."
In the paper from which I quote I remarked on the unsubstantial
character of trance-utterances in general. "Trance-addresses are
eminently barren of fact; they generally show little more than a
mere power of improvisation, which may either be fraudulently
practised, or may be a characteristic faculty of the unconscious self."
When, therefore, we were informed by trusted witnesses,-by Pr0-
fessor William James, who is a physician as well as a psychologist, and
by Mr. Hodgson, whose acumen in the detection of imposture has been
proved in more fields than one,-that the utterances of Mrs. Piper's
trance did in their view unquestionably contain facts of which Mrs.
Piper in her waking state was wholly ignorant, some inquiry into the
character of this trance seemed to fall in the direct line of our work.
Although Mrs. Piper is not actually a "malade"-as the French are
wont to term their subjects of experiment,-her case, from the inquirer's
point of yiew, resembles that of the well-known" Madame B.," or any
other semi-pathological case which needs prolonged study outside the
walls of a hospital. We have not, however, asked the Council to devote
any part of the Society's funds to this inquiry. The Society as such is
in no way committed to the investigation, nor responsible for any view
at which the small group of observers may have arrived.
Howeyor the specific trance-utterances may be interpreted, the case
as a whole is a rare and remarkable one. It is an instance of automa-
tism of that extreme kind where the upheaval of sub-conscious strata
is not merely local, but affects, so to say, the whole psychical area;
-where a secondary consciousness not only crops up here and there
through the primary, but for a time displaces it ;-where, in short, the
whole personality appears to suffer intermittent change.
As a general rule, where changes of personality thus complete and
persistent havc been carefully noted they have seemed to depend either
on hypnotisation, or upon some cerebral injury. Cases like Mrs.
Piper's are indeed recorded in Spiritualistic literature; but my own
visits to some half-dozen "professional trance-mediums" had left me
1 Vol. V" p.534, .te.
Digitized by Google
438 .A ReconZ of Obsel'Vaticrns of
with little hope that any evidence of value for our purposes would be
forthcoming from such sources. There was, therefore, much of novelty
in this case; and at the same time there was thus much of favourable
prognostic,-that experiment with Madame B. and others had already
shown that a secondary personality is a state propitious for the
emergence of telepathic or clairvoyant phenomena.
Mrs. Piper's case has been more or less continuously observed by
Professor James and others almost from the date of the first sudden
inception of the trance, some five years ago. Mr. Hodgson has been
in the habit of bringing acquaintances of his own to Mrs. Piper, with-
out giving their names; and many of these have heard from the trance-
utterance facts about their dead relations, «c., which they feel sure that
Mrs. Piper could not have known. Mr. Hodgson also had Mr. and Mrs.
Piper watched or "shadowed" by private detectives for some weeks.
with the view of discovering whether Mr. Piper (who is employed
in a large store in Boston, U.S.A.) went about inquiring into the
affairs of possible "sitters," or whether Mrs. Piper received letters from
friends or agents conveying information. This inquiry was pushed
pretty closely, but absolutely nothing was discovered which could throw
suspicion on Mrs. Piper,-who is now aware of the procedure, but has
the good sense to recognise the legitimacy-I may say the scientific
necessity-of this kind of probation.
It was thus shown that Mrs. Piper made no discoverable attempt
to acquire knowledge even about persons whose coming she had reason
to expect. Still less could she have been aware of the private concerns
of persons brought anonymously to her house at Mr. Hodgson's choice.
And a yet further obstacle to such clandestine knowledge was intro·
duced by her removal to England-at our request-in November, 1889.
Professor Lodge met her on the Liverpool landing-stage, November
19th, and conducted her to 0. hotel, where I joined her on November
20th, and escorted her and her children to Cambridge. She stayed first
in my house; and I am convinced that she brought with her 0. very
slender knowledge of English affairs or English people. The servant
who attended on her and on her two young children was chosen by
myself, and was a young woman from a country village whom I had
full reason to believe to be both trustworthy and also quite ignorant
of my own or my friends' affairs. For the most part I had myself not
determined upon the persons whom I would invite to sit with her. I
chose these sitters in great measure by chance; sevel-a.l of them were
not resident in Cambridge; and (except in one or two cases where
anonymity would have been hard to preserve) I brought them to her
under false names,-sometimes introducing them only when the trance
had already begun.
In one sitting, for instance, which will be cited below, I learnt by
Digitized by Google
Certain Pllenomena of T~·a11('e. 439
accident that a certain lady, here styled Mrs. A., was in Cambridge j-
a private lady, not a member of the Society for Psychical Research,
who had never before visited my house, and whose name had certainly
never been mentioned before Mrs. Piper. I introduced this lady as
:Mrs. Smith j-and I think that when the reader is estimating the
correct facts which were told to her, he may at any rate dismiss from
his mind the notion that }l1-s. Piper had been able either to divine that
these facts would be wanted,-or to get at them even if she had known
that her success depended on their production on that day.
Mrs. Piper while in England was twice in Cambridge, twice ill
London, and twice in Liverpool, at dates arranged by ourselves j her
sitters (almost always introduced under false names) belonged to
several quite different social groups, and were frequently unacquainted
with each other. Her correspondence was addressed to my care, and I
believe that almost every letter which she received WIIS shown to one
or other of us. When in London she stayed in lodgings which we
selected j when at Liverpool, in Professor Lodge's house j and when at
Cambridge, in Professor Sidgwick's or my own. No one of her hosts,
or of her hosts' wives, detected any suspicious act or word. •
We took great pains to avoid giving information in talk j and a
more complete security is to be found in the fact that we were oUl'selves
ignorant of many of the facts given as to our friends' relations, &c. In
the case of Mrs. Verrall, for instance, (cited below,) no one in Cambridge
except Mrs. Verrall herself could have supplied the bulk of the infor-
mation given.; and some of the facts given (as will be seen) Mrs. Verrall
herself did not know. As regards my own affairs, I have not thought
it worth while to cite in exten8Q such statements as might possibly
hl!ove been got up beforehand j since Mrs. Piper of course knew that I
should be one of her sitters. Such facts as that I once had an aunt,
"Cordelia Marshall, more commonly called Corrie," might have been
learnt,-though I do not think that they were learnt,-from printed or
other sources. But I do not think that any larger proportion of such
accessible facts was given to me than to an average sitter, previously
unknown j nor were there any of those subtler points which could so
easily have been made by dint of scrutiny of my books or papers. On
the other hand, in my case, as in the case of several other sitters, there
were messages purporting to come from a friend who has been dead
many years, and mentioning circumstances which I believe that it
would have been quite impossible for :Mrs. Piper to have discovered.
I am also acquainted with some of the facts given to other sitters,
and suppressed as too intimate, or as involving secrets not the property
of the sitter alone. I may say that so far as my own personal con-
viction goes, the utterance of olle or two of these facts is even more
conclusive of supel'llonnal knowledge than the correct statement of
440 A Record of Observations of
dozens of names of relations, &c., which the sitter had no personal
motive for concealing.
On the whole, I believe that all observers, both in America and
in England, who have seen enough of Mrs. Piper in both stateS to be
able to form a judgment, will agree in affirming (1) that many of the
facts given could not have been learnt even by a skilled detective;
(2) that to learn others of them, although possible, would have needed
an expenditure of money as well as of time which it seems impossible
to suppose that Mrs. Piper could have met; and (3) that her conduct;
has never given any ground whatever for supposing her capable of
fraud or trickery. Few persons have been so long and so carefully
observed; and she has left on all observers the impression of thorough
uprightness, candour, and honesty.
Less than this it would not be fair to sn.y. But, on the other hand,
it must be remembered that the personal honesty of Mrs. Piper, in the
waking state, covers only a part of our difficulties. We are dealing with
an honest subject, and with a genuine trance; but it by no means
follows that the trance-personality is as honest as the waking one.
Analogy would be against such an assumption. It may be remembered
that in Mr. and Mrs. Newnham's case of thought-transference, mani-
fested by planchette-writing,l the unconscious self of Mrs. Newnham,
which in some way learnt the questions which Mr. Newnham was
writing down, exhibited at times a trickiness and a pretension to know-
ledge that it did not possess, which were quite foreign to Mrs.
Newnham's conscious mind. With other automatic messages,-whether
'Conveyed by table-tilting, planchette-writing, or onlinary Ilutomatic
acript,-the case is much the same. Even though the messages may
usually seem straightforward enough, times will come when the responses
degenerate,-when silly jokes, or manifest untruths, or violent expressiou-
are written, perhaps, over and over again. This seems to go with
fatigue in the automatist, and to show some want of co-ordination.
1\1rs. Piper's trance-condition is markedly subject to these forms of
degeneration. As will be more fully described later on, she passes with
slight convulsions into a condition in which a personality calling itself
"Dr. Phinuit" comes to the front. And" Phinuit "-to use his own
appellation for brevity's sake-is by no means above" fishing." His
ways of extracting information from the sitter, under the guise of giving
it, will be described in detail by Mr. Leaf. Different trances, and
different parts of the same trance, varied greatly in quality. There were
some interviews throughout which Phinuit hardly asked any question,
and hardly stated anything which was not true. There were others
throughout which his utterances showed not one glimmer of real know-
ledge, but consisted wholly of fishing questions and random assertions.
I Phantalflll oj the Lil'inu, Vul. I., p. 63.
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenonunut of T1'a1U'e. 441
These trances cannot always be induced at pleasure. A state of
quiet expectancy or "self-suggestion" will usually bring one on; but
sometimes the attempt altogether fails. We never attempted to induce
the trance by hypnotism. I understand, indeed, that Mrs. Piper has
never been deeply hypnotised, although Professor Richet tried on her
some experiments of suggestion in the waking state, and found her
somewhat" suggestible." On the other hand, the trance has occasionally
appeared when it was not desired. The first time that it occurred,
(as Mrs. Piper informs us,) it came as an unwelcome surprise. And
Mrs. Piper believes-our evidence lies in her own inference from her own
sensations--that the access has several times come upon her" during
sleep, exhausting her for the succeeding day. An instance of this kind
occurred at Cambridge. Before going to bed she had, at my request,
and for the first time in her life, been looking into a crystal, with the
desire to see therein some hallucinatory figure which might throw light
on the nature of the mysterious secondary personality. She saw nothing;
but next morning she looked exhausted, and said tha.t she thought that
she had had an access during the night. The next time that she went
into a trance Phinuit said he had come and called, and no one had
answered him. It appeared as though the concentration of thought
upon the crystal had acted as a kind of self-suggestion, and had induced
the secondary state, when not desired.
The trance when induced generally lasted about an hour. On one
occasion in my house, and I believe once at least in Ameiica, it only
lasted for about a minute. Phinuit only had time to say that he could
not remain, and then the habitual moaning began, and Mrs. Piper
came to herself.
There was often a marked difference between tho first few minutes
of a trance and the remaining time. On such occasions almost all that
was of value would be told in the first few minutes; and the remaining
talk would consist of vague generalities or mere repetitions of what had
already been given. Phinuit, as will be seen, always professed himself
to be a spirit communicating with spirits; and he used to say that he
remembered their messages for a few minutes after "entering into the
medium," and then became confused. He was not, however, apparently
able to depart when his budget of facts was empty. There seemed to
be some irresponsible letting-off of energy which must continue until
the original impulse was lost in incoherence.
We shall endeavour to set forth our series of observations fully
and fairly, giving as far as possible the actual view of each observer,
and withholding no judgment of an unfavourable kind. We had
at first hoped to have printed all our evidence in this Part of
the Proceedings; but Mr. Hodgson's collection of American testimony,
with account of medical examination, has been unavoidably delayed,
Digitized by Google
4402 A RecO'1'cl of Obse·rvatUm8 of
and must be postponed to the next Part. Professor Lodge and
Mr. Leaf have given a full account of the English sittings, and
a paper by Professor William James, of Harvard University, con-
cludes the batch of evidence which we can at present offer. It is
possible that Mrs. Piper may visit England again, and we shall be glacl
of any criticisms which may assist in the difficult task of giving stability
and precision to these fleeting and often incoherent phenomena. But
even as our evidence stands, the reader will thus have much material
from which to form bis own opinion as to the origin of the know-
ledge,-some of it plainly acquired, I think, in some supernormal
way,-which these trance-utterances show. But I would warn him
against coming to any definite conclusion on the strength of this case
alone. Phinuit's utterances must be judged, I think, as but one item
in the long roll of Rutomatic messages of many kinds which are only
now beginning to be collected and analysed. I regard it as proved
that these phenomena afford evidence of large extensions-telepathic
or clairvoyant-of. the normal powers of tbe human spirit. It is
possible that Phinuit's knowledge is thus derived from a telepathic 01·
clairvoyant faculty, latent in Mrs. Piper, and manifesting itself in
ways with whic.h previous experiment has not made us familiar. On tbe
other hand, the wide class of "automatic messages" includes phenomena.
of very various types, some of which certainly point primd facie to the'
intervention,-perhaps the very indirect intervention,-of the surviving
personalities of the dead. If such instances of communication from
extra-terrene minds should ultimately find acceptance with Scienct>t
then Phinuit's messages, with all their drawbacks, and all their incon.
sistency, will have fair claim to be added to the number.
Digitized by Google
1
Oertain Phenomena of Trance. 443
(2) PART I.
By PROFESSOR OLIVER LoDGE, F.R.S.
Account of ,itting, witT, Mr,. Piper.
FORMAL REPORT.
At the request of Mr. Myers I undertook a share in the investiga.-
tion of a case of apparent clairvoyance.
It is the case of a lady who appears to go oft'into a trance when she
pleases to will it under favourable sun-oundings, and in that trance to
talk volubly, with a manner and voice quite different from her ordinary
ma.nner and voice, 011 details concerning which she has had no
infonnation given her.
In this abnonnal state her speech has reference mainly to people's
relatives and friends, living or deceased, about whom she is able to hold
a conversation, and with whom she appears more or less familial'.
By introducing anonymous strangers, and by catechising her myself
in \"arious ways, I have satisfied myself that much of the information
she possesses in the trance state is not acquired by ordinary common-
place methods, but that she has some unusual means of acquiring
infonnation. The facts on which she discourses are usually within the
knowledge of some person present, though they are often entirely out
of his conscious thought at the time. Occasionally facts have been
narrated which have only been verified afterwards, and which are in
good faith asserted never to ha\'e been known; meaning thereby that
they have left no trace on the conscious memory of any person present
or in the neighbourhood, and that it is highly improbable that they
were e\"er known to such persons.
She is also in the trance state able to diagnose diseases and to
specify the owners or late owners of portable property, under circum-
stances which preclude the application of ordinary methods.
In the midst of this lucidity a number of mistaken and confused
statements are frequently made, having little or no apparent meaning
or application.
Concerning the particular means by which she acquires the different
kinds of infonnation, there is no sufficient evidence to make it safe to
draw any conclusion. I can only say with certainty that it is by
none of the ordinary methods known to Physical Science.
OLIVER J. LoDGE.
May, 1890.
The above careful statement doe'!! not convey any vivid idea of the
actual occurrences, nor does it impa.rt such infonnation as is needed by
persons not already familiar with the subject before they read the
Digitized by Google
A RecOl'd of Obse1'Vatwns of
detailed report; hellee it may be permissible to amplify it by a more
descriptive and less cautiously worded account of my experience,
accompanied by a preliminary examination of such elucidatory hypo-
theses as suggest themselves; premising that for evidence the report of
the sittings must be appealed to, not this narrative account.
Regarding the manner of the sitting, it may be convenient to print
here, as sufficiently representative of what happens, and as embodying
what it is necessary somewhere to say concerning Mrs. Piper's initial
acquaintance with me, a statement I wrote shortly after my first
sitting.
Prdimiltflr!llJtatement 11."ritten December 1st, 1889.
Mrs. Piper arrived in England on November 19th in the Cunard steamer
&ythia from Boston, and as Mr. Myers was called away to Edinburgh on
that day, I met the steamer at his request and conveyed the lady to the
hotel apartments he had taken for her.
I was a complete stranger, but was introduced sufficiently by a note Mr.
Myers had left with the hotel Commissionaire, who also met the steamer and
saw the luggage through the Custom House. In the course of the drive to
the hotel with }Irs. Piper and her two little girls, I mentioned that I had a.
good many children; in fact, seven. I also told her that I was a Professor at
a college in the city. At the hotel I left her, and though I called next day
just to see that she was all right, I told her no more about myself, nor was
she in the least inquisitive. She was naturally tired after the journey, and
absorbed with the children. That evening Mr. Myers arrived, and next day
escorted her to his house in Cambridge.
I remained at work in Liverpool till November 29th, when I travelled to
London to attend the Royal Society dinner the following day. And on the
morning of this day, the 30th, I met Mr. Myers at King's Cr088, and
travelled to Cambridge with him by the 9.5 a.m. train, reaching his house
about 11. ()Irs. Piper was soon ready and we commenced a sitting. I sat
facing Mrs':'1'ipcr in a partially darkened room, amI Mr. Myers was within
earshot on the other side of curtains, taking note of what was said. Mrs.
Piper sat still, leaning forward in her chair, and holding my hands. For
some time she could not go off, but at last she said, "Oh, I am going," the
clock happened to strike one (for a half hour), and she twitched convulsively,
ejaculated "don't.," and went into apparent epilepsy. [I had seen epilepsy
several times before and recognised many of the ordinary and obvious
symptoms; not, of course, pretending to speak medically.] Gradually she
became quiet, and still holding my right hand, cleared her throat in a male
voice, and with distinctly altered and hardened features, eyes closed and un-
used the whole time. Having been told what to expect and how to humour
this impersonation, I said, "Well, Doctor," upon which he [for it sounded like
a man, and I quite forgot that it was a woman who was speaking for the rest
of the sitting: the whole manner and conversation was masculine] introduced
himself as "Dr. Phinuit," and we made the usual commonplace remarks.
I found it difficult to know what to say, but I said I had heard of him from
Myers, and he said, .. Ha ! Myers, is he here 1 He wasn't here last time I
came," upon whic Mr. Myers replied, "Yell, I am here, Doctor." He Raid
Digitized by Google
Oe,1,ain Phenomena of Tmnce. 445
a few more words to Mr. Myers, and then asked me if there was anything 1
wanted to ask him, at the same time putting his hand on my head and
feeling all over it, saying he wanted to become acquainted with me, that 1 was
" a nice fellow," "worked too hard," "had a full head," and such like
things, as he probably would say to anyone engaged in similar pursuits. 'I
asked him if he could tell me anything about my relatiollB, upon which he
began a rambling and excited conversation consisting of short sentences and
curiou'i snatches and jerks, with occasional wanderings into momentary
(apP.l"'ent) irrelevance, but every now and again coming to a point
energetically and hammering it into me with insistence both verbal and
manual) Of this conversation Mr. Myers took as complete notes as was
possible, and 1 have not been able to supplement his notes very materially,
except perhaps here and there with a touch which had escaped him.
The occasional irrelevance faintly coming in every now and then amid
the more COllBtant coherent and vigorous communication, reminded ma
of listening ata telephone, where, wheneveryour main correspondent is silent,
you hear the dim and meaningless fragments of a city's gOBBip, till back again
comes the voice obviously addressed to you and speaking with firmness and
decision.
The record follows later (p. 465). The details given of my family are just
such as one might imagine obtained by a perfect stranger surrounded by
the whole of one's relations in a group and able to converse freely but hastily
with one after the other; not knowing them and being mther confused with
their number and half-understood messages and personalities, and having a
special eye to their physical weaknesses I;IDd defects. A person in a hurry thus
trying to tell a stranger as much about his friends as he could in this way
gather would seem to me to be likely to make much the same kind of com-
munication as was actually made to me.
In order to gain further experience, my wife invited Mrs. Piper to
our house between the dates December 18th and December 27th, 1889;
and again between the dates January 30th and February 5th, 1890,
when she sailed for New York.
During these days we had 22 sittings, and I devoted my whole time
to the business, being desirous of making the investigation as complete
and satisfactory as possible while the opportunity lasted.
Mrs. Piper pretends to no knowledge as to her own powers, and
I believe her assertion that she is absolutely ignorant of all that she
has said in the trance state. She appears to be anxious to get the
phenomenon elucidated, and hopes by sitting to scientific investigators
to have light thrown on her abnormal condition, about which she
expresses herself as not quite comfortable. She perfectly appreciates
the reasonableness of withholding information from her; assents with
0. smile to a sudden stop in the middle of a sentence, and in general
is quite uninquisitive. All this innocency may, of course, be taken
as perfection of acting, but it deprives hel' of the great advantage
(assuming fraudulent intention for the moment) of controlling the
circumstances after the manner of a conjurer; and prevents her from
2 I
Digitized by Google
446 A Rec01'cl of Ob8e)'I:atio'n8 of
being the master of her own time and movements. The control of the
experiments was thus entirely in my own hands, and this is an essential
ingredient for satisfactory testimony.
The initial question to be satisfactorily answered before anything
can be held worth either investigating or recording COnCel'llS the
honesty of ~Irs. Piper herself.
That there is more than can be explained by any amount of either
conscious or unconscious fraud, that the phenomenon is a genuine
one however it is to be explained, I now regard as absolutely certain ;
and I make the following two statements with the utmost confidence :-
(i.) Mrs. Piper's attitude is not one of deception.
(ii.) No conceivable deception on the part of Mrs. Piper can explain
the facts.
r I will not take up time by doing more than enumerating some of the
>
~ethods of imposture which suggest themselves to an inquirer as
preliminary possibilities to be guarded against. Such as :-
Inquiry by paid agents.
Inquiry by correspondence.
Catechism of servants or children.
Research in Family Bibles.
Study of photograph albums.
Use of directories and biographies.
Prowling about the house at night with skeleton keys.
Bribing servants to name the sitter.}
The question of good faith is so vital that before taking leave of
this part of the subject I will make the following statements :-
1. Mrs. Piper's correspondence was small, something like three letters
a. week, even when the children were away from her. The outsides of
her letters nearly always passed through my hands, and often the
insides, too, by her permission.
2. The servants were all, as it happened, new, having been obtained
by my wife through ordinary local inquiries and registry offices, just
about the time of Mrs. Piper's visit. Consequently they were entirely
ignorant of family connections, and could have told nothing, however
largely they had been paid.
The ingenious suggestion has been made that they were her spies.
Knowing the facts, I will content myself with asserting that they.had
absolutely no connection with her of any sort. "
3. The photograph albums and Family Bibles were hidden by me
the morning of the day after she arrived at my house. I had intended
to do it sooner. This is manifestly a weak point. Like many such
things, it sounds worse than it is. The more important books were in
my study, and into it she did not go till just before the first sitting.
Digitized by Google
Ce·rtain Phenomena of Tm'llce. 447
One or two photographs she did look at, and these are noted. The
safest thing is to assume that she may have looked at everything about
the house.
4. In order to be able to give better evidence, I obtained permission
and immediately thereafter personally overhauled the whole of her
luggage. Directories, biographies, Men of the Time, and such-like
books were entirely absent. In fact there were scarcely any books
4't all. .
5. The eldest child at home was aged nine, and the amount of
information at his disposal was fairly well known to us. My wife was
sceptically inclined, and was guarded in her utterances; and though a
few slips could hardly be avoided-a.nd one or two of these were rather
unlucky ones-they were noted and are recorded.
6. Strange sitters frequently arrived at 11 a.m., and I admitted
them myself straight into the room where we were going to sit; they
were shortly afterwards introduced to Mrs. Piper under some assumed
name.
7. Occasionally, when the sitter came in an evening and took a
meal first, the correct name was apt to leak out. Even then it seems to
me that a portentous and impossible memory would be needed to select
from the entire mass of facts which had been previously (by impossible
hypothesis) hunted up and memorialised for the circle of my and many
other people's acquaintance, and to affix the correct parcel to the
appropriate individual.
S. The whole attitude of Mrs. Pipel' was natural, uninquisitive,
ladylike, and straightforward. If anything was noticeable it was a
trace of languor and self-absorption, very natural under the trying
condition of two long trances a day.
Her whole demeanour struck everyone who became intimate with
her as utterly beyond and above suspicion.
9. The trance is, to the best of my belief, a genuine one. In it
Mrs. Piper is (sometimes, at. least,) insensible to pain, as tested by
suddenly pushing a needle into her hand, which causes not the slightest
flinching; and her pulse is affected beyond what I can imagine to
be the control of volition. Of the genuineness of the trance I have
not the remotest doubt, and only say no m.ore about it because it is
a question for medical witnesses (p. 441).
(bbeating being supposed out of the questioll, and something which
may briefly be described, at least by a non-psychologist, as a duplex
or trallce personality being conceded, the next hypothesis is that her
trance pel'sonality makes use of information acquired by her in her
waking state, and retails what),t finds in her sub-consciousness without
any ordinary effort of memory.)
2 I 2
Digitized by Google
448 A &emu of Observati<n/,8 of
It is an interesting question whether any facts instilled into the
waking Mrs. Piper can be recognised in the subsequent trance speech
My impression at one time was that the trance information is practically
independent of what specific facts Mrs. Piper may happen to know.
The evidence now seems to me about evenly balanced on either side.
\Vhether the trance speech could give, say, scientific facts, or a foreign
language, or anything in its nature entirely beyond her ken, I am
unable to say. Definite experiments may have, and I hope have, been
directed to each of these questions, but not yet by me. I want to
attack these questions next time I have a chance.( So far as my present
experience has gone, I do not feel sure how far Mrs. Piper's knowledge
or ignorance of specific facts has an appreciable influence on the com-
munication of her trance personality. But certainly the great mass
of facts retailed by this personality are wholly outside of ?tIrs. Piper's
knowledge; in detail, though not in kind.
The personality active and speaking in the trance i.. apparently s()
distinct from the personality of Mrs. Piper that it is permissible and
convenient to call it by another name. It does not differ from her as.
Hyde did from Jekyll, by being a personification of the vicious portion
of the same individual. There is no special contrast, any more than
there is any special similarity. It strikes one as a different personality
altogether, and the name by which it introduces itself when asked, viz.,
" Dr. Phinuit," is as convenient as any other, and can be used wholly
irrespective of hypothesis. \
I would not in using tlii's name be understood as thereby committing
myself to any hypothesis regarding the nature o~this. apparently distinct
and individual mind. At the same time \the name is useful as
expressing compactly what is naturally prominent to the feeling of any
sitter, that he is not talking to Mrs. Piper at all. The manner, mode
of thought, tone, trains of idea, are all different. You are speaking
no longer to a lady but to a man, an old man, a medical man. All this
cannot but be vividly felt even by one who considered the· impersona-
tion a consummate piece of acting.)
Whether such a man as Dr. Phinuit ever existed I do not know,
nor from the evidential point of view do I greatly care. It will be
interesting to have the fact ascertained if possible; but I cannot see
that it will much affect the question of genuineness. For that he did
not ever exist is a thing practically impossible to prove. While, if he
did exist, it can be easily supposed that Mrs. Piper took care enough
that her impersonation should have so much rational basis (p. 520).
It can be objected, why if he was a French doctor has he so entirely
forgotten his French 1 For though he speaks in a Frenchified manner, I
am told that he cannot sustain a conversation in that language. I am
unable to meet this objection, by anything beyond the obvious suggcs-
Digitized by Google
Certain, PhertO'YY/..e'fW, of Trance. 440
tion that Mrs. Piper's brain is the medium utilised, and that she is like-
wise ignorant. But one would think that it would be a sufficiently
patent objection to deter an impersonator from assuming a r6le of purely
unnecessary difficulty, and one which it was impossible satisfactorily to
maintain.
(Admitting, however, that" Dr. Phinuit" is probably a mere name
for Mrs. Piper's secondary consciousness, one cannot help being struck
by the singular correctness of his medical diagnoses. In fact the
medical statements, coinciding as they do with truth just as well as
those of a regular physician, but given without any ordinary examina-
tion and sometimes without even seeing the patient, must be held as
part of the evidence establishing a strong primd facie case for the
existence of some abnormal means of acquiring information.) Not that
it is to be supposed that he is more infallible than another. I have
one definite case of distinct error in a diagnosis (p. 547).
Proceeding now on the assumption that I may speak henceforth of Dr.
Phinuit as of a genuine individual intelligence, whether it be a usually
Jatent portion of Mrs. Piper's intelligence, or whether it be something
distinct from her mind and the education to which it has been
subjected, I go on to consider the hypotheses which still remain un-
examined.
And first~we have the hypothesis of fishery on the part of Dr.
Phinuit, as distinguished from trickery on the part of Mrs. Piper~ I
mean a system of ingenious fishing (the utilisation of trivial
indications, of every intimation, audible, tactile, muscular, and of
little shades of ~anner too indefinable to name; all these excited in
the sitter by skilful guesses and well-directed shots, and their nutri-
ment extracted with superhuman cunning.
Now this hypothesis is not one to be lightly regarded, or ever wholly
set aside. I regard it as, to a certain extent, a vera causa. At times
Dr. Phinuit does fish. Occasionally he guesses; and somet.imes he ekes
out the scantiness of his information from the resources of a lively
imagination.
Whenever his supply of information is ahundant there is no sign
of the fishing process.
At other times it is as if he were in a difficult position,-only able
to gain information from very indistinct or inaudible sources, and yet
wishful to convey as much information as possible. The attitude is
then as of one straining after every clue, and making use of the
slightest indication, whether received in normal or abnormal ways: not
indeed obviously distinguishing between information received from
the sitter and information received from other sources.
The fishing process is most marked when Mrs. Piper herself
either is not feeling well or is tired. Dr. Phinuit seems to experience
450 A Beem'll of Obse1-vatimUl of
more difficulty then in obtaining information; and when he does not
fish he simply draws upon his memory and retails old facts which he
has told before, occasionally with additions of his own which do not
improve them. His memory seems to be one of extraordinary tenacity
a.nd exactness, but not of infallibility; and its lapses do introduce
error, both of defect and excess.)
lIe seems to be under some compulsion not to be silent. Possibly
the trance would cease if he did not exert himself. At any rate he
chatters on, and one has to discount a good deal of conversation which
is obviously, and sometimes confessedly, introduced as a stop-gap.
"He is rather proud of his skill, and does not like to be told he is
wrong; but when he waxes confidential he admits that he is not
infallible: "he does the best he can," he says, but sometimes "every-
thing seems dark to him," and then he flounders and gropes, and
makes mistakes.)
It is not to he supposed that this floundering is always most con-
spicuous in presence of a stranger. On the contrary, if he is in good
form he will rattle off a stranger's connections pretty glibly, being in-
deed sometimes oppressed with the rush and volume of the information
available; while, if he is in bad trim, he will fish and retail stale news
(especially the latter) to quite an old hand, and one who does not scruple
to accuse him of his delinquencies when they become conspicuous.
This fallibility is unfortunatt', but I don't know that we should
expect anything else; anyhow it is not a question of what we expect,
but of what wt' get. If it were a question of what I for one had
expected, the statement of it would not be worth the w.riting.
Personally I feel sure that Phinuit can hardly help this fishing
process at timt's. He does the best he can, but it would be a great
improvement if, when he realises that conditions are unfavourable, he
would say so and hold his peace. I have tried to impress this upon
him, with the effect that he is sometimes confidential, and says that he
is having a bad time; but after all he probably knows his o\"n busi-
ness best, because it has several times happened that after half an hour
of more or less worthless padding, a few minutes of valuable lucidity
have been attained.
I have laid much stress upon this fishery hypothesis because it is a.
fact to be taken into consideration, because it i'! occasionally an un-
fortunately conspicuous fact, and because of it.'! deterrent effect on a
novice to whom that aspect is first exposed.
But in thus laying stress I feel that I am producing an erroneous
and misleading impression of proportion. I have spoken of a few minutes'
lucidity to an intolerable deal of padding as an occasional experience, bui
in the majority of the sittings held in my presence the converse propor-
tion better represents tho facts.
Digitized by Google
Ceri((in Phenomena of Tmnce. 451
( I am familiar with muscle-reading and other simulated "thought-
transference" methods, and prefer to avoid contact whenever it is
possible to get rid of it without too much fuss. Although Mrs. Piper
always held somebody's hand while preparing to go into the trance,
she did not always continue to hold it when speaking as Phinuit) She
did usually hold the hand of the person she was speaking to, but was
often satisfied for a time with some other person's, sometimes talking
right across a room to and a.bout a stranger, but preferring them to
come near. (On several occasions she let go of everybody, for half-hours
together, especially when fluent and kept well supplied with" relics."
I ha.ve now to assert with entil·e confidence that, pressing the
ingenious-guessing and unconscious-indication hypothesis to its utmost
limit, it can only be held to account for a very few of Dr. Phinuit's
statements.
It cannot in all cases be held to account for medical diagnoses,
afterwards confirmed by the regular practitioner.
It cannot account for minute and full details of names, circumstances,
and events, given to a cautious and almost silent sitter, sometimes with-
out contact. And, to take the strongest case at once, it cannot account
for the narration of facts outside the conscious knowledge of the sitter
or of any pet·son present.
Rejecting the fishery hypothesis, then, as insufficient to account
for many of the facts, we are driven to the only remaining known
cause in order to account for them :-viz., thought-transference, or
the action of mind on mind independently of the ordinary channels of
communication)Whether "thought-transference " be a correct term
to apply to the process I do not pretend to decide. That is a question
for psychologists. V
It may be £thin the reader's knowledge that I regard thc fact
of genuine "thought-transference" between persons in immediate
proximity (not necessarily in contact) as having been established
by direct and simple experiment; and, except by reason of paucity
of instance, I. consider it as firmly grounded as any of the less familiar
facts of nature such as one deals with in a laboratory. (Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. II, p. 189).
I speak of it therefore as a known cause, i.e., one to which there
need be no hesitation in appealing in order to explain facts which
without it would be inexplicable.
The Phinuit fncts are most of them of this nature, and I do not
hesitate to asscrt confidently that tllOugltt-tmltsje1·ence is tlte most
commonplace e.~plan(!tion to tv!tic/~ it is 1108sible to appeal.
I regard it as having been rigorously proved before, and as therefore
requiring no fresh bolstering up; but to the many who have not made
experiments on the subject, and are therefore naturally sceptical
Digitized by Google
452 A Recont of Obse1'Vut'i0'n8 of
concerning even thought-transference, the record of the Phinuit sittings
will afford, I think, a secure basis for faith in this immaterial mode of
communication,-this apparently direct action of mind on mind.
But, whereas the kind of thought-transference which had been to
my own knowledge experimentally proved was a hazy and difficult
recognition by one person of objects kept as vividly as possible in the
consciousness of another person, the kind of thought-transference
necessary to explain these sittings is of an altogether freer and higher
order,-a kind which bas not yet been experimelltally proved at
all. Facts are related wbich are not in the least present to the
consciousness of the sitter, and they are often detailed glibly and
vividly without delay; in very different style from the tedious and
hesitating dimness of the percipients in the old thought-transference
experiments.
But that is natural enough, when we consider that the percipient
in those experiments had to preserve a mind as vacant as possible.
For no process of inducing mental vacancy can be so perfect as that of
going into a trance, whether hypnotic or other.
Moreover, although it was considered desirable to maintain the
object contemplated in the consciousness of the agent, a shrewd
suspicion was even then entertained that the unconscious part of the
agent's brain might be perhaps equally effective.
Hellce Olle is at liberty to apply to these Phinuit records the hypo-
thesis of thought-transference ill its most developed state: absolute
vacuity on the part of the percipient, acted Oll by an entirely sub-con-
scious or ullconscious portion of the sitter's brain.
In this form one feels that much can be explained. If Dr. Phinuit
tells one how mallY children, or brothers, or sisters one has, and their
names; the names of father and mother and grandmother, of cousins and
of aunts; if he brings appropriate and characteristic messages from
well-known relatives deceased; all this is explicable on the hypothesis
of free and easy thought-transference from the sub-consciousness of the
sitter to the sensitive medium of the trance personality.l
So strongly was I impressed with this view that after some half-
dozen sittings I ceased to feel much interest in being told things,
however minute, obscure, and inaccessible they might be, so long as
they were, or had been, withill the knowledge either of ~yself or of
the sitter for the time being. ~
1 For inRtance, in the coul'lle of my intenie\vs, all my six brothers ~ult and
BCattered) and one sister living were correctly named (two with some help), and the
existtlnoo of the one deoeased was mAntioned. My father and his father \Vere likewill8
named, with several uncles and aunts. My wife's father and stepfather were named
in full, both Christian and 8umame, with full identifying detail. I only quote these
as examples; it is quite unnecessary as well as unwise to attach any evidential weight
to statements of this sort made during a sojoum in one's house.
Digitized by Google
l
Oertain Phenomena of Tm-nce. 45~
At the same time it ought to be constantly borne in mind that
this kind of thought-transference without consciously active agency
has never been experimentally proved. Certain facts not otherwise
apparently explicable, such as. those chronicled in PIumta8m8 of tI,e
Living, have suggested it, but it is really only a possible hypothesis
to which appeal has been made whenever any other explanation seems
out of the question. But until it is actua.Uy established by experiment
in the same way that conscious mind action has been established, it
cannot be regarded as either safe or satisfactory; and in pursuing it
we may be turning our backs on some truer but as yet perhaps
unsuggested clue. I feel as if this caution were necessary for myself as
well as for other members of the Society. .
On reading the record it will be apparent that ~hile " Phinuit "
frequently speaks in his own person, relating things which he himself
discovers by what I suppose we must call ostensible clairvoyance, some-
times he represents himself as in communication-not always quite
easy and distinct communication, especially at first, but in communica-
tion-with one's relatives and friends who have departed this life.
The messages and communications from these persons are usually
given through Phinuit as a reporter. And he reports sometimes in the
third person, sometimes in the first. Occasionally, but very seldom,
Phinuit seems to give up his place altogether to the other personality,
friend or relative, who then communicates with something of his old
manner and individuality; becoming often impressive and realist.i=.J
This last I say is rare, but with one or two personages it occurs,
subject to reservations to be mentioned directly; and when it does,
Phinuit does not appear to know what has been said. It is quite as
if he in his turn evacuated the body, just as Mrs. Piper had done,
while a third personality utilises it for a time. The voice and mode of
address are once more changed, and more or less recall the voice and
manner of the person represented as communicating.
The communications thus obtained, though they show traces of the
individuality of the person represented as speaking, are frequently
vulgarised; and the speeches are more commonplace, and so to say
cheaper, than what one would suppose likely from the person himself.
It can, of course, be suggested that the necessity of working through the
brain of a person not highly educated may easily be supposed capable of
dulling the edge of refinement, and of rendering messages on a.bstruse
subjects impossible.
Among sitters, I may mention Gerald Rendall, late of Trinity
College, Cambridge, Principal of University College, Liverpool. He
was introduced as Mr. Roberts, and a sitting was immedia.tely com-
menced. The names of his brothers were all given correctly at this or
Digitized by Google
4540 A ReCQ/'d of Obse?'Vat'ions of
at the evening sitting of the same day, with many specific details which
were correct.
He brought with him a locket, and received communications and
l'eminiscences purporting to come from the deceased friend whom it.
commemorated, some of them at present incompletely verified by reason
of absence of persons in America, some of them apparently incorrect.
but those facts which he knew correctly stated in such a way as to
satisfy him that chance guessing and all other commonplace surmises
were absurdly out of the question. (Sittings 37 and 38.)
Another sitter was E. C. K. Gonner, Lecturer on Economics at
University College, Liverpool, mtroduced as Mr. McCunn, a.nother
colleague with whom he hoped to be confused. He brought a book
belonging to his mother, still living in London, and had many correct
details concerning her family and surroundings related to him.
Many of his own family were also mentioned; but, whether because
of the book or otherwise, his mother's influence seemed more powerful
than his own; and, several times, relath'es, though otherwise spoken of
correctly, were mentioned in terms of their relationship to the elder
generation. Phinuit, however, seemed conscious of these mistakes and
several times corrected himself; as for instance: Your brother William-
no, I mean your uncle, her brother.
This Uncle WiIliam was a good instance. He had died before Gonner
was born, but he had been his mother's eldest brother, and his
sudden death had been a great shock to her·-one in fact from which she
was a. long time recovering. Phinuit described him as having been killed
with a hole in his head, like a shot hole, and yet not a shot, more like
a blow :-the fact being that he met his death in a Yorkshire election
riot, a stone striking him on the head. (Sitting No. 39, p. 490.)
Speaking of deaths, I may also mention the case of my wife's father
who died when she was a fortnight old in a dramatic and pathetic
fashion. Phinuit described the circumstances of his death rather vividly.
The cause of death of her stepfather also, which was perfectly definite,
was also precisely grasped. The fall of her own father down. the hold
of his ship and his consequent leg-pain were clearly stated. My wife
was present on these occasions, and of course had been told of all these
incidents, and l'Cmembered them. (Sitting No. 36, pp. 4;2, &c.)
Another sitter was a medical practitioner in Liyerpool, introduced
anonymously, who was told a number of facts, not all of them correct;
but the name, tastes, and defect of one little deaf and dumb girl of
whom he is very fond were vividly stated. My childl'Cn are not
acquainted with his. (Sittings 42 and 43.)
Another, a very impromptu and in<-'Onvenient sitter, was a short-
hand clerk whom I had introduced as a note-taker, but whose relatives
were represented as clamouring for a conversation with him; and I
Digitized by Google
Ce?1(tin Phenomena of Tmnce. 455
must needs be tumed out of the room while Phinuit "straightened
out," as he called it, the young fellow's connections. A fair part ot
what was said is perfectly true, so he says, but other parts he either
denies or is unable to verify. (Sitting 48, p. 519.)
One of the best sitters was my next-door neighbour, Isaac C_
Thompson, F.L.S., to whose name indeed, before he had been in any
way introduced, Phinuit sent a message purporting to come from his
father. Three generations of his and of his wife's family living and
dead (small and compact Quaker families) were, in the course of two or
three sittings, conspicuously mentioned, with identifying detail; the
main informant representing himself as his deceased brother, a young
Edinburgh doctor, whose loss had been mourned some 20 years ago.
The familiarity and touchingness of the messages communicated in this
particular instance were very remarkable, and can by no means be
reproduced in any printed report of the sitting. (Nos. 45, 50, 80.
81, and 83.)
Their case is one in which very few mistakes were made, the details
standing out vividly correct, so that in fact they found it impossible
not to believe that their relatives were actually speaking to them.
This may sound absurd, but it correctly represents the impression pro-
duced by a favourable series of sittings, and it is for that reason I
mention it now.
Simple events occurring elsewhere during the sitting were also
detected by Dr. Phinuit in their case, better than in any other I know
of. (For instance, the "rings" episode, on p. 546.)
Another rather remarkable case arrived towards the end of my
series of sittings, when this friend of mine was present. A message
interpolated itself to a gentleman living in Liverpool, known, but not at
all intimately known, to both of us, and certainly outside of OUI'
thoughts-the head of the Liverpool Post-office, :Mr. Rich. The
message purported to be from a son of his who had died suddenly a few
months ago, and whom I had never seen; though my friend had, it
seems, once or twice spoken to him.
He addressed my friend by name and besought him to conyey II
message to his father, who, he said, was much stlicken by the blow,
and who was suffeling from a recent occasional dizziness in his head,
so that he felt afraid he should have to retire from business. Othel-
little things were mentioned of an identifying character; and the
message was, a few days later, duly conveyed. The facts stated were
admitted to be accurate; and the father, though naturally inclined to
be sceptical, confessed that he had indeed been more than ordinarily
troubled at the sudden death of his eldest son, because of a recent.
unfortunate estrangement between them which would otherwise have
been only temporary.
456 .A Record of Observations of
The only thought-transference explanation I can reasonably offer
him is that it was the activity of his own mind, operating on the sensitive
brain of the medium, of whose existence he knew absolutely nothing,
.and contriving to send a delusive message to itself!
One thing about which the son seemed anxious was a certain black
~ which he asked us to speak to his father about, and to say he did
not want lost. The father did not know what case was meant: but I
have heard since indirectly that on his death-bed the son was calling out
.about a black case, though I cannot learn that the particular case has
been yet securely identified. (No. 83, p 554.)
Contemplating these and such like communications, I could not help
f~ling that if it be really a case of thought-transference at all, it is
thought-transference of a surprisingly vivid kind, the proof of which
would be very valuable, supposing it were the correct explanation of the
phenomenon.
But I felt doubtful if it were the correct explanation. One must not
.shut one's eyes to the ponibilitll that in pursuing a favourite hypothesis
-one may after all be on the wrong tack altogether.
A known hypothesis must be stretched to the utmost before one is
willing to admit an unknown one: and indeed to abandon this last
known link of causation as inadequate to sustain the growing weight
-of facts was an operation not to be lightly undertaken. And yet I felt
,grave doubts whether it would really suffice to explain the fact.s;
whether indeed it went any distance toward their explanation.
Things were sometimes told to me and to others so entirely foreign
to our conscious thought that at first they were not recognised as true
or intelligible, and only gradually or by subsequent explanation was the
meaning clearly perceived.
But something of the same experience is gone through in dreams ;
one sometimes feels surprised at the tum IL dream conversation is
taking, and has the feeling also occasionally of learning something new.
Hence this argument is not of much strength taken alone.
Another argument bases itself on the mistakes which Dr. Phinuit
sometimes unaccountably made. One noteworthy instance is called
attention to by one of my sitters, whose father, in the midst of
much that was correct and striking, was reported as saying that his
name was John. Now his son, the sitter, was '\ividly conscious that
his deceased father's name was not John, but was Peter. No know-
ledge of this, however, was shown by Phinuit; though, 1?y subsequently
seyeral times quoting the name as Thomas, he seemed to show con-
sciousness that there had been an error somewhere. (Sitting 39.)
The only explanation of this that I can suggest, beyond mere bungle
and error, is that I was in the room also taking notes, and though I of
course knew the surname, I was quite ignorant of the Christian name.
Digitized by Google
Oe1'iain Phenomena of Trance. 451
and was naturally as well satisfied with John or Thomas as with any-
thing else. I simply recorded all that was said in a quite unbiassed
manner.
Conceivably, therefore, the trance-person may, for that item or
information, have been reading my brain instead of the sitter's; but a-
mass of other facts were given, known to him and not at all known to
me; so that, as I say, the hypothesis of thought-transference has to be
wriggled and stretched a little.
However, I was willing to stretch it to any required length, ~
long as it would not actually snap. But feeling that it did not really
commend itself, I endeavoured to apply some crucial tests.
And the first was a few children's alphabet letters, pinched up at ran-
dom, put in a pill box without looking, and sealed by me in the presence
of Prof. Carey Foster a month or so previously. This box I now handed
to "Dr. Phinuit" and asked him what was inside it, telling him at the
same time that no one on earth knew, and requesting him to do his best.
He immediately asked for a pencil, and holding the box to his
forehead, shaking it a little at intervals, as if to disentangle the contents
and bring them more clearly before him, wrote down some letters on a-
bit of cardboard held for him.
I thanked him, and next morning, for better security, asked him to
try again. He did, and wrote down just the same letters, even to the
extent of saying which way they happened to face in the box.
I wrote two accounts of the contents of the box, one to Mr. Myers
and one to Prof. Carey Foster, under seal, telegraphing to him to know
if he were at home and ready to receive the box, assure himself that it
had not been tampered with (though indeed it had not been out of my
possession all the time), and then to open it and write out the letters
and their aspects, in full detail, before opening my sealed account.
He replied, "Yes," and I sent him the box registered and insured.
All the letters were wrong but two.
According to chance, if they had been pinched from a single
alphabet, two should have been guessed right. The box from which
they had been pinched contained many alphabets, but practically the
conclusion of the experiment was utterly negative. The letters had
not been read. (Sitting No. 40, p. 493.)
This experiment inclined me strongly to some thought-transference
explanation, as distinct from what seemed to me the more unknown and
,"ague region of clairvoyanQe.
If the letters themselves could be really directly perceived, the fact
that they existed in nobody's mind could not matter. But if mindB
only could be read, then it was essential that someone somewhere should
be cognisant of the letters.
I do not mean that it would do to base so clear a conclusion on the
Digitized by Google
458 A Record of Observations of
result of one negative experiment. It is an experiment which I want
to repeat again and again; though Phinuit doesn't much care for this
kind of thing, and says it strains him.
If the experiment had succeeded it would have established clair-
voyance: whatever that may mean. I am unable to grasp its meaning.
It seems to me a violent hypothesis and last resort, and I do not feel
driven to it yet.
I have also handed to "Dr. Phinuit" epistles, which I had read
indeed but forgotten; and one of these was partially read. [po 335.
Sitting No. 78.] He does not profess to be good at this sort of thing;
and usually fails, at least in my experience, to give more than a vague
and unsatisfactory general resume of the subject matter-too vague to
be of any evidential use. I have not, however, tried this kind of experi-
ment often, finding that it apparently exhausts the power uselessly.
All this seemed to me to strengthen the hypothesis of thought-trans-
ference so far as it went.
So I set to work to try and obtain, by the regular process of com-
munication which suits this particular medium, facts which were not
only out of my knowledge but which never could have been in it.
Unfortunately, in giving an account of these experiments, it is
necessary to mention occasionally trivial details concerning one's rela-
tions which would ordinarily be inconsequential or even impertinent.
The occasion is the excuse.
It happens that an uncle of mine in London, now quite an old man,
and one of a surviving three out of a very large family, had a twin
brother who died some twenty or more years ago. I interested him
generally in the subject, and wrote to ask if he would lend me some
relic of this brother. By morning post on a certain day I received a.
c;urious old gold watch, which this brother had worn and been fond of ;
and that same morning, no one in the house having seen it or knowing
anything about it, I handed it to Mrs. Piper when in a state of trance.
I was told almost immediately that it had belonged to one of my
uncles--one that had been mentioned before as having died from the
effects of a fall-one that had been very fond of Uncle Robert, the
name of the survivor-that the watch was now in possession of this
same Uncle Robert, with whom he was anxious to communicate. After
some difficulty and many wrong attempts Dr. Phinuit caught the name,
.Jerry, short for Jeremiah, and said emphatically, as if a third person was
speaking, "This is my watch, and Rober~ is my brother, and I am
here. Uncle Jerry, my watch." All this at the tirst sitting on the
very morning the watch had arrived by post, no one but myself and
a shorthand clerk who happened to have been introduced for the first
time at this sitting by me, and whose antecedents are well known
to me, Leing present. (No. 44.)
Digitized by Goo~
Oertain Phenornena of Tl'(lnce. 459
Haying thus ostensibly got into communication through some lUeans
or other with what purported to be a deceased relatiYe, whom I had
indeed known slightly in his later years of blindness, but of whose early
life I knew nothing, I pointed out to him that to make Unc]a Robert
aware of his presence it would be well to recall trivial details of their
boyhood, all of which I would faithfully report.
He quite caught the idea., and proceeded during several successive
sittings ostensibly to instruct Dr. Phinuit to mention a number of little
things such as would enable his brother to recognise him.
References to his blindness, illness, and main facts of his life were
comparatively useless from my point of view; but these details of boy-
hood, two-thirds of a century ago, were utterly and entirely out of my
ken. My father was one of the younger members of the family, and
only knew these brothers as men.
" Uncle Jerry" recalled episodes such as swimming the creek when
they were boys together, and running some risk of getting drowned;
killing a cat in Smith's field; the possession of a small rifle, and of a
long peculiar skin, like a snake-skin, which he thought was now in
the possession of Uncle Robert. (Nos. 44 and 46, especially pp. 503,
515, 516,517.)
All these facts have been more or less completely verified. But the
interesting thing is that his twin brother, from whom I got the watch,
and with whom I was thus in a sort of communication, could not
remember them all. He recollected something about swimming the
creek, though he himself had merely looked on. He had a distinct
recollection of having had the snake-skin, and of the box in which it
was kept, though he does not know where it is now. But he altogether
denied killing the cat, and could not recall Smith's field.
His memory, however, is decidedly failing him, and he was good
enough to write to another brother, Frank, living in Cornwall, an old
sea captain, and ask if he had any better remembrance of certain facts
-of course not giving any inexplicable reasons for asking. The result
of this inquiry was triumphantly to vindicate the existence of
Smith's field as a place near their home, where they used to play, in
Barking, Essex; and the killing of a cat by another brother was also
recollected; while of the swimming ·of the creek, near a mill-race, full
details were given, Frank and Jerry being the heroes of that fOOlhardy
episode. (See notes at end of first series, p. 526.)
Some of the other facts given I have not yet been able to get
verified. Perhaps there are as many unverified as verified. And some
things appear, so far as I can make out, to be false. One little thing I
could verify myself, and it is good, inasmuch as no one is likely to have
had any recollection, even if they had any knowledge, of it. Phinuit
told me to take the watch out of its case (it was the old-fashioned turnip
Digitized by Google
460 A Record of Observations of
variety) and examine it in a good light afterwards, and I should see
some nicks near the handle which Jerry said he had cut into it with his
knife (p. 518).
Some faint nicks are there. I had never had the watch out of its
case before; being, indeed, careful neither to finger it myself nor to let
anyone else finger it.
I neycr let Mrs. Piper in her waking state see the watch till quite
towards the end of the time, when I purposely left it lying on my desk
while she came out of the trance. Before long she noticed it, with
natural curiosity, evidently becoming conscious of its existence then
for the first time.
I may say here that Dr. Phinuit has a keen "scent "-shall I
call it 1-for trinkets or personal valuables of all kinds. He recognised
a ring which my wife wears as having been given " to me for her" by a.
specified aunt just before her death (p. 516), of which he at another
time indicated the cause fairly well. He called for a locket which my
wife sometimes wears, but had not then on, which had belonged to her
father 40 yem'S ago. (No. 36.) He recognised my father's watch,
asked for the chain belonging to it, and was still unsatisfied for want of
some appendage which I could not think of at the time, but which my
wife later on reminded me of, and Phinuit at another sitting seized, as
a seal which had been usually worn with it, and which had belonged
to my grandfather. (Nos. 50 and 79.)
He pulled my sister's watch out of her pocket and said it had been
her mother's, but disconnected the chain and said that didn't belong,
which was quite right. (No. 83.) Even little pocket things, such as
fruit-knives and corkscrews, he also assigned to their late owners; and
once he quite unexpectedly gripped the ann of the chair Mrs. Piper was
sitting in, which had never been mentioned to him in any way, and said
that it had belonged to my Aunt Anne. It was quite true: it was an
old-fashioned ordinary type of armchair which she valued and had had
re-upholstered for us as a wedding present 12 years ago. Phinuit, by the
way, did not seem to realise that it was a chair: he asked what it was
and said he took it for part of an organ. (No. 82, p. 548.)
But perhaps the best instance of a recognised object was one
entrusted to me by 0. gentleman abroad, quite a recent friend of mine,
with whom I had been staying recently,-a chain which had belonged
to his father. (The name of this friend I conceal, in case he might not
wish it published.)
The package was delivered by hand one evening at my house, and,
by good luck, I happened to meet the messenger and receive it direct.
Next morning I handed it to Dr. Phinuit, saying only, in response to
his feeling some difficulty about it, that it did not belong to 0. relative.
He said it belonged to an old man and had his son's influence on it. Next
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena of Trance. 461
sitting I tried the chain again, and he very soon reported the old gentle-
man as present, and recognising the chain but not recognising me. I
explained that his son had entrusted me with it; on which Phinuit said
the chain belonged now to "George Wilson," away for health, a preacher,
and a lot of other details all known to me, and all correct. The old
gentleman was then represented as willing to write his name. A name
was written in the backward manner Phinuit sometimes affects. It
was legible afterwaros in a mirror as James Wilson. Now, the name
of his father I was completely ignorant of (p. 538).
I explained to the old gentleman, if one may use such a phrase
merely for the sake of brevity and as accurately expressing the state of
behaviour one has to put oneself into in this investigation in order to
obtain good result&:-I say I explained to the old gentleman that
his son desired to hear from him, and asked him to be good enough to
prove his identity.
Whereupon, at intervals, a number of specific though trivial facts
were mentioned. They were frequently admitted to be trivial in an
apologetic way, but nevertheless would serve as good evidence; better
than more conspicuous ones indeed.
I took them down as well as I could, knowing absolutely nothing of
the correctness or incorrectness of most of them. Such facts as I did
know were correct. Hence I had good hopes of another crucial test
here.
Everything which I knew being stated correctly, if all those things
which I did not know should tum out inaccurate or false, I should be
forcibly impelled towards a direct thought-transference expla.na.tion for
this entire set.
But, on the other hand, if these things of which I had absolutely
never heard or dreamt should tum out true, then some further step
must be taken. (Nos. 78-83.)
In this state I continued for several months. For though I sent
out to Africa 8. transcript of the evidence, it was only three weeks ago
that I received any reply (p. 530).
The reply is important and distinct. It recognises the correctness
of those things which I knew, and it asserts the total incorrectness of
those things of which I was ignorant. So far as this series of facts goes,
therefore, the hypothesis of a direct thought-transferential means of
obtaining information is immensely strengthened. I can indeed
hardly resist the conclusion that the series of facts purporting to be
related by the elder Mr. Wilson have no more substantiality than II.
dream of my own; that I was, so to speak, dreaming by proxy, and
imposing upon myself, through the mouth of the medium, a number of
statements such as it is not difficult to imagine reported to one in a
dream. I trust I am making it clear that I was not the least in
2 K
Digitized by Google
462 A Reco'rd of ObservatiO'1l8 of
a. dreamy or somnolent condition; but whereas in a. dream some
automatic part of the brain imposes on one's consciousness a collection
of imaginary facts, so this same automatic part of my brain may ha'\"e
been imposing on Dr. Phinuit, and leading him to tell me, in what was
apparently good faith, a series of imaginary episodes: deluding us
both into supposing it possible that they had a basis of truth.l
The result of the experiment is thus definite, though it would be
a rather rapid induction to dra,v a general conclusion from it. It is to
be remembered that I did obtain, in the case of my uncle, a statement
of things quite unknown to me.
The difference, of course, is that these were relatives; and though
some of the events happened almost before my father was born, yet he
might ha"e heard some gossip about them in his boyhood. It is far
more unlikely that I myself had ever heard anything about them,
because of lapse of time and other circumstances, but the possibility of
even this can hardly be excluded in the case of e\'ents which haye
occurred in a family, even in the elder generation of it.
I can only say that I have not the slightest recollection of ever
having heard them. Somebody living knew them, of course, or else they
could not have been verified; but they were not known to anyone
present. (See further remarks, p. 527 ; also Index, p. 649,)
Something of the same sort was suggested by an experiment my
friend Mr. Gonner had arranged at an early sitting. (No. 39.) He had
combined with his sister in London to watch their mother at a certain
hour on a certain day, not telling her anything about it, but at the
same time trying to coax her into doing something extraordinary, for
reasons to be afterwards explained. We found afterwards that the
selection of an unusual proceeding consisted in dri"ing round Regent's
Park in a hansom cab in the wet. And this is what she was doing
during the time her son was sitting at Liverpool, with Dr. Phinuit, hold-
ing a little book of hers to Mrs. Piper's head. He had carefully not
arranged or suggested anything as a suitable proceeding, but he had a
presentiment that some not very striking occurrence would prooobly be
deemed sufficient. It is impossible to say that the idea of a possible
outdoor excursion may not have been latent in his mind.
We were completely ignorant of what was going on in London, but
Dr. Phinuit described the surroundings of the old lady and the two
girls who were with her-described her as being over-persuaded to go
out, though she didn't want to, and as going clearly through the
operation of outdoor dressing: several minute actions, such as opening
1 It JIlIIoy be just worth mentioning that although "James" \\'1\8 not the name of
Mr. Wilson's father (whOl!e name WI\8 Goorge, the Rame as his own), yet it waa the
name of his grandfather; and that some of the 8tatements of events would haye a
truer ring if they hall purported to come from the grandfather.
Digitized by Google
· Cel-tain Pherwmena of Tmnce. 463
a box, taking up a photograph from dressing-table to look at, and so
on, being mentioned correctly. But there he stopped. We did not
get to Regent's Park and the cab, though that 'fas the stage reached
while he was speaking, but he stopped short at the stage reached just
about when the sitting began; though he said he was describing the
present moment (p. 488). More experiments of this nature are wanted,
and very likely have been made by others. I do not pretend that this
experiment by itself is quite satisfactory, but it is striking as far as it
goes, and the thought-transference aspect of it is this :-
The evcnts could not have been obtained from our minds, for we
knew nothing of them. . The book established, we will suppose, rapport
with the old lady, but this rapport must have been very one-sided, for
she knew nothing whatever about our proceedings; nor did her com-
panion, the young lady who accompanied her. [See notes at end of
first series, p. 529.] If experiments like this ca.n be got to succeed
definitely, we seem driven to suppose that the mind of a neutral uncon-
scious person can be read at any distance, even though engaged in
other things and thinking other thoughts, connection being established
by some link, such as a bit of jewellery, an old letter, or a lock of
ha.ir, and sometimes no connection being established at all.
There is no doubt a step further, or, as it is often thought, nn
alternative step, which some enthusiastic persons a.re indignant with us
for not being able to take at once. I don't know whether to call it a step
further or an alternative step. The step is to suppose that thought-
transference can go on from the very persons who are ostensibly speaking
and sending messages. This hypothesis is one that obtrudes itself
cbnstantly ; and the reports are necessarily saturated with its language
and atmosphere. It is difficult not to be occasionally impelled towards
it, so vividly is it presented, and yet I hardly know whether it is
possible seriously to contemplate it as an explanation.
To the obvious and superficial aspect, the settin!! of the communica-
tions, the Spiritualistic hypothesis lends itself naturally; and, since it
seems the natural mode for the trance-personality to express itself, it is
impossible to conduct a satisfactory series of sittings, or to give a faith-
ful report of them, without employing its terminology; but whether it
really assists towards an explanation of the phenomena" or whether it
is even capable of scientific statement and examination, I do not feel
competent to express an opinion.
It is a puzzling matter to incorporate into science the reeently-
established fact of an extraordinary or apparently direct action between
mind and mind, both possessing brains; and a. kind of disembodied
action seems likely to be still more puzzling.
Even if such a hypothesis could be intelligently granted I do not
see that it would explain all the facts. Not those last related, f()r
2 K 2
Digitized by Google
46-l! A &corel of Observcttio'nlJ of
instance; nor Phinuit's skill in recognising diseases and contemporary
events. Thought-transference does better for some of these; but I
hardly think it serves for all. This is a very important point, and if
I discuss it further I should prefer to do so after examining the entire
record of facts and contemplating them as a whole.
If we reject ordinary thought-transference as inadequate, it seems
as if we should be driven to postulate direct clain"oyance ; to suppose
that in a trance a person is able to enter a region where miscellaneous
information of all kinds is readily ayailable; where, for instance, tim&
and space are not; so that everything that has happened, whether at
a distance or close at hand, whether long ago or recently, can be seen
or heard and de.scriherl. Letters in a box, for instance (which, though
not read in my case, are said to be sometimes read), might be read on
this hypothesis by harking back to the time before they were put in ;
or, if we assume it possible to see the future also, by looking forward
to the time when they were taken out. A fourth dimension of space is
knmvn to get O\"er difficulties like this, and an omnipresent time is very
like a fourth dimension"
Then, again, old fncts, such as the boyish acts related of my uncle~
must be supposed llarrated not by him nor by his agency at all, but by
Mrs. Piper, a direct onlooker at the past in her state of trance.
I see no way of getting round such an elastic hypothesis as this. It;
could explain anything and everything; but is it not rather like postu-
lating omniscience, anrl considering that an explanation 1 It is all very
well to call a thing clairvoyance, but the thing so called stands just as
much in need of explanation as before.
Undoubtedly Mrs. Piper in the ~rance state has access to some
abnonnal sources of information, and is for the time cognisant of facta
which happened long ago or at a distance; but the question is how she
becomes cognisant of them. Is it by going up the stream of time and
witnessing those actions as they occurred; or is it through information
received from the still existent actors, themselves dimly remembering
anrl relating them; or, again, is it through the influence of contemporary
and otherwise occupied minds holding stores of forgotten information in
their brains and offering them unconsciously to the perception of the
entranced person; or, lastly, is it by falling back for the time into a.
ono Universal Mind of which all ordinary consciousnessea past and
present are but portions 1 I do not know which is the least ex-
tTllvagant supposition.
Possibly some hypothesis more simple than any of these may be,
or by German psychologists has been, invented, but at present I feel as
if it were unlikely that anyone explanation will fit all the facts. It
rather feels as if we were at the beginning of what is practically a.
.fresh branch of science; and that to pretend to frame explanatio~
Digitized by Google
Certa.in, Phe'YIomena of T-rmlCe. 465
except in the most tentative and elastic fashion for the purpose of
threading the facts together and suggesting fresh fields for experiment,
is as premature as it would have been for Galvani to have expounded
the nature of Electricity, or Copernicus the laws of Comets and
Meteors. ~_
DETAILED REPORT OF SITTINGS.
Here follows a mention of every sitting I had with lIrs. Piper,
numbered so as to fit in chronological order with the sittings superin-
tended by other persons. Sometimes the report is fairly lull-some-
times much abbreviated. It would be tedious to quote everything, and
I use what judgment I can to give a fair estimate of the proceedings.
When it happens that the notes taken permit of a very full report,
such a report is once or twice given; but it will, I hope, be realised
that this is done to increase the vividness of the report, not by any
means with the idea that every word said is important. In one sense,
indeed, it may be impossible for anyone to tell at this stage of the
inquiry what is really important and what is not. All one can do is to
preserve the original records for the purpose of testing such theories as
may be forthcoming in the future.
When the failures or successes offer anything obviously instl"Uctive,
or when they are unintelligible to strangers without explanation, I
append a note to them; at other times I pass them by with merely
sufficient indication to show whether they are fairly correct or fairly
incorrect.
As already explained, it is convenient to call l\ll-s. Piper in the
trance-state "Dr. Phinuit," because that is what she then calls herself.
A little confusion between masculine and feminine pronouns may be
thus introduced, but, on the whole, it assists the exp~ion of facti;.
The first sitting in which I took part was at Mr. llyers' house in
Cambridge under circumstances related above (p. 444). It ranks No. 16
in the complete series.
Sittittg No. 16, at Cambridge, NOI'embel· 30th, 1889, 11.30 (I.m.
Oliver Lodge, holding hands. F. W. H. M. in another part of room,
other side of curtains, taking notes.
After preliminaries :-
Have you anything to ask me 1
O. L. (as instructed beforehand by F. W. H. M.): "Can you tell me
about my relations 1"
I get your mother's influence. She's very near to you, a good mother to
you.
O. L. (stupidly indicating the fact of decease): "Yes, she was."
She comes close to you in the spirit world. Your father is in the spirit
also.
Digitized by Google
466 A Record of Obsel'l.'ations of
·'Yes."
Also an uncle, brother of your mother, in the spirit.
" What is his name 1"
Dou't get his name, Who's Alfred 1 He is in the body.
"Yes."
There is an uncle in the spirit, your mother's brother.
"Yes."
Do you know Margaret 1
"No."
This is your wife's aunt-name not quite Margaret-M-A-R. Mary,
that's the name. She is a near relstion of your wife.
" Don't know her."
There is an uncle William belongs to the lady whose name I was trying
to get. He is in the. spirit. The aunt is in the body. She bas a sister in
the spirit who passed out years ago.
"Very likely. Don't know."
NOTE.-This William and Mary episode meets with a probable explana-
tion further on.
There is one called tElla. Who called Thomas T-H-O-M. He is,
gmndfather·-no, father--()f your wife.
[This is not the case.]
Did you have a brother who went away several years ago 1
"Yes."
You have not heard from him for a long time 1
"No."
Not for four or five months at least.
" Longer than that."
Well, you will hear from him 8OOn.~ .I perceive his influence a long way
off', and be is thinking of you.
" Can you tell me where my brother is 1"
A-f-Africa.
"No."
A-m. Aus-Austra-what you call Australia.
"Well, he went to Australia, but he is not there now.'
I get bis influence from Australia.
" What sort of fellow is he 1"
A sbrt of happy-go-lucky fellow-taking the world as it is-wanting to
see a good deal of it. Rather positive, likes to keep his own ideas. Not se:.
deep in mind as you are, but deep in feeling. Feels a great deal. He is
just planning a letter for you to get. Note this. This is something yoa
don't know.
"Well, I will."
LTh~ about my brother is practically true, except that lIe is in America,.
to the best of my belief, at the present time, certainly not Australia~
though he was there several years; of course I cannot answer for
the prediction nor anr part of it at present. (See Note 1 at end or
sitting; also p. 513.)J
You have a son in the body-a SlDart boy-clever, but not very strong-
weak-delicate. If you take good care of hinl he will make a fine man ; but
Digitized by Google
Ce'rtain Plumornena of Tmnce. 467
I can't see his etherial plainly-not continuing plainly. He is ill-he has
got worms badly-I can see his physical, and worms all inside him.
" Ought he to go to school 1"
By no means. You ought to keep him at home and nurse him, and give
him vermifuge. You will, won't you 1 Worms are his chief trouble ; they
consume his food, his stomach is filled with slime; he feels nausea; no
ambition; rather irritable.
[All this about my eldest boy is painfully true, except that it is perhaps
a little exaggerated. We had suspected worms before, and per-
ceiving the outside symptoms correctly described as above, we took
the matter in hand seriously, and after acting for some days under
medical advice we established the truth of the above statement
precisely.]
" Can you tell me what his favourite pursuit is 1"
[This I asked because he exhibits a remarkable and constant hankering
after architecture, spending all his spare time when not feeling sick
and headachy in drawing plans of houses and in reading about
bUildings. The reply was utterly wide of the mark.]
Pursuit 1 oh, takes an interest in natural things; is musical.
There is an Alice, do you know an Alice 1 That's a girl, thAt's not her
name-there are two in1luences. Wait a bit, there's a baby-a little chap, a
boy.
"Right."
The next a boy, the next a girl, the next a boy, the next a boy-what a
lot of children you have!
One has got a spot right here (touching forehead just under hair), a mark
-a small scar, also on cheek bone under ear (indicating with finger). One
has something the matter here (touching calf of leg).
" Yes."
[Some of the children have marks; one has a birthmark under hair, and
one a small permanent scar on neck, under ear, neither consciously
remembered by me at the time; but among so many there need be
nothing but coincidence. Statements not sufficiently precise to be
useful evidence. The girl is really younsest but one; but I pardly
know where she comes without thinking.J .
The one with the trouble in calf of leg is the same inftuence as before-
it's not the one with the worms but it's the same in1luence, isn't that curious 1
" Yos, but I don't know myself which it is."
[My impression was that one of them might have rheumatism in his leg,
for I knew his heels had troubled him in walking, and our doctor
had recently pronounced it rheumatism. It is the one most like my
eldest boy. Possibly this fact, vaguely running in my mind, may
account for the above v~e and unsatisfactory statements. (See,
however, Note 2, p. 469.)J
Have you got a George, J-O-R-G-E 1
"No."
Who does Arthur belong to 1 You 1
"No."
(To F. W. H. M.) That's yours, isn't it, Fred 1
"Yes."
Digitized by Google
468 .A Record of Observcttioi18 of
It's the fowth from the baby that has the trouble in calf. It's a girl ; no,
I get confused. I will tell you directly. There's a baby, then a boy, then a
girl, then a boy, then a boy fourth from baby that has trouble on right leg.
That's his, it's a boy.
"Yes."
[The one whom I had vaguely in my mind does happen to be the
fourth, but there was nothing really the matter when I got back.
His heels still trouble him at times, rheumatic apparently. (See
Note 2 at end.)]
It's another that's II. girl. You call one Charles.
"No."
It's spelt with a C.
"I have got II. brother Charles; but never mind the children, they are too
many, and I get confused among them often myself." .
Ab, ha, well you needn't wonder at me then.
" No. Tell me about other relations, my mother, for instance."
I get your mother's in1luence, but not clear yet. Who is Elizabeth 1
You have a great many relations.
" That's true."
Do you know Uncle William 1
"No."
I like that in1luence-a nice in1luence that-serious-rather depressed.
"No. I don't know whom you mean."
This .. Uncle William" was mentioned before \see above) and not
understood by me, and to the only Uncle William of my wife's the
description now given does not at all apply. But on mentioning it to
her, she recognised the Aunt Mary and Uncle William as her mother
and stepfather-the latter having adopted her from childhood and
become very fond of her and her children; and to him the descrip-
tion applies exactly: except of course the kinship erroneously
mentioned. (Phinuit corrected this himself at II. later sitting. pp.
474,495, and subsequently gave his full name, p. 604.) Next follows
the most striking and impressive element of the whole sitting; with-
out which, indeed, it would have been vague and unsstisfactory-too
much apparent guessing and too little precisely a.ccurnte ; but noW'
the. manner became more earnest and energetic and continuous.
Anne-A-N-N. This is your best in1luence. If you had had this
influence all your life you would have been the better, mind that. This is
not the mother, but one of the best influences that ever struck you-like a
sister. Of all the influences in your life I like her the best. She is nearer to
me than any other spirit-dearer to you than anyone else. She is in the
spirit. You have a letter or had one from her, but they are all gone.
She will watch over you; her in1luence will always be with you. She will
always come to you when you are getting truth; when you are being
deceived she will not be there. You met her a long time ago. She sends
much love. She looked after you. If you were in trouble. it pained her.
She bad care of you in II. way. Aunt Anne---on your mother's side-a sister
of your mother's-they always called ber Aunt Anne. Your mother passed
(lut, and then she had charge of you. Have you got a little old-fashioned
picture of ber, 011 a small card '/
"Yes."
Digitized by Google
Oertain Plte1Wmena of Tmltce. 469
[The probability of the existence of /lOme portrait is, of course, great,
but it is perhaps worth noting that a couple of old cu.1e de risite size
photograph8 are all I have of her.]
If you would look at that picture, and realise her pre8ence, she would
know it. She is here now. "My boy, I am with you. I atn Aunt Anne.
I tried to help you. I had little means (distinct, but rapid talk-too rapid
to get down; all impreSBively delivered), poor 8urroundings ; but I did all I
could. I would have done more if I could. I have got the baby."
"What baby 1"
I don't know, it'8 one of yOl11"8-a girl-a little thing; no, wait a bit,
that's wrong-the girl's in the body; it's a little boy in the spirit she's look-
ing after. There are two, a boy particularly. I don't see the other much.
This is a boy in the spirit, she's got that. She 8I\ys, "God keep you as you
are." That spirit makes me feel weak, tickling in throat and breast (feeling
all overher chest and mine), bronchial trouble, a little asthmatic,-pneumonia,
a little husky whenshe talks to me-clears her throat. A trouble here (feeling
chest and stomach), a trouble in stomach, and at last passed out of the body
with that illne88, inflammation. Hair on top of head "ery plain ; put back,
tied up at back-not frizzled, plain. Very neat in her dre88, firm expreSBion
about the mouth. Your mother passed out first. I can't tell you about
your mother now.
[All this about my aunt is practically true as it stands, except that the
immediate cause of death was an operation for cancer in the breast.
The nature of the pain was indicated to me more clearly by the
graspings and hand indicationa of Dr. Phinuit on Mrs. Piper's body
than by his words. The meSBages from my aunt were delivered
very much in her own serious manner, and conform closely to my
noti01l8 of her. (See also next page.) As to the unverifiable portio1l8:
it is true that I have lost two children, one a boy soon after hirth, the
other stillborn, and asserted at the time to have been a hoy, but
rather carelessly.] [Further twte added July, 189()'--The following
are extracts from our doctor's note-book: "Mrs. L., Ap. 1, 1882.
Male, stillborn; probably dead 10 days." "Oct. 31, 1884. Male
child ; died one hour after birth. "]
I will tell you about your mother and father next time.
Then followed predictio1l8 for two years and five years hence, which it is
unnecessary to print. Also a statement regarding a complaint and
a pain under the shoulder blade attributed to my wife, both with
fair correctne88, but the latter past rather than pi-esent.
I begin to feel weak. I must go. Myers! Myers! (and gradually Mrs.
Piper came to herself.)
OLIVER J. LoJ)OE.
Further Notu (m Sittillg No. 16, 10riffen May, 1890.
(1) I have had no letter from my brother in America. A letter
has come to another brother. (2) The boy mentioned as having trouble
in calf of leg may have had it latent, for he now complains of a. good
deal of pain in it and walks very little. It used to be in his heels, but
is now in his left calf. I need hardly say that this is not a case of
propter 'toe; he had not been told anything about it, and only in
editing the old notes do I perceive the coincidence.
Digitized by Google
470 A Record of Obsel'V((tion~ of
After an interval the Liverpool series of sittings began; the first
being No. 36 in the complete series. Among a good deal that is non-
evidential or rambling, there are some striking pieces of lucidity here,
and I judge it fairest not to curtail the report of the sitting, because
that would mean skimming off the cream too much. Mrs. Piper
an'h'ed at my house the evening of 'Vednesday before Christmas.
Next day at noon my wife and I sat with her. Being holiday time I
gave up the whole of my time to her and knew all her proceedings.
SiftillY No. 36. First of those at Liverpool. Thursda,y, December 19th,
121WOII.
Present : O. and M. Lodge. O. L. holding hands. ~1. L. sitting
at distance" quite quiet, ready to take notes.
Ha, I know you. Don't you see I know you 1 Where's Myers 1
" He is away."
Give my regards. 'Vhere do you come from 1
" \Vell, you know that, I expect."
Yes, I know you. You are the man going to have (the things predicted
before).
You've got the little fellow with something the matter with his leg. I
remember all about it, you see. 'Vho's that influence over there 1
" Can you tell me who it is 1"
(Feeling out in air with hand) That's-you know your lady I told you
of- -that'l! her-that's Marie..
"Yes, quite right."
I see her father and mother, too, and Uncle Joseph. Uncle Joe, that's
his nickname j and Gordon. Do you know Gordon 1
"No."
It's a friend of her father. Uncle William is connected with Mary, too.
[Her father's nickname was "Jack," not Joe. I cannot find that he had
a friend Gordon. A particular friend of his was Geo. Broughton.]
Here's Aunt Anne. That's your Aunt Anne. She is so pleased to be
able to speak to you. "Good land." [This was said in a voice strangely
like hers, but as if speaking with great difficulty.] Very happy and contented.
I am not dead, my son, I am living. I can see you j I see the struggles you
have been through. I have tried to help you often. Do you believe her 1
speak to her. [See also pp. 468, 514, 516, 536, &c.]
"Are you doing what you expected to be doing 1"
(Confused words, and then) Listening to the children, lookillg after them :
as I expected.
[No meaning in this. The answer to my question might have had a
meaning.]
You know me. You realise where I am and the more you--
There has been a change in your surroundings since--and I grow still
in spirit just as you grow in body.
Dr. P. : Marie, you come here j tell her to come here.
[My wife came and for some little time the notes were interrupted, till
I could get my right hand free, and then were imperfect. I put down
the substance from good memory as follows. Written same day.]
Oel,tain Phenomena of Trance. 471
You are not very well, not 80 well as you might be,but never mind, don't
worry, you'll get all right, and your boy will get all right. Don't you go
and be anxious, you let him alone. He'll come right. He's better now. I
told you before what was the matter, didn't I 1 He's in a looser condition,
not so tight. I told you what to do with him.
"Yes, we did it."
You were wise, he is better.
[The boy was away in Staffordshire, but this fact Dr. Phinuit did not
at present ~et hold of. Mrs. Piper knew it. She had not seen
him ; and did not see him.]
And that little female, too, is anright. [Evidently meaning our one girl.)
Mary, there are two Mary's. Mother and daughter. The mother is in
the body [correct]; two Mary's. You're like your mother and you're like
Violet. You're halfway between mother and Violet. [Violet is the name of
her daughter.] But you're your father's child.
M. L. : "Tell me about my father."
Yes, well, I will ; he thought a lot of you ; he was a good fellow ; he was
not in the body long enough, that's what's the matter with him-a good,
open, generous fellow. I can hardly hear him, he is so weak ; it's 80 long
ago. He says you have got 80mething of his, where is it 1 (feeling at her
throat); he says if you had this it would help him, and make him stronger.
He has great difficulty in coming back. It's a little ornament with his hair
in-a bit of hair in-a bit of child's hair-a little bit of his own hair too.
Bring it.
She went upstairs to fetch an old locket, with a hair ornament inside-
nobody's hair in psrticWar. [See note below.] While she was away
he went on to me:-
He passed out 80 long ago ; she was but a little thing-[she was a fort-
night old when he died]-that makes it 80 hard for him to realise her. It's
just as hard for them to speak to you as for you to speak to them. (Locket
brought and felt by Dr. P.) Yes, this will help him; now don't hurry me.
He'll come back soon stronger, and I'll get a long message from him.
(Here rough notes begin again.)
Uncle Robert: that's yours (to 0).
"Yes."
Ab, he's a good man, a fine sort of fellow. On your father's side.
Confound him, why is not he on your mother's side 1 She was 80 good. He's·
done " lot of good in his life, and would do more; but with Dick, Tom
and Harry against him what's the use nowadays 1 [Rather characteristic
sort of speech.] Aunt Anne knows him well.
Now, wait a bit. (to M.) Riley; no, that's not the name-Lumley-
Lindon. No, can't get it yet.
(To 0.) Then Henry; you know Henry 1
(To M.) George, J. G., a cousin; this is your wife's intluence. A cousin
passed away on the water. Cousin married, and the gentleman passed outat
sea, round the sea. Voice not distinct. I'll get the name directly-faint
whispering only.
This seems all a muddle. I sup.pose now that he was fishing for the
Dame that. comes next; but It was not fishing with our conscious
Digitized by Google
472 .A Record of Ob8el'Vat-i01l8 0/
help, for we did not gueas what he was after. When the name
Came, it came briskly and pat.
Alex-that's it. That's the infI.uence I've been telling you of and trying
to get. That's the influence of this locket. .Alex-ander; Alexander-
that's his name. This locket belonged to him, and he gave it your mother
and you got it from her.
[My wife's father's name was Alexander, and he was intimately called
Alex.]
" Yes, that's right."
He had an illness, and passed out with it. He had something wrong with
the heart. His voice is very weak ; he tries to speak and his breath comes
in gasps. He tried to speak to Mary, his wife, and stretched out his hand
to her, but couldn't reach her and fell and passed away. That's the 1ast
thing he remembers in this mortal body, and when he thinks of himself
back here he feels the pain back too. They had given him some liquid "
few hours before, which didn't agree with him very well. He remembers
that; it was the last thing he took.
NOTE.--The death of her father was as follows (related by her mother):
His health had been broken by tropical travel and yellow fever, and
his heart was weak, (for instance, his life could not be insured).
Shortly after marriage he went on what was intended to be a last
voyage, and returned only three months before his wife was confined.
Thirteen days after the confinement, which had been very severe,
and the strain of which had made him faint, he entered his wife's
room half dressed and holding a handkerchief to his mouth, which
was full of blood. He stretched out his hand to her, removed the
handkerchief, and tried to speak, but only gasped and fell on the
floor. Very soon he was dead.
Regarding the "liquid," I am unable to find any existing recollection,
but he was being attended by a doctor and was taking medicine at
the time.
As to the next episode, he had broken his leg by falling down the hold
of his ship once, and in certain states of the weather it used to pain
him. It was the right leg, and although my wife's impression was
that the locality speci6.ed was incorrect-that it really was above
the knee-on inquiry from her mother we find that the place
indicated below is perfectly right. [See also p. 493.]
He feels a pain in his right leg too, something had happened to it
(rubbing leg), something from a fall here (below the knee). It gave him
pain at times--had to prop it up. [See just above.]
This locket helps him to remember; you didn't have it at first, the other
Mary had it. (Gasping.) "Alex, love to Mary, his wife." He makes me feel
weak.
How that shakes up old memories and brings her near him again. Wait a
little (still grasping locket), he will be able to remember exact place where
he got this. (pause.)
There's a little one's hair connected with it ; he's not clear about the
hair. I don't want to seem inquisitive, but has it been put in since you
had it 1
" No, I think not."
Well, he's mixed on the hair, it's too confused to see. His wife's in the
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomerut of Trance. 473
body ; she was a good one. Trouble with teeth when he was with her-
trouble with teeth. [See note.]
Hullo, he's got funny butto1l8, big, brigbt. He wears these butto1l8 and
things on his shoulders, a sort of unifornl dress. He's gone back and
ohanged his dress since he was here before. A uniform. He has been a
commander, au officer, a leader; not military, but a commander; it was
through this that he got this locket and hair.
He used to go about a good deal, travel, he got this (locket) one of his
journeys. This was got from the North. He went to Scotland at one time.
NOTE.-The locket is one he got on one of his voyages, but no one
knows where, neitber does it matter. It is correct to say that it is
a locket containing hair, but it does not contain hair in the ordinary
sense ; it contai1l8 a little picture-a landscape-beautifully worked
in (presumably human) hair, hut nobody's ill particular. It looks
more like sepia than hair. The" trouble with teeth," which to me
sounded vague, turns out on inquiry to be definite, for their short
married life was a good deal disturbed by toothache ; he used to
go to the dentist with her and be much grieved by her pain. There
were several episodes about teeth, and once there was an adminis-
tration of chlorofornl which proved nearly fatal, so that she has
never had chloroform for anything since. (My wife's mother lives
in Staffordshire, and was in Staffordshire all the time of the sittings ;
knowing nothing about them at the time. My wife, however,
remembers having heard the toothache spoken of.) The episod~
about changing his clothes is sufficient.ly ludicrous; but he did have
" coat with brass buttons, and it led to the practically correct
perception of his. profession (captain in merchant service), and n.
little further on Phinuit suddenly brings out the word Cap'n in
connection with him, but, in a curious and half puzzled way, applies
it to me. It remained my Phinuit nickname to the end, though
quite inapplicable.
Your mother has got a good picture of him taken a long time ago, pretty
good, old-fashioned, but not so bad of him. Yes, pretty good. He looks
like that now. He looks younger than he did. That's particularly so.
LIt is an amateur painting done by someone on board his vessel.
Atrocious as a PIcture, but likeness caught. It is kept in a pillow-
case in a locked cuphoanl. No one in house had seen it except
wife and myself, and I had quite forgotten its existence, even after
it was mentioned.'
M.. : "Can you tell me about my other father 1"
Oh, he don't care for him; eb, Cap'n! A good man, honoured and
respected. but with wretched ideas. A man to the letter, cranky. But you
like him, he was good to you.
"Yes."
(My wife returned to her distance and notes here.)
Now, Captain, what can I do for you 1
"Tell me about this letter" (handing him a sealed one taken at random by
my wife from a packet of 12 sealed envelopes which I had arranged tile night
before. The contents of many I knew, and I knew something about all,
but I didn't now know which wall which. Phinuit put it to his head).
Well, I'll try, but I wish you had given it me before when I was stronger.
This letter has a gentleman's influence in it. Do you know about it 1
Digitized by Google
474 .A Record of Obsel'Vations of
" No."
You want to know for your own interest?
"Yes."
Haven't you read it
"I may have read it, but don't know it now."
Well, there is a spirit in it, and a gentlem,m in the body and a lady; it's
an engagement about a meeting, making inquiry, line of work; looks like
Myers'in1luence--can't see clearly now. Give it me next time, and don't
look at it between.
"All right." [I did not give it again. I looked at it afterwards.
Statement indefinite, not exactly wrong.]
Which of your uncles was it had a fall, all shaken up? Caused great
anxiety among these friends, and it ended in spirit leaving body? You don't
remcmber your mother much f
"Yes, I do."
Well, she passed out some time ago, 15 years.
" Not so long."
Very near 15 years, if you think; her spirit has advanced a good way.
[She died in 1879.]
" Has she a me8ll8ge 1"
Well, you see it's difficult. Not that she isn't near you; she is near you,
but when I come, a stranger, she won't tell me anything. [Rather charac-
teristic.] She pl\S8ed out before Aunt Anne. [Correct.] Who is Sarah .,
someone they call Sarah-an aunt by marriage. And Harriet. Miss White-
no, Mrs. White; she is connected with that lady's father. She sends her love.
[Mrs. White was his sister, and is dead. We know nothing about
" Sarah" or " Harriet."]
O. L. : "Tell me about Uncle William you mentioned last time" [pp.
466, 468, and 470].
He belongs to that lady and to her mother. He's her father, too.
Itl. : "Tell me about him."
Never 88W a spirit so happy and contented. He was depressed in life-
had the blues like old Harry, but he's quite contented now. It's a damn sight
better here. He had trouble here (prodding himself in lower part of stomach
and afterwards me over bladder). Trouble there, in bowels or something.
I feel pain all here. Had pain in head, right eye funny (touched right
eye). Pain down here, too (abdomen again), stoppage urine; had nn
operation, and after that it was worse, more infinmmation, and with it he
passed out. He wasn't happy in life. He had nausea and was misunder-
stood. He had ideas that he didn't express. It's damned hnrd lines on ft.
lllan to be misunderstood. (Getting weak and rambling, soon after went.)
[The stepfather to whom this reters used to have severe fits of
depression, more than ordinary blues. His right eye had a droop
in it. He had stone in bladder, great trouble with urine, and was
operated on towards the end by Sir Henry Thulllpson. He was a
very silent religious man. See ,,180 p. 504.J
At the next sitting Principal Rendall arrived quietly, and was
sE-creted by me in the study while Mrs. Piper was upstairs, I intending
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena of Trance. 475
to bring him out after the trance had come on. But on her coming
down for a sitting she surmised someone was present, so I introduced
him as :Mr. Roberts, and the sitting immediately began: Principal
Rendall sitting at 1h-st at a little distance from us. Here follow the
notes in full. It must be stated, with reference to the precise
description of my mother and my wife's stepfather, that Mrs. Piper
had seen photographs of both the night before.
Sitting No. 37. December 20th, 1889. 11.0-12.30.
Present: G. H. Rendall (introduced as Roberts), O. Lodge and
Jlflrs. Lodge. (Notes are verbatim, as compiled from double version
taken down by those present, and with hands disengaged. 'Vl"itten
up, with bracketed annotations, by Rendall.)
Lodge holding hands.
Hn! (feeling head) Good Lord! I know you. I have seen you before.
I was to talk with your mother; quite a stout lady, your mother; hair
parted in the middle, don't you know; dark eyes, hair down in the middle
(touching parting); an important-looking lady; very good-looking; very
fond of you; wants to send her love; glad to hear from you; wants to get to
you. [Correct, but see above.] Tell Charley--
o. L. : "You mean her son by that name 1..
Yes. Say that he has been a little bit unfortunate, but will come out
all right if he goes on trying. She sends that as a message, because she
could speak to you, but not to him. [Message intelligible.]
How's Mary '1 God bless her. Give her my love. Also to Robert ;
Uncle Robert, you know, that is the Robert. (Wait,ing a minute.)
Also Olive. I've forgotten that name. Yes, Oliver,O-L-I-V-E-R,
two Olivers, father and son; that makes two, and at the same time. It was
two years ago, before your mother . You were ill, you know.
o. L. : .. III with what 1 I don't remember."
Why, ill with measles.
[0. L. had a serious attack in 1872 or 1873. His father's name was
also Oliver.]
o. L. : "Oh yes, measles."
Are you quite well now 1 She wants to know.
o. L. : "Yes, quite well."
:N0 harm to your constitution 1 Nothing in your system?
o. L. : "No."
Well, three cheers for that. Then she spoke about you. Glad to hear
from you. Confound it, someone else. There's some other spirit
who is here. (Feeling about, but pacified by Mrs. L. 's hand, who was beckoned
to come near.) Do you know. . 1 Among them there's Thomson,
3n old gentleman (and he says) "Take good care of Ted"; who the
devil that is I don't know, someone in the body. Sends love to his SOIl, who
is not to take the journey; it will be bad for him if he does.
[0. L. wlderstood thiK to possibly refer to his neighbour TllOmpson, who
has a SOIl Ted, and thiK explanation was confirmed I:\ter. (Sitting
No. 45, p. 508.) Journey episode not.specially intelligible.]
476 A RecOl·d of Obsenations of
(Feeling about.) There'll n gentleman or lady here that has got an almt
hUr!!t out of the body, with water, don't you know. Dropsical something.
Aunt, mother, or sister. [Unintelligible.] There's someone el!:!e here. l\Iary,
are you here 1 Well, heaven hless you, then. Two father!! you had.
Fortunnte to have two fnthers. One father with ever such a lot of white
hair and beard. Beard-no moustachi08 (feeling round fa.ce)-beard down
the cheeks. [M. L. 's stepfather had specially notable white hair, whisker!!.
and bellI'd, as described; but see remark on p. 475.]
O. L. ; "MoustllchioK 1"
No, 110 moustachioH, like you and me.
O. L. ; "Have you got moustachios, doctor 1"
Yell, I have llloustachioll like tha.t (feeling O. L.'s moustache). Can't
you see 1
O. L.; "No."
Mary, dear, you are fortunate to have two fathers. Two of them,
William and Alec. Two father!! here. 'ViIIiam told me he used to lIuffer '"
good deal of pa.in ; that ill why he was so depressed in life. Glad to get rid
of ma.terial hody and take on spiritURl. Alec-he took a long voyage over
the water, and got that (locket) nt thnt time; he llad the pain. (Ruhbing
about right leg.) He found that on one of his voyages. There's a littlu
child's, and a lady'tj hair in it. Did you find out about your gO\'ernor
falling into the water? [The fltel'fnther and father are here correctly dis-
tinguished and named.]
" No."
What? not found out yet? Tllke thin!:.rs as you go along, 1111 I say ; anll
}lot too slow about it. You know Mr. Clifford 1
O. L. ; "Know Mr. Clifford 1 who 1"
He is in the body; father's in the spirit. He wants to send his love to
him. Says he knows him very well. [Thill was unintelligible.]
(Medium here felt ahout in air searchingly with disengaged left hand.)
There is another influence heru. What the devil are you doing? (Accepting'
invitation, G. H. R. here took hand relinquished by O. L.) Ha! Well, I
don't object to you. How are you just now 1
R. : "All right, doctor."
III your heart all right 1 (Medium here felt over chest, gradually bringing
hand lower towards Iltolllach.) Heart all sound, and stomach-stomach all
right-but it isn't quite, it'll a little gastric, eh 1 [Correct.] You'll live a
long time yet, you will. You've got a good deal to do. Kind of unfortunate
sort of chap. I see you with your book!:! and paper!!-lots of hookll round
you. A lot in your brain. You llo a deal of thinking 1 Don't he 1 You're
a kind of good fellow after aU. I don't object to you, do you, Captain ~
(sddre8lling O. L.)-a good sort of chap.
R.; "Have you ever met mo before 1"
No. I'ye never seen YOll before.
R. ; "llavo we any friends in common 1"
You be hanged l No! How shouM we 1
R. : "I thought I might have had friend!:! you had met 1"
"\\'ell, we have. Don't YOll be too much in a hurry. You wasu't bona
in a minute. ·Who'!! Nugiram? How do you pronounce it 1 Nugery 1
R. ; "I don't understand."
Certain Phen<Y1luma of Trance. ~77
You are a pretty good kind of fellow, after all. How's your brother1 1
know your brothers.
R. : " Yes; well, which one 1"
One, two, three, four-four brothers, that's all.
n. : "All besides me 1" [A leading question. As a fact, I have three
brothers living, and one deceased.]
Yes, four in all; with you, five altogether. [Correct.]
R. : "Any sisters 1"
(Medium appeared to take no notice of this interrogation, but continued.)
One, two, three, four--that's right, isn't it 1 Yes, yes, I know it-that
don't include you. There's four that's got to be told about. One is a.
mighty erratic sort of fellow. [Correct.] Can't keep easy. He wants to
see something of the world. He'll get on though-he'll make his way.
One of your brothers met with an accident a little while ago-he hurt hill
head. And one of his fingers-quite badly.
R. : "Is his head all right 1"
Yes, he's right.
R. : "Which finger was it he hurt 1"
It was his second finger.
(Medium here felt for and took hold of socond finger of disengaged left
hand.)
R. : "Which hand 1"
It was his right hand-here.
Medium took second finger of ri({ht hand, in place of left, and indicated
injury near top Joint, on Side (if I remember right) removed from
thumb. [Unverified, and not within my knowledge at present.
Brother out of reach, in America.]
R. : "How is itt "
Howl He's George. (See note.) I judge it is pretty sore yet. It WAS
hurt, but it's healing. Perhaps you don't believe that, but it's true.
R. : "I'll take your word for it."
He has a cough trouble-here, in throat. He's a roving disposition, but
he'll accomplish something; he'll get on. I see three children. He's gone
away. How's Alfred 1 Alfred.
R. : "Who is Alfred 1"
Alfred-that's connected with you. A--L-F-R-E-D. Alfred. A
brother Alfred.
R. : "My brother1 "
Don't you know him 1 not your brother. There's an uncle and a cousin
as well by that name. You gentlemen mUllt straighten it out. I've got
mixed. That's you, Cap'n. You've both got Alfreds. You have got Alfred, a
cousin. (CorrectofG. H. R.) He has a brother Alfred. (Correct ofO. J. L.)
O. L. : "That's all right, doctor."
A real good fellow you are. You write a good deal. You spsnd a lot of
time writing, and I soe your books. I see your desk, and books all round,
and all the apparatus. You are a clever man, somehow. There's another
brother, William. (Not true ofG. H.R.) Will. W-I-L-L. He'swith
me. He was young; he passed out young. He sonds his love to you.
That's not your William.
2 L
Digitized by Google
478 .A RecOl'd of Obsel'vations of
At this point, my right hand being engaged with medium's hand, I used
my left somewhat awkwardly to take out of my right-hand trouser
pocket a small locket I had brought. The locket contained minia-
ture head, faced by ring of hair, of a first [step] cousin, named
Agnes, who died of conaumption in 1869, and with whom from
ten to eighteen I had warm cousinly friendship. The intimacy was
familiar and unconstrained, but never romantic.
What are you fishing for there '1
R. : "It is a keepSl\ke I brought with me. I thought you might be able
to tell me about it. Shall I give it you 1"
Medium's disengaged hand was offered, and I placed in it the locket--
onyx front, with gold back. Throughout dialogue it remained in
medium's hand, who from time to time moved or felt it. The locket
had a three-letter monogram engraved on back. but in compli-
cated design, quite impossible, I should think, to decipher by finger
touch. It was certainly not read by eye, and the locket remained
closed from first to last.
That's an 01<1 friend-a lady named Alice connected with that. AI-lice.
Sounded AI-leese, with a pause, doubling the L rather constrninedly, but
spelt out A-L-I-C-E.
R. : "You have not got the name quite right. What had she to do with
me1"
You've had that a long time. And I want to sort it out. It is a lady
connected with this. (Two or three slight femiuine coughs were given.)
It is the cough she remembers-she passed out with a cough. She i
trying to tell me the name. An-nese-An-nese.
The name was said with effort at the n-n, and with French pronuncia-
tion, much like gagner, almost as English An1lese, and repeated
several times, as though trying to get sound correct.
R. : "Agnes. Can't you say Agnes? "
That is it. Anyese-Anyese. (Still, and throughout remainder of talk
keeping to the French gn articulation.) I cannot say it quite right. She
passed out with the cough. [Correct.] Is so surprised to hear of you-quite
difficult to recognise you. She used to own this [No], and it makes her
happy that you have it. She has brown hair. She asks, do you want to talk
to her 1 Agnes. Agnes. I couldn't say it right. She keeps bowing her
11ead. I can't pronounce the name. She's got greyish eyes, and brown hair.
[Correct.] She's pretty, looks very pretty. Then when she passed out she
lost her flesh-but she looks better now-looks more like the picture you ha"e
in here-rather fleshier. [It is from photo at somewhat rounder and more
girlish stage.] She thinks a great deal of you, she says. There was 0. book
when she was in the body cOllllected with you and her-a little book and
80me verses in it. [In June I remembered that I had her Roundell Palmer's
Book of Praise, as keepsake.] She's got a mother in the body. [Correct.]
Mirn [unknown] is round with her. And she has a flister in the body.
. {Correct.] That's her hair, in there. [Yes, hair in locket, faced by photo.]
R.: .. What about her sister 1"
What of her sisted Her sister's not been very well of late. She coughs
n little. It was after they went away from the place where they live. She
had some difficulty with her head.
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenomena of Trance. 479
lColTtlct 811 to ill-health, owing to which she was absent from home; but
the Mad unaffected.]
R.: "'Vh01"
The sister in the body-had trouble with her head. She married after
Agnes passed out. [COlTtlct.] She says Frank.
R. : "What about Frank 1 Who's Frank 1"
Frank's a brother [A. had no brother Frank]-or brother-in-law. She's
calling for him. Her father had rheumatism. [Fatherhad slight rheumatism,
but not anything serious or troublesome.] Aren't you very much interested
in her 1 She remembers her trouble, when she comes back. It W88 a great
mistake. I tell you one thing. They took a little trip for her health
[Correct. A. went to Cannes in consumption, and died there], and it did
her no good. She gradually failed. At the lMt it was a kind of hemor-
rhage-violent-that took her away. [Probably true. Her death WM quite
sudden at lMt. Parents, telegraphed for from Rome, arrived too late. Never
lleard details.]
R.: "Tell her I have a little memento of that trip-that her friends gave
me, and I have always kept."
[This WM for test, to see whether medium read my thoughts directly.
The VMe WM given me after A.'s death.]
She smiles-keeps smiling-pleasantly. Is it the book 1
R. : "No; it's not the book. Ask her if she knows or can guesa what it
is." [I do posaesa a.book, given as keepsake. This I only remembered when
reading proof of these notes after six months' interval: as said above.]
I'll Mk her. She seems to recognise this little thing (the locket). She
gave it you. [lncolTtlct-locket the gift of a relative after A.'s death.]
R.: .. What WM it 1 Say it WM an article, when she had gone away."
She doesn't know it. I can't tell you what it WM, unleBB it WM her
pencil. If I could read your head, I could tell you. I can't, and I have to
wait for her to tell me.
R. : "Ask her if she remembers having any little thing at table d'Mte,
when she WM away on the trip, at meals or on the tsble."
She is trying to think. She had so many things, ofcourse she had. No,
she can't seem to remember it. She is very much surprised to see you;
very happy at seeing you, but she feels confused.
R. : "It WM a little blue VMe, in which they uaed to put her flowers,
violets, &C. Does she remember it 1"
Now she is laughing. Well, she's very glad they gave you that; and
that you keep it. You see, although spirits know a great deal, they can't
see some things, don't know everything; they go on to different ideM.
From when she W88 a \'ery little girl, she knew you very well. You have
got some letters from her belonging to you. [True, I believe.]
R. : .. HM she any me888geB 1"
She sends her love to Lu.
[She had a friend, called Louie-I have not seen, and hardly heard of
her since death of A.]
R.: "Who is Lu1"
She had a great friend named Lu. She WM very fond of her. Can't
you give it to her 1
2 L 2
Digitized by Google
480 A Record of Ob8e)'Vations of
R. : "Who is Lu 1 in the body 1"
Oh, Lu hasn't passed out. She is in the body. She was very fond of
her. She wrote for her in her autograph book; she remembers that. " In
Friendship Memory ever-" Those were some of the words. " Friendship-
and Menlory ever " was part of the sentence of the autograph. [Not yet
verified.]
R.: "Say I think I know whom she means by Lu. Ask her to ~escribe
her."
She was tallish-& rather pretty girl. (Correct generaldescription.) She
doesn't look quite as she used to now. She is a little faded like, and altered.
But she's quite well.
R. : "Is she married 1"
Yes, she's married.
R.: "Then what is her name 1 I haven't seen her for years, and I can't;
send me8B8ge unless I know her name, hor husband's name."
She speaks in a hoarse whisper. I will try and hear--Qn't well catch it.
B. it begins; Charles--Charles is her husband.
R. : "What surname 1"
&rran, Berrat, Barrat, Behrend, Mehrend.
[Husband's true surname I discover to he Daniel. Christian name not;
yet found out (he being in S. America).]
R. : "I can't hear clearly-~ you spell it 1"
Burran it sounds. B-U-R-R-A-N-Burran.
R.: " Very good. I'll find her out if I can."
There's a young fellow here, named George Henry Smith. [Not within
my memory.l He has brothers, Fred and Henry. He used to go to school
with you. He had red hair. The boys used to make fun of him, and so
did you too. He didn't like you. And there's a spirit Stevenson.
R. : "What Stevenson 1"
Stevenson-he's a good fellow-he's first-class__mart too-he's a good
fellow. He never got into trouble-not from his own fault.
R. : "Describe him."
He's a little fuller in the face than you are. Eyes are blue-bluish tint
-with a high forehead. I don't see him very clearly. He's a good fellow
-& friend of yours. Still in the body.
L
Unknown to me. The only Stevenson I know does not correspond at;
all. Neither do I recall a G. H. Smith.]
Well, you keep on with your writing. And there's a jouruey for you; you
keep on with it. Youll have a jolly good time. You'll never regret going.
And you'll go to another country. It's a funny world, and you knock about
a good deal. He covers a good deal of ground, don't he 1 He gets it up.
and tells us all. He lectures a bit, eh 1
I'm going to have a talk with Agnes, and find out things. You bring this
(i e., the locket, which was at this point returned) to me again.
\\,110 am 11 I'm Dr. P.-the spirits don't know me. I have to seek
about, if I am to find the spirits. I've got to find the spirits and then
I'll tell you all about it. You missed her when she went away, didn't you 'I
She's bappy, thanks you, &C. Had you the friend who was sent to the
hOBpital-whopaBBed out with small.pox long ago?
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenomena of Trance. 481
R.: "I know nothing about it."
Who is this fwmy aunt of yours 1 She's kind of lame. Do you like her'
It is a kind of fwmy thing. She's got something the matter with her foot.
She spmined it one time. It was a little lower down. She turned herankle,
not so very long ago, it was stepping down. It is that foot, there.
During this talk medium, who first touched leg above knee, gradually
pa8IIed hand down shin to the left ankle, and there let hand relit
awhile, pre88ing and slightly massaging under-ankle at exact place
where a somewhat severe spmin of seven months' standing still
made ita etrects felt.
R. : "What aunt 1 How came the accident' I have seveml aWlta."
She comes on your mother's side. It aches still. It's your aunt's foot.
It was done a little while back. She stepped down out of carriage. It was
the fteshy one; if you don't know, you go and find out. Why the de\"il don't
'you' I like to tell these people what they don't know. She hurt her
.ankle. It's quite well now, only a little troublesome at times. [The aunt in
question had no accident or spmin.]
I see Agnes. She's bowing. I'll tell you lots of things next time. You've
got that picture of hers, you keep it. It's a good one. She looks a little
tired, that's all. Her father used to have rheumatism. What about that
aister 1
In the evening of same day Mr. Rendall came again, and there was also
present Mr. Gonner, introduced as Mr. McCwm, but I accidentally used hill
right nanle once in Mrs. Piper's presence, though she did not seem to attend.
It was a mistake thus to crowd people in and led to some confusion, but it
was with an inexperienced idea of economising time that I did it; I wanted
Mr. Gonner to have a good sitting the following morning, when he had
.armnged for an experiment.
Sitting No. 38. December 20th, 1889. 5.10-6.30 p.fll.
Present: O. J. Lodge, Mrs. Lodge, E. C. Gonner, G. H. Rendall.
First portion compiled from verbatim notes taken down by O. J. L.
and E. C. G. Notes written out and annotated by ~ndall.
(Rendall holding medium's right hand.)
I know you. I've seen you before. I remember. I never met you in
the body, but I met you about a week ago.
[Sole meeting occurred on morning of same day at earlier seance.]
R. : "Do you remember what we were talking about' "
I saw another before-a big, tall man, bald head, high forehead, good-
hearted sort of fellow. Your mother's in the spirit. I saw him first, then
you. He's a friend of mine-a good fellow. I see him now. Ah I there
he is. You're the gentleman. Come here and be polite and say, How do
you do'
[Description true of O. J. L., who was present also at morning se&llce.
Both his and my mother are dead.] .
(0. J. L. shook hands with medium.)
What's that' Give me that.
R. : "The little thing I showed you before 1"
Digitized by Google
482. A Record of Observatio'ns of
Yes, give it me. That's what I wanted.
(Here R. handed to medium the locket on which conversation turned in
the morning.)
~ow I remember. I was hunting for this. I have found out a good
deal about her and about you.
R. : "Have you seen her since 1"
Yes, I have seen her. Her friend was Lulu-her husband's name was
Charles Bumet.
(Name this time quite distinct, and different from moming.)
Who's that man over there 1 (Meaning E. C. G., who was present for
first time.) He's not very well. He has pain at the back of the head;
neuralgia, cold. He slept in too much damp. [Not specially applicable.]
Dr. P. here became annoyed at presence of others-impatient at sound
of writing, &c. Gonner went out, but that was not enough; he wished
all to leave, having private communications to make. At beginning of
8l1&nce, Mrs. P. had expre88ly asked Mrs. Lodge to remain in room if she
could spare the time, and WIUI not too much tired, preferring the presence of
some lady.
I want those other people out of the room! Let them go out. Send
them all away, &c.
All retired, Dr. P. saying I might call for them again when he had done
with me. During absence he was somewhat more free and voluble than at
other times, but in main volubility WIUI of conventional type, with gene-
ralities of affectionate messages, &c. I several times asked to re-admit.
others, but he generally demurred or put question by or took no notice.
Finally I said I really must call my friends in, for they wouldn't like miss-
ing so much of his company. And he said, .. Very well, call them if YOll
will."
The following notes are from memory, written down on same evening.
Of their general correctne88 I am quite certain, and I hal'e introduced
nothing that did not occur. Exact trordl, or exact order, of conversation I
cannot guarantee.
R. : .. Well, doctor, they have gone now; what hal'e you to say 1"
I've a message, but I didn't like to say it all before a lot of people. A.
is looking very pleased, and says she is so glad to hear from you. She's
particularly glad about that little blue vase.
(A good deal of this kind of thing.)
R.: "There isn't very much in all that-wlUl there nothing particular to
say, if we were to be alone 1"
Yes. A. would like to say she thinks a great deal of you~he always.
did-only she doesn't like to say that before other people. Spirits are just
like you people in the body. She's modest and retiring. That's in
character, isn't it, eh 1 She always was-she was always fond of you-only.
of course, she couldn't say so then, any more than now before other people.
R. : "Ask her whether she remembers our last meeting, when or where
it was."
Yes, it WIUI before she went on the joumey-[True. I believe I saw her
last at Harrow, where I lived, and where I was then a boy in the school.}
Digitized by Google
Oei'tain Phenomena of Tmnce. 483
-before the cough came, and she went abroad. She was right then. Don't
you remember the flushes on her cheek 1 little flying flushes, hectic like.
R. : "Well, yes-that may be all right. Can she remember any other
incident or meeting 1"
Yes, it was a concert. [Quite p088ible-but I do not remember. The
terminal school concert was quite an event in school life, to which any friends
staying with us went. But I have no special remembrance. That her
sister was there also is not very likely, and the next words seemed to me
inconsequent.] You went with her to the concert-at a school. Lots of
people there, singing and so on.
R. : "I don't remember it. What school 1 ask."
She can't say what school. It was her sister's. Her sister was there.
Singing.
R. : "Who was singing 1"
Her sister's it was. She was there too.
Doctor talked-I think at this point-abeut a brother WiU, of whom I
(G. H. R.) said I knew nothin~. Also talked of walking together
under trees on a Thuradsy evemng. (I remember one wood walk.
but it was a Sundsy, after church. None other in particular. This
walk was in my mind.)
She says Charlie, Charlie.
R. : "What Charlie-who was he 1"
Brother Charlie.
R.: "\Vhose brother 1"
Why, her brother Charlie, of course. Charlie and Eric.
About this name I could not be absolutely certain, but it sounded
unmistakable. Her sister (subsequently to A.'s death) married a
Charlie, and the eldest son is named Eric.
"Charlie and Eric, did you say 1"
Yes, of course, Charlie and Eric. She says Charlie is ill-he's been away
from home. [This C. had been away from home, but for wife's health
rather than his own.] Something wrong here, you know (feeling low in
throat), in the throat, but it'll be all right. It's nothing much.
She sends love to her mother. She's in the body. Tell her she's quite
happy. She'll be glad to hear that-quite happy. They've a picture of her;
there are flowers about it sometimes. Do you know that 1
R.: "No."
Well, they have. You see, they'll show it you, and just you ask them.
Fancy you not knowing that !
R. : "Does A. knOll' about me, what happens to me, what I am doing 1"
She thinks of you very often.
R. : "Does she know where I live 1"
No, it's a town where she has never been. [Correct.]
R.: "Can she see things about me '/ Does she know whetherI am married 1"
[To this question I got no answer. The doctor went oft' on his own
lincs.J .
Fred! Fred! She keeps saying Fred ! Fred: nothing but Frell.
R. : "Who's Fred 1" .
I don't know; how should I 1
R.: "}t~red what 1"
Digitized by Google
484 .A RecO'1'd of ObservationB of
Why, Fred Graves. (So 1 heard name.) It's always Fred.
R. : "I never heard of such a person. Ask who Fred Graves is."
Why, Fred's your erratic brother [correct, and his customary name; in
moming called by his never used name, George]-the roving one. Your
brother Fred, you know.
R.: ',Yes, well ; my brother Fred 1 What of him 1 has she any mesaage 1
1 could send one."
No, she sends him good wishes. But she didn't know him much-
wasn't familiar with him, don't you' know; not when she was in body.
[Correct.]
R. : "Does she remember my other brothers 1"
Yes, Arthur. A-R-T-H-U-R. Arthur, she knew him best [correct]
-sends her love. There were four of you ; she sends love to all.
R.: "What were their names 1 I'll give the message."
Charlie.
R.: "My brother, do you mean 1"
Yes, Charlie. Charlie, Fred, Arthur.
R. : "Who was the fourth 1 Tell me the name."
(A pause and effort--doctor went to ask. Then) Hem (sald with effort).
R.: "Hem 1 That's not right."
Henny.
R. : "Did you say Henry 1..
(Doctor returned to obseure Hem, and Em. Then) It begins with H.
R. : "That's not right. 1 can't take the message whellshe can'tremember
the name. Try again."
Ern-Erny-Arnold-A-R-N-O-L-D.
(0. J. L., E. C. G., and Mrs. L. here re-entered. 1 said A. had been
sonding me~es to my brothers, but could not get the name of
one of them nght. From this point verbatim notes from O. J. L.
and E. C. G. are resumed.)
Medium (suddenly): Ernest-that's the youngest. E-R-N--E-S-T
-Ernest. [Correct.]
Arthur and Ernest, and Charlie and Fred. [Correct, and full list of
brothers, not in order of age.] She remembers more than you do. What
do you think she says to me 1 She says, don't swear, doctor; she did, sure
as you live. Who is it they call Bob 1 Robert. That belongs to you,
Captain. (Said to O. J. L.)
R. : .. Does she Dleet any of my relatives 1"
She's very dear to you. They've got some pencil drawings of hers
at home. [I am told that this is 80. ] You go and see her mother-imd see
them. Go at once. 1'heyare little drawings, and see her picture too. You
go away.
Here Gonner took medium's hand, and notes were taken by O. J. L.
and G. H. R.
(To G. H. R.) I have not told you all. There is a good deal to say yet.
(Mr. Gonner took hands.)
Hn I Where do you come from 1 Hn! You're another good fellow, too
1 say, he is a good fellow, Captain. .
G. : "Can you tell me anything of my relatives or friends 1"
What relatives 1
Digitized by Google
Outain Pherunnena of Tmnce. 485
G. : "Oh, my father, mother, anyone."
Yes, about your father and mother, brothers and sisters, uncles and
aunts, anything you like. I have seen your mother. No, it is the other
fellow's mother. She was the one that told me about Fred's finger, about
it being hurt. There's a little child around with her-that's passed outi of
the body. [Correct of G. H. R., whose mother died from general debility
ensuing on confinement. The child-a daughter-lived only a few hours.]
Florence, who is Florence 1 Florence got the headache, dark eyes and
dark hair. Lying down at present. Got artistic taste, don't you know;
paints, paints all round her, you know, blackboard, brushes and things on
the table.
G. : "Who is Florence 1"
Why she has a friend, Miss Whiteman, if you must know. Do you
know now who I mean 1
G.: "No, not in the least."
Well, then, say so, can't you1 Florence's friend IIhe was. She had
trouble with the head; lying down. [See Sitting No. 40, and p. 494.]
Rendall here at medium's solicitation again took hands. Notes from
O. J. L. and E. C. G.
Don't you remember the evening at the concert 1 whim you went to hear
the singing 1 She remembers it. She used to have a green hat, with green
ribbon-and a little feather on it-little bits on there (touching top of
G. H. R.'s head). They've got that hat at home now. [Not yet verified.]
Harriet. There's Harriet 1 Who the devil is Harriet 1 Do you
remember Harriet1 She wants you to go and see her.
A Miss Harriet R. (always in the family called Miss Harriet) was one
of two sisters who brought up A., while her parents were in
India. She accompanied her to Cannes, and nursed her in last
illness and death. Miss H. R. died in 1889.
R. : "Ah! How is Harriet 1"
She's in the body. She's quite well for her. Go and see her for Heaven's
sake. But there's another lady there, too, who would like to speak with
you, but she cannot. She's in spirit-passed ont, from some difficulty with
her heart. It's your mother. It was bad condition of heart and stomach.
She has light hair-blue eyes-straight. Very clear complexion and pretty
mouth. Very pleasant looking lady. I can't get to talk with her. (Pause.)
It's a friend of your father who had the small-pox, and he passed out. He
was thrown overboard. His name was Arthur. [To this I can get no
clue.] Oh! Lord! there's a pain in the ankle-it was stepping out of the
earriage. It hurts me.
Medium here felt down leg to my sprained ankle, took it up on chair,
and massaged it for awhile at injured place.
R.: "Do you know Charlie 1"
He had trouble here-had an abscess-it was there (feeling at neck, near
glands) in the neck, and something the matter with the head: He got feyer,
and his head was wrong. There was a place on the neck.
This brother died after prolonged epilepsy, conjecturally originating
with scarlet fever. Before his death he did, from time to time,
su1Fer from boils at back of neck, but I learn there was neither
abscess nor boil at place indicated.
Digitized by Google
486
R. : "Tell me about Charlie."
That i!ol n brother I am talking about-he passed out of the body with a
fever. There was a place on the side of the neck.
R. : "Can you speak with C. 1"
Isn't that so 1
R. : "\Vell, has he any message 1"
He sends his loye to you all. Love to Arthur. That's all I hear.
(At this point became disconnected.)
[The following deserves to be added. as it alone gives surname. Mr.
Rendall's name was never used in Mrs. P. 's presence. He was introduced
as Mr. Roberts.]
Extractfrom Stmday sitti-ng with O. J. L., December 22nd, 1889.
Hullo. here's a spirit, Charlie Randall-R-A--N-D-A-L-L-
wants to send love to all his folks, and says very happy. Can you sort that
out 1
" Whom does he belong to 1"
I don't know. I'll ask him. He belongs to George, Fred, Arthur, (grunt.
indistinguishable) [Ern, I presume.-G. H. R.], Agnes' gentleman, that one·
that was here, you k~ow.
" Yel!, all right. I'll send message."
NOTEl! BY G. H. R.
Regarding the two seances, I was quite convinced of the genuineness of
the phenomena. There appeared to me no opening for preconcerted fraud,
and an impostor could gain little or nothing either by feigning trance state
or adopting such an unnatural impersonation as an Americanised Frenchman.
with familiarly slangy manner.
The knowledge communicated by medium appeared to me to extend
beyond the possibility of chance coincidence. The names of all my four
brothers were giyen correctly, and also death of my mother, eldest brother,
and (vaguely) death of infant sister.
Any previous getting up of the case seems to me impossible. I never
thought of the locket till preceding night, and have not worn it for yea1"l'.
The lady was a relative by marriage, who died nearly 20 years back, and
whose existence or family was to the best of my belief unknown to anyone
in Liverpool.
Compured with the correct statements, the inaccuracies were slight; few
names were given wrong (two or three only), but several names or .. spirits "
were introduced to whom I had no clue. There certainly seemed confusion
of personalities and relationships, both of the spirits and of those present, as
though the communicant (doctor) had muddled up people. One curious
freak of confusion was the association (recurring morning and evening) of
my sprained ankle with the personality of my maternal aunt, who, on
writing, I found had had no sprain or accident.
Some of the easiest questions (on any fraud supposition) were 1l1lanSwered.
e.g., "Did A. know whether I was married 1" And there were obvious
inaccuracieA, Auch as "I met you a week ago," relating to IlloMling
interview.
As for thought-transference, I could not trace conscious action of my
own mind on the medium. Things were said constantly that I did not
Certa'in Phenomena of Tl'Clnce. 481
expect, and that were not in my mind; other things strongly present to
my mind were (1) quite outside medium's knowledge, or (2) confusedly
gUeB8ed at, or (3) referred to in quite unexpected terms or connectionB-
e.g., my brother W88 correctly called George; but he would never have come
into my head by that name, by which (though hiB first name in order) he has
never been known or called. At the same time, statements lying outside
my own knowledge, in the most crucial C8868, furnishing the most direct
criteria (e.y., proper names unknown to me), proved incorrect upon
verification.
I have no theory. The account of phenomena given by the entranced
medium, viz., confU8ed communicationB with other intelligences of persona
dead or living (but particularly dead), is not out of accord with the facts ;
but nothing occurred to convince me that this was the only admi88ible
explanation.
G. H. RENDALL.
In the next sitting, when !Ir. Gonner only was present with me,
there is a great deal that is incoherent and confused. Some ofit appears
explicable by supposing that the family of Mr. Gonner's mother are
being mentioned, instead of his own. But this is obviously a too elastic
hypothesis to be worth strictly examining or annotating on. The notes
might be abbreyia,ted with advantage were it not that there are a few
important incidents which it is probably better to give in their full
setting.
Sitti-ng No. 39. Sutltrday 11Wl'1Iill!/, December 21st, 1889, beyimting at 11
o'clvck a·.m.
Present: E. C. K. Gonner and O. L. only.
(0. L. sat with Mrs. P. but changed over to Gonner while she W88 going
oft', so that Dr. P. found Gonner there.)
Ah, I know you. I've seen you with another gentleman. Where's the
book 1
Referring to a book given to E. C. K. G. by mother, and in hands of
the medium on previoU8 occasion•
.. Here it iB. Do you remember what you said about it 1"
Oh yes, I'm not a damned fool. It's your mother's influence. Mother~
brother, and sister with me. Sister named Mary. [Wrong.] There's a good
deal for you to do next year-new sphere, new line-indefinite to me, quite
1\ distance ahead. Something for you to interest yourself in other people.
You've got 1\ lady in the body. Annie [Right. Note E.], talking to me.
Sister and mother both together. [True.] Someone calling for ed-head;
what's matter with head 1 Something ed in the body; kind of anxious about
him, anxious about the ed. Ed, not Fred, it's ed.
.. Anything else 1 Edward 1"
Edward, that's it. The lady's influence is in body; the mother's is in
spirit. But there's a difficulty of a lady at a distance.
.. Lady at distance 1"
Eight of them. Lady at distance, quite ill, too bad. She has a trcuble
Digitized by Google
488 .A Record oj ObservatUm8 oj
in stomach through heart, a little cough, weak state of blood. It's an aunt
who is not well.
" Which aunt t "
The only aunt that's ill at a distance. [All this unintelligible.]
""'''hat's her name t"
How can she tell me when she's in tho body t Eight of you. Eight
in all. Six in all there has been, and father and mother make eight.
{Note F.]
About here the sitter indicated dissent, and Dr. P. said: "Well, I believe
I'm mixing you up with the other fellow who sat with you. Captain,
don't mix two fellows up again. Can't sort them out properly.
Mraid I can't get much of you, but I would like to. I get the
book though,"
Four in body and in spirit two. One passed out very little. Two
children passed out. There were two, didn't you know that 1 One before it
hardly lived, and another very, very small. Four in body-no, five in body.
Mother, father, yourself, three sisters, one brother, and yourself, three
brothers and two sisters. [All wrong as applied to E. C. G. See Note F.]
How's Annie t A little nervous she is.
"Why t"
She's good right to be. Condition makes her so. She's writing at this
minute. (11.25. Wrong.)
Your mother is very near me; she's the one got trouble in head.
O. L. : "Tell him about his mother and what she's doing now. It's very
important." [See comments at end of sitting, Note A.]
Ha, ha! I'll tell you why it's important, because he don't know it
himself. I read your thoughts then. I can't generally. Your mother is
just this minute fixing her hair, putting a thing through her hair (indicating)
and putting it through her hair in a room with a cot in it, up high. Did you
know she had some trouble with her head 7 [Note A.]
"No."
Long distance between you and your mother, separation between you.
She's in another place. [Yes, in London.] And who's Willism t
" Well, who is he t"
I think that's a brother.
" My brother t "
No, her brother William. That's an uncle. [Correct, Note B.] Then
I get- She's fixing something to her throat and putting on a wrap here,
round here, and now she has lifted up the lid of a box on a stand.
'(11.30.) [Note A.] She's pretty well, but had little trouble with head and
stomach just a few hours ago, a little pain and indigestion; she has taken
hot drink for it. Within a day or two she hesrd of the death of a friend.
I see an outside place, high-high hills, you know, high kind of mountainous
place, an outlook-a very pretty outlook-a relation of hers is there; it
looks like Australis. It's a gentleman that's there, a relation of your mother.
Never mind him. I'll go back to your mother. [Note C.]
There's been some news, some correspondence reached the large building
where your mother is. She has had a cold. A young lady is with her, and
I should think it's her daughter; a very nice girl. She draws somewhat, and
needlework and reads a great deal. There's a pretty girl with light hair
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena of Trance. 48!)
and bluish eyes. She's speaking to your mother at this minute. [This is all
practically correct, except the relationship.]
" Is her hair long or short'" [See Note E.]
How' do you mean' It's fuzzy light hair. She's a little pale, sort of
smiling; nice teeth. Your mother is going out. [Note A.] Your mother
had trouble in leg, kind of rheumatic. There's a young lady, not Annie,
with light hair, light complexion, good influence. [This is the daughter.}
There are five of them altogether-a mother, two sisters, and two brothers.
" I think not."
Well, they are either sisters or sisters-in-law. If you've got no brother
nuuried, and if you've got no lady, I can get your sister all right-otherwise
I get them mixed. Your lady has got three sisters [she has five], four of
them in all; that's all there is that I can get. Her sisters are your sisters in
away.
" Can you get my father' "
Your father's not with you. He's coming 8OOn. I see him coming. At
first I'm afraid I got you mixed with that other gentleman. Can't do two
people at once. Whose little boy's that 1 Yours' It's one of yours. I
think it belongs to Mira.. Here's a spirit named Charles. Speak to him•
•-Well, Charles, are you coming to see us in town 1"
He's bowing his head. Uncle Charles, he's in the spirit. Yes, he is•.
That's two people. He's connected with William. He's the mother's
brother. Two brothers. That's right. There's one named Henry in
Australia. J. H. [Note C.] Is that yours, Captain 1
O. L.: "Don't think 80; p088ibly."
" Can you get my father '"
Your father's in spirit. He can come, but we must wait for hinl. He
scarcely knows you're here yet.
Who's Emma 1 Your father is calling Emily. Do you know Eliza-
Elizza--Lizzie? She is in the body. Name Lizabeth. It's her influence I
get through the book. They call her Lizzie-L-I-ZEE-ZEE-I-E.
Your father 88YS 80. [See Note D.]
He's here now. (Speaking in whisper.) "Take God's ble88ing to Lizzie.
Fa.ithful always. Truest and most kind heart and most spiritual mother
there could have been."
He's quite surprised to see youagain. You're changed-grown-changed
a great deal. You remember him, don't you 1
"Yes."
'VeIl, he remembers you, but you've changed. You had an illne88 a little
while ago, about 10 years ago. It was universally known by your spirit
friends, and since that you look dift"erent. It was a very disturbing illne88-
a fever. [See notes.] He had 80me trouble with his heart and stomach
and bowela. When he sent that message to your mother he whispered it
to her.
-.- Has she a daughter 1"
Yes, got a daughter in the body-named after her-but she's got another
name, too. [Note D.] Your father put up his fingers to 88y two. He has a
high forehead and a beard. I must talk to him again.
John Gordon-Oonder-Gorman-Gonner. [Christian name wrong.]
Digitized by Google
490 A. Recmvl of Observatiom of
"Who's that 1"
This gentleman talking to me. "Elizabeth Gonner, Lizzie, that's right.
Father, God bIeRS them." [See Notes and Note D.]
(Desultory remarks, and then suddenly): William was good. He doesn't
know you, but a good fellow. One passed out \vith an accident. That was
Willism. He was ill a long time. It was through his head; he's holding
his head here; it's like a shot, but it isn't a shot, it's a hit there on his head.
He doesn't feel it now, of course, but when he comes back here he
remembers it. I can't get him closer. [Note B.] They all like your mother
80 much. You ought to think a lot of her.
"I do."
Well, if you don't you ought to be scarified. I'll have to talk to your
father and find out more about you all. Your sister's talking to your lady.
[Very likely, as by this time the drive [Note A] would be just ovel·.]
" Do you see cousin Harold in the spirit? "
Ah! that I took to be your brother. He's got a lot of books about
him, coughs a little bit. The two little ones were your brothers, not him.
"I don't know them." [Note F.]
True, you don't know. They hardly existed. But don't forget, one's
your own brother, and one by an aunt. They went together, and they soom
like brothers. I'll tell you. Did you know your father had rheumatism 1
Well, he had, all over him, and trouble with bowels and kidneys, and passed
out with trouble here (abdomen); that illneRS took him out. [Not incorrect.]
Stomach and head, and there was another trouble with William through
head-an accident.
Don't have two people again, Captain. I got confused with you at first.
Two people are too much. Ask me anything you like.
,. Can you tell me what this letter is 1"
It's a general letter about an engagement. Going some,,·here to keep an
engagement. It's heen with you some time. Can't see name. I'll see you
again. Your mother didn't want to go, but they wanted her to go, and she
made up her mind she would. So she went. [Note A.] Captain--
(And Mrs. Piper came round.)
Notes taken alld written out by O. J. L. soon after.
E..:tlYlct from Sitti·ng (No. 40) by O.L., at 7 p.m. on Satllrdayevening,
Decembu 21st, 1889. Liverpool.
Dr. Phinuit said :-
That gentleman I saw last, I've seen his father since I went away. His
name's Thomas, Thomas Gonner. There are two Thomases. Both Thomas.
[Wrong: see Notes.] His mother just as I left was brushing something,
and had a little thing looking at it. She had a frame, a little picture, looking
at it. She took it up and looked steadily at it and then brushing something.
That's how I left her. When I saw her first she was fixing her hair, and
had something on the top of it, and was fixing something round her throat,
and she took up a pencil and wrote something. But just as I left she was
looking at a picture and brushing something. L
Note A.]
(That's all he said on this subject this evening.)
Written at 10 p.m. same evening and posted same night to E. C. K.
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena of Trance. 491
Gonner, 12, Marlborough-place, St. John's Wood, L'lndon. Posted
before any hearing from Gonner of the result of the morning sitting
which he had same day at from 11 to 12 noon; morning sitting ending
about 12.15, I should think, possibly at 12. Incidents mentioned at
1l.30 had the time noticed; they ran from 11.25 to 11.32, Greenwich
time.
OLIVER J. LoDGE.
NoTE.~ ON A.BOVE SrrrING. No. 39.
With reference to this interview there are several points deserving
attention. Some of these are of sufficient importance to be trested of
separately, but a few remarks of a more general character may precede any
such attempts at detail.
That Mrs. Piper WI\S acquainted with my history and circumstances is
highly improbable; not only was she unaware before she came to Liver-
pool that I should sit to her, but I waS introduced to her under the name of a
colleague and not in my own. Any theory as to previous investigation
falls necessarily to the ground, for eyen had she been able to discover the
antecedents of Professor Lodge's colleagues, she would in consequence of
this safeguard have been led to attribute my relations and circumstances to
another, his to me. As will, however, be seen, in the course of the inter-
view she uttered my name "Gonner" (p. 489).
Though in many instances she gave curious details of events or persons,
these were produced with great difficulty and generally surrounded with much
that was inaccurate and confused. At times, too, she was uncertain, and
seemed hardly able to attain to accuracy in her information. She was uncer-
tain as to the number of my brothers and sisters (p. 488), wrong both in her
remark to me (p. 489), and afterwards to Professor Lodge (p. 490) as to my
father's Christian name. In consequence her power, genuine though it may
appear to be, seems imperfect, and in consequence her information is
inaccurate.
This, however, must, I think, have a very considerable bearing on the plain
theory of thought-transference. Let us grant that I was aware of the death
and attendant circumstances of the death of my "uncle William," yet at the
time I was unconscious of them; unaware, indeed, at the moment as to whom
she \vas referring when she mentioned William for the first time (p. 488).
But when she was speaking of my father and searching after his name, I was
keenly conscious that it was Peter and not John. Again when (p. 489) she
stated that my father was present but did not know me-that I had been
changed by an illness and consequently hardly recognisable by my spirit
friends-I thought distinctly enough that my illness was some eight years
back, my father's death but two and a-half.
Did she then give any accurate information which could not be accounted
for by thought-transference 1 She told me (p. 488) that within a day or two
my mother heard of the death of a friend. If she referred to the days pre-
ceding the interview she was wrong, if following, right, since a very old
friend of my mother's died that very (Saturday) morning. But this question
.concerns a point which will be touched on in one of the notes.
NOTE A.-In preparation for the interview I had written and asked my
Digitized by Google
492 .A Record of Observat·i0n8 of
sister (Ellen Elizabeth Gonner) to persuade my mother to do something that;
was unusual for her between the hours of 11 and 12 Saturday moming; and
to observe what she did. My mother was not to know, and did not know,
that she was doing this at my request. Saturday moming, at a few minutes
before 11, she prepared herself for going out to take" drive in a hansom cab,
this striking her as an unusual procedure, as it was raining. Such preparation
involved touching the head in tho putting on of her bonnet, of her neck and
shoulders when she put on her cloak (p. 488). Then she was specially observed
to take her muft' box from her wardrobe, to place it on a table, lift the lid,
and take her muft' out (p. 488). On her dressing-table there stands a small
photograph of my father, which she very frequently takes up and looks at;
intently (p. 490). Whether she did this on the occasion in question cannot;
be ascertained, as it is one of those ordinary actions the performance of which
makes no impression. She cannot, however, be said to have been suft'ering
from her head. There is a wooden half-tester in her room, which might;
conceiVRbly be called a "cot." [See also notes at end of this series, p. 529.]
There is here a general correspondence between her actions at three or
four minutes to 11, and those attributed to her by the medium at 11.25-
11.30. But the seance was beginning at 11, and the medium began at once
with my mother. It is then an interesting matter to examine whether she
was trying to discover what my mother was engaged upon at the moment or
to recall her actions as she last perceived them.
NOTE B.-The instant reference to William (p. 488) in connection with my
mother seems to indicate a connection between the medium and my mother,
rather than a connection between the medium and myself. My uncle,
William Carter, was killed in an election riot in Yorkshire, near Wakefield,
1837, by a stone which struck him on the head (p.490). The news of his
death was a terrible shock to my mother, who was then at school in
Germany.
I think that the reference "" long time" means that he was ill and died
a long time. back; so at least did I understand it at the sitting.
NOTE C.-No brother of my mother's died in Australia (p. 488).
About the name of the place the medium seemed uncertain (p. 488). One of
my uncles died in India of cholera. His name, however, was not Henry
though his initials were J. H. (John Halliley Carter) (p. 489). I did not know
the existence of his second name.
NOTB D.-My mother's name is Elizabeth (pp. 489-90). She was inVRri-
ably called Lizzie by my father. My sister's name is Ellen Ellizabetb
Gonner (p. 489).
NOTE E.-" Annie" (p. 487) is the name of the young lady to whom I am
engaged. Beyond the one fact of her name, the description was too vague
to afford much proof' of knowledge of any kind, though correct &8 far as it
goes. "Is her hair short or long 1" (p. 489). This question I asked, having
been informed by letter that she had had her hair cut quite short. The
answer of the medium clearly conveyed the impre88ion that such was not the
case; and I concluded that it was an instance of error. On reaching London
I found to my surprise that it was correct,-th"t her hair had not been cut.
short after all.
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenomena of Trance. 493
NOTE F.-These imdmlces, I think, show that Mrs. Piper's infonuation,
though genuine and remarkable, W88 not invariably accurate, a conclusion
greatly fortified when the remainder of the sitting is taken into account.
They indicate, perhaps, one other point of interest. Mrs. Piper seems to
have been in communication with my mother's mind, to all seeming as
complete 88 that which she maintained with mine. Sometinles she appeared,
indeed, nearer to my mother. In consequence, at these times there was
some confusion between her brothers and my own (p. 488). She had several
brothers who died in infancy. I had none.
Written by way of comment on and in explanation of record of interview
of December 21st, 1889,88 taken by Professor Lodge.
January 13th, 1890. E. C. K. GONNER.
Sitting No. 40. Saturday evening, 7 p.m., December 2lat, 1889.
Present: O. J. L. alone, taking notes himself.
(I sat to Mrs. Piper with my hands crossed, so that after the trance came
on it W88 my right hand that W88 released and left hand kept; I was thus
able to take rough notes.)
That man's father's name was Thomas; both Thomas . . • (and
80 on, 88 reported and annotated 88 appendix to previous sitting, p. 490).
Mary's father used to be on board ship, and he fell and hurt his leg.
Fell through a hole in the boat. [Correct.] Can't remember where he got
that article. It was on one of his voyages; but Mary may remember.
[Does not.] Her second father is William ; that is the one with the white
head. The first one W88 Alexander Marshall. [All correct. This is the
first appearance of the surname; it came quite pat. See also p. 472.]
There is one named Clara. You have a sister named Florence.
" No."
Well, Florence belongs to you ; it is your Florence. She has the friend
Whiteman. (See Sitting No. 38, p. 485.) But there are two Florences.
There's a Florence in some other country. One paints and the other doesn't
paint. One's married and the other isn't married. It is the one who
doesn't paint who is married.
[This is an insignificant communication, but see Note A below,and p.500.]
Here followed a prediction, and soon afterwards the personality seemed
to change to that of a deceased male friend, whom I will call Mr. E.,
of whom I had handed in a letter. The speaker now called me
"Lodge," in his natural manner (a name which Phinuit himself
never once used), and we had & long conversation, mainly non-
evidential, but with a reference to some private matters which were
said to be referred to 88 proof of identity, and which are well
adapted to the purpose. They were absolutely unknown to me, but
have been verified through a common friend. Among other things
we discU88ed Phinuit (see also pp.517 and 553), and I said that I
wanted to try him with some unknown cardboard letters in a sealed
box, but doubted if it were of much use. The voice said :
By all means try. All these experiments mus~ be tried.
"Well, tell him it's very important."
Yes. Here he is coming back.
Now thon, what is it you want of me 1
2 )I
Digitized by Google
494 A Record of Obse1'Vatiom of
"I want you, doctor, to tell me what's in this box, please. No on8
knows."
Give me a pencil (putting the box to top of medium's head).
A pencil was handed to him and he wrote on cardboard, slowly,
L K Que N
and then dropped the pencil. [See Note B, and also p. 495.]
I gave him another pill box in which were letters I did know.
"Thank you. Can you do these too 1"
I'll try. No, I can't, I am dazed with that other box, and besides I am
getting too weak. Try me earlier on another time. I am going now.
NOTE A.-I happen to have two cousins Florence, one married and
abroad, and who, so far as I know, does not paint. I wrote to my other cousin
Florence (who paints and is not married), asking if she had a friend MiSli or
Mrs. Whiteman, or'Vhyteman, whom she had seen lately and had something
the matter with her head, a headache or something. She sent a postcard to
say "No, what on earth do you mean 1" Next day another postcard to say:-
" Whytehead won't do, will it 1 I am this very day returning such a one'li
call, and drinking tea it has struck me on re-reading your letter as being
something like the name you inquire about. She is lately married."
(It is perhaps more than a little far-fetched to suggest that Dr. Phinuit
may have caught the name wrongly, and on being corrected by the syllable
"head" have proceeded to say that she had something wrong with her head:)
NOTE B.-This was a very carefully planned experiment. Some children's
card letters pinched by me out of a box containing a good many alphabets at
the house of ProfeSlior Carey Foster were put into a pill box without looking
at them, and sealed up very carefully in his presence, using his seal, &c. All
this was done on November 29th, preparatory to my Cambridge visit.
After Dr. Phinuit had ostensibly read the letters I wrote two accounts,
with full details of the letters and their apparent position in the box. One I
sent to Mr. Myers, the other under seal to Professor Carey Foster, asking him
to wire if he were at home and could open the box. He did wire, and I Beut him
the box. He opened it carefully and wrote out every detail, before having
read my sealed statement. The letters actually in box were: W-A-R-K
-D-N-E-D.
There is thus no connection whatever (beyond chance) between the two
statements, and the experiment completely failed.
The next sitting was a very poor one, with a lot of rambling talk.
In it occurred a little squabble between Dr. Phinuit and myself,
because I remonstrated with him for fishing and talking va",auely
instead of holding his tongue. He said it was all dark, no good to-
day; that the medium couldn't be feeling well, and so on. The only
incidents worth recording are here stated.
Sittillf/ No. 41. Noon, SWui<l!1 moming, December 2211d, 1889.
Present: O. L., M. L., and for the first time Alfred Lodge (p. 512).
O. L. holding hand. Notes taken by 1\1. and A. L.
Digitized by Goo~
Cerlcdn Phenom,ena of Trarwe. 495
I have had a talk with your uncle, the one that had a fall, and passed out
of the body. He doesn't remember much about you.
"I don't know which one you mean."
Too bad. He's connected with Uncle Robert.
I handed in the box of letters again, and he wrote them down I\B before,
but not so distinctly-L-K-Q-N-U-C.
Soon after occurred the episode of "Charlie Randall," I\B reported at
end of Sitting 38. .
He said something jocular about my wife's stepfather being her uncle,
evidently referring to the lllistake he had made in at first calling
him Uncle William. (See Sitting No. 16, p. 468.)
Asked to tell us about himself if he couldn't say anything about other
people, he said his wife had been Mary Latimer, and that she (or
he?) had a sister Josephine. Born in Marseilles. (See also p. 520.)
(That WI\B all of the slightest moment. Such things I\B telling Alfred
that" there are two Charleys and two Henrys in your family,"
though it happens to be true, are obviously not worth the quoting.)
After this occurred two sittings, Nos. 42 and 43,at which a medical
man practising in Liverpool was introduced, without notice, by the
nallle of Dr. Jones. He came again the same evening and brought
his wife. This time, unfortunately, they were admitted by a servant,
who announced their names. Phinuit did not mention it, however.
The full account of these sittings is long, and would require a great
deal of annotation to make the details clear. For the sake of
hrevity, I propose merely to abstract them. There are a number of
erroneous statements, some of them to be partially accounted for by
the fact that Dr. and Mrs. C. are cousins (a fact Phinuit did not
ascertain), and that he mixed their relatives at the second sitting.
The family seems to be a very lal'ge one. I quote later the misstate-
ments, but first I pick out the correct ones or those which require
comment. I may say that Dr. C. was almost entirely silent. Occasion-
ally he assented with a grunt, but I found afterwards that he was
assenting to wrong quite as much as to right statements. I hardly'
ever knew what was right and what wrong as I took the notes. He
was thus an excellent though trying sitter. Phinuit was in one of
his most loquacious moods, or he would not have progressed so well.
Towards the end one could see he began to get tired of his own
monologue. (See also his remarks, p. 499.)
Sitting No. 42. McnKlay mornil'fl, Decemher 231"1l.
Present: Dr. C. (introduced as Dr. Jones) and O. J. L.
[The following is an abstract of the correct, or subsequently corrected
or otherwise noteworthy, statements.]
"You have a little lame girl, lame in the thigh, aged 13 ; either second or
third. She's a little daiRY, I do like her. Dark eyes, the gentlest of the
lot; good deal of talent for music. She will be a brilliant woman; don'l;
2 M 2
Digitized by Goo~
496 A Record of Ob8ervatio7ls of
forget it. She h88 more sympathy, more mind, more-quite a little daISy_
She's got a mark, a curious little mark, when you look closely, over eye, a.
scar through forehead over left eye. The boy's erratic; a little thing, but a.
little devil Pretty good when you know him. He'll make an architect.
likely. Let him go to school. His mother's too nervous. It will do him
good. [This W88 a subject in dispute.] You have a boy and two girls and a.
baby; four in the body. It's the little lame one 1 care for. There are two-
mothers connected with you, one named Mary. '\;our aunt passed out with
cancer. You have indigestion, and take hot water for it. You have had a.
bad experience. You nearly slipped out once on the water. [Dangerous.
yacht accident last summer. Above statements are correct except the lame-
ness. See next sitting.]
Sitti",g Nu. 43. Mf.tlldayerwing, December 23m.
Present: Dr. and Mrs. C. and O. J. L. [Statement correct when.
not otherwise noted.]
"How's little Daisy? She will get over her cold. But there's something
the matter with her head. There's somebody round you lame and somebody
hard of hearing. That little girl h88 got music in her. This lady is fidgety_
There are four of you, four going to stop with you, one gone out of the body_
One got irons on his foot. Mrs. Allen, in her surroundings is the one with
iron on leg. [Allen was maiden name of mother of lame one.] There's
about 400 of your family. There's Kate ; you call her Kitty. She's the one-
that's kind of a crsnk. Trustworthy, but cranky. She will fly off and get.
l1l:lrried, she will. Thinks she knows everything, she does. [This is the-
nurse-girl. Kitty, about whom they seem to have a joke that she is a walking
compendium of information.] (An envelope with letters written inside.
N-H-P-O-Q, W88 here handed in, and Phinuit wrote down B-,J-R-
0-1-8, not in the best of tempers.) A second cousin of your mother's
drinks. The little dark-eyed one is Daisy. 1 like her. She can't hear
very well. The lame one is a sister's child. [A cou.'1in's child, the one lIee
Allen, really.] The one that's deaf in her head is the one that's got the
music in her. That's Daisy, and she's going to have the paints 1 told you of.
[Fond of painting.] She's growing up to be a beautiful woman. She ought to
have a paper ear. [An artificial drum had been contemplated.] You ha"e an
Aunt Eliza. There are three Maries, Mary the mother, Mary the mother,
Mary the mother. [Grandmother, aunt, and granddaughter.] Three brotllers
and two sisters your lady has. Three in the body. There were eleven in
your family, two passed out small. [Only know of nine.] Fred is going to
pass out suddenly. He married a cousin. He writes. He has shining things.
Ihrgnettes. He is away. He's got a catchy trouble with heart and kidneys.
and will pl\S8 out suddenly. [Not the least likely. It is rather odd t11at the
surname of this "Fred," not given here, WI\S once mentioned, either
accidentally or otherwise, in a totally different connection in Sitting 38
(p. 484); being then, of course, quite unintelligible.]
NOTES.-The most striking part of this sitting is the prominence given
to Dr. C. 's favourite little daughter, Daisy, a child very intelligent and of a.
,"ery sweet disposition, but quite deaf; although her training enables her to
go to school and receive ordinary lessons with other children. At the first
Digitized by Google
Oei'tain Phenomena of Trance. 497
sitting sho is supposed erroneously to be lame, but at the second sitting this
is corrected and explained, and all said about her is practically correct,
including the cold she then had. Mrs. Piper had had no opportunity what-
-ever of knowing or hearing of the C. children by ordinary social means. Wo
barely know them ourselves. Phinuit grasped the child's name gradually,
'using it at first as a mere description. I did not know it myself. Dr.
Phinuit is lavish with predictions, such as the one at the end, which fre-
quently, I think ususlly, fail. I deeply regret to say that his predictions
-regarding Daisy are likewise false, for she caught the in1luenza, and the
announcement of her death is in to-day's paper.-June, 1890.
The following is a summary of the false assertions :-
ERRONEOUS STATEMENTS.
At Sitting 42 :-
"Your lady's Fanny ; well, there is a Fanny. [No.] Fred has light
hair, brownish moustache, prominent noso. [No.] Your thesis was BOme
special thing. I should say about lungs." [No.]
At Sitting 43 :-
"Your mother's name was Elizabeth. [No.] Her father's lame. [No.]
()f your children there's Eddie and Willie and Fannie or Annie and a sister
that faints, and Willie and Katie (no, Katie don't count) [being tho nurse],
and Harry and the little dark-eyed one, Daisy. [All wrong except Daisy.]
()ne passed out with sore throst. [No.] The boy looks about 8. [No,
4.] Your wife's father had something wrong with leg; one nsmed
William. [No.] Your grandmother had a sister who married a Howe-
Henry Howe. [Unknown.] There's a Thomson connected with you [no],
and if you look you will find a Howe too. Your brother the captain
{correct], with a lovely wife, who has brown hair [correct], has had trouhle
in head [no], and has two girls and a boy." [No, three girls.]
Dr. C. permits me to append the following note of his on the case,
written some time later:-
"The trance state seemed natural; but had more voluntary movement
than I had ever seen in an epileptic attack. The entire change in Mrs.
Piper's manner and behaviour is unlike an intentional effort, and it is
possible she herself believes that the conditiolls mean something outside of
herself. With regard to the result, the misses seem to balance the hits, and
the 'reading' is not· so impressive as the ' sitting.' After reading over
your notes I think they consist of a certain amount of thought-reading
and a large amount of skilful guessing."
At the next sitting I had arranged for a shorthand writer to be
present, and take everything down as nearly verbatim as possible.
It is not a very favourable sitting, and the only special importance
attaching to it is owing to the fact that it was by parcel post that morn-
ing that the watch arrived which was mentioned in the introduction
(p. 458); but as this was one of the few sittings for which the report was
attempted to he made verbatim I think that space must be spared for
its insertion in full ; it being understood, I hope, that the full report is
Digitized by Google
498 . A Record of ObseI'Vat ions of
given in order to convey a better notion of the whole manner of a sitting
other than a first one, i.e., one conducted by a stranger. It will be
perceived that by this time we converse pretty freely with the Phinuit
personality, in order to draw him out. In the early sittings I had
been reticent, and I had introduced reticent strangers, until I had
completely satisfied myself of the existence of some kind of power, and
of the honesty of Mrs. Piper; I was now anxious to push the experi-
ment further, so as to distinguish if possible between mind-reading and
clairvoyance proper: I wanted to get something which I did not
know. It was with this object that I had written for the watch; and
it was with this in view that I sometimes now saved time by convey-
ing some common bit of information myself. Such a proceeding may
have been less judicious than I deemed it, but whatever I already kne\\'
it was but of little advantage to be told; I had already ascertained
that Phinuit could do that; I wanted to be told something that I could
afterwards verify, and it seemed to me that Phinuit got on better
when one gave his powers some SOl·t of confidence, and did not continue
to ask trivial testing questions such as " How many brothers have I
got 1" Such questions are proper enough for strangers to ask; but
after a time Phinuit gets impatient with an old sitter unless he goes
on to more reasonable matter. In our ignorance of the mode of mind-
action involved it may be rash to surmise, but I think it probable
that a sitter really and not only scientifically anxious to gain infor-
mation on some subject would be likely to get the best results; and I
endeavoured to put myself as nearly as possible into the appl"Opriate
attitude for receiving information. I perceive that it has a ludicl·ous
effect in print.
I wish, moreover, to point out that the view to be taken of this and
some later sittings depends entirely on the view one takes of Mrs.
Piper's personal honesty. It is by strangers that this must be and has
been tested. Since she knew she was to stay with me it cannot be
denied that a fraudulent and industrious person could manage to
secure information concerning my relatives (p. 52i). Once more I repeat
(for what it is worth) that I am convinced that that is not the way it
was done; but the real evidence on such 1\ point must rest on the int{'r-
views with suddenly introduced strangers.
In the annexed report nothing is purposely omitted. The occasional
dots only mean that the speech was too rapid or too inaudible for the
stenographer. The latter in writing out his notes has prefixed to all
Phinuit's speeches the symbol "Dr.," and I have left it so. But for
greater clearness, and in order to indicate the changes of voice and
manner, which were sometimes only partial but were occasionally
marked, I have altered this prefix in a few places to the initial of the
personality supposed to be speaking, putting a query-ml1.l'k at the
Oe1·tain Phenomena of Trance. 499
doubtful places where I do not know whether Phinuit intended us to
suppose that he was reporting in the first person, or that he had
temporarily quitted his post. Nothing at all depends on these prefixes,
they merely assist an understanding of how the dialogue sounded j
and it was only very occasionally that the changed voice and mauner
resembled that of the person supposed to be speaking sufficiently to
excite interest. It will, of course, be perceived that, in even a
successful imitation of voice and manner, there need only be a trifle of
executive skill in addition to mind-reading.
Sitting No. 44. Noon. December 24th, 1889.
Present: O. J. L. ; later, M. L. also; with Briscoe taking shorthand
notes all the time. (Verbatim report, as a specimen taken at random.)
Dr. : .. How do you do, Doctor 1" (Evidently referring to the last sitter,
Dr. C.)
O. L.: "H'm. I am very well, thank you."
Dr. : 'Ullo, I thought it was the Doctor. You know I saw him last."
O. L. : "Yas, you did."
Dr. : "Two times. Well, I thought it was him, don't you know. I will
see him again some time."
O. L.: "Well, .how is the medium to-day 1"
Dr. : "Oh, pretty well."
O. L. : "You gave the Doctor (i.e., Dr. C.) a very good sitting" (p.495).
Dr. : "Very good what 1"
O. L. : "You told him 0. lot of things."
Dr. : "I told him all I could hear, but it was a terribly complicated
family. I cannot keep so many things quite clear, and they do not talk
enough. They were too reserved, you know, and too quiet."
O. L.: "They were afraid of interrupting you. They meant well."
Dr. : "Yes, they are all right; but you know they should recognise their
friends, and if they don't do that then . . . well, it does notseem cordial.
\Vhen you meet your friends you may at least say • How are you 1' "
O. L.: "Have you seen any of my friends 1"
Dr.: .. I have. I saw your uncle, don't'you know."
O. L. : "Any more of my relations 1"
Dr. : "Yes, I have. There are two Olivers in your family. Two.
There is an Oliver and Alfred, brothers, you know. [Yes.] Who's that fellow
there 1"
O. L. : "That is only my clerk." [He is really clerk to the College
Registrar.]
Dr. : "How are you 1"
(Clerk) E. B.: "I am very well."
Dr. : .. Glad to see someone is well."
Dr. to O. L. : "Do you know those letters the Doctor gave me? " [Refer-
ring to some letters written inside all envelope and handed in at previous
sitting.]
O. L.: "Yes, I know."
Dr. : .. You should not use him for your things. You should give them
me yourself."
Digitized by Google
500 A Record of Observations of
O. L. : "It was his doing. We had arranged before the sitting to try
that ; it was his idea."
Dr.: "But it rather bothered me at the time. They were •P.O.Q.,
• . . ." [Thes~ are three of them now (p. (96).]
O. L.: "You did not get them right."
Dr.: .. I know I got them right."
O. L.: .. They were not quite right, but never mind them. There is a
question I've got for you. "
Dr. : .. What 1"
O. L. : .. I want to ask you about this watch, if you please" (p. 458).
Dr.: .. About what 1 What do you want to know 1"
O. L. : "Well, I want to know to whom it belonged."
Dr. : .. He is in the spirit. He used to work with little wheels. I see
him in a room with little wheels with figures on them. He had to do with"
something that had little wheels."
O. L. : .. No, no; I don't mean the man who made the watch. I mean
the gentleman who used to wear it."
Dr.: .. Well, confound it, is not that what I am telling you 1 It's a funny
old thing. It has been through the wars, I should think. Curious old
watch." (Fingering it.)
O. L. : .. Do you know anything about it 1"
Dr. : ..It belonged to one of your uncles."
O. L.: .. Did it belong to anyone who had something to do with little
wheels 1"
Dr. : .. Well, it did really, and this was given to him by his father.
. • . . Little round wheels, with figures on. Given him by his father.
I will bring him. He is the one like Uncle Robert, and he is the one who met
with an accident. He had a fall in the body, don't you know. He writes to
Uncle Robert and Uncle Charles. That is, brother Charles, I mean to say."
O. L.: .. Brotller of him 1"
Dr. : .. Yes, and Oliver."
O. L. : .. Is he there now 1"
Dr. : .. Ay, right here."
O. L.: .. Would he send a message to Uncle Robert 1"
Dr. : "O-L-I-V-E-R, that's his name, I know. No, no, that's
Oliver's name."
O. L. : .. Who does he mean by that 1"
Dr. : .. That is his brother. Look here, if I get this mixed up you won't
bother me, will you1 Oliver is the name he gave. He had a brother Oliver,
and a father Oliver, and a nephew Oliver. [Correct.] And then there
is Henry-H-E-N-R-Y."
O. L.: "Yes."
Dr.: .. But that is your brother. Thero is another brother. Then
there's Ellen. '
O. L. : •• I:Jister of me 1"
Dr.: .. No, he has got sister Helen. I got that mixed, didn't 11 But
wait a minute, confound it. Did you find out who Florence was yet 1"
O. L.: "She eays she has not got a friend Mrs. Whiteman." [See Sittings
38 and 40, pp. 485 and 494.]
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenomena of Tmnce.
Dr. : "Miss Whiteman-whether I said Miss or Mrs. I am not sure.'
O. L. : "I wrote to the one that paints, and is not married."
Dr. : "I told you one of them painted and the other one didn't."
O. L. : "Yes, you did."
501
Dr. (returning to the watch): "Say, do you know he has got a brother
Charley, one Robert, one Oliver 1 [True.] Did you ever see such a many
brothers 1 Did you ever 1" [There were over twenty.]
"J-O-H-N. DD you know him 1 Well, John--. But you know
him. There was a J ohn. Well, he is in the spirit. And you do not know
him 1 Well, you are stupid." .
O. L. : "Do you mean the one I was asking about 1"
Dr. : "I do mean him."
O. L.: "Oh, I know him, but you have not got it quite right. Let us
hear his name 1"
Dr. : "It is J--. Confound it. He is telling it to me j telling about
his brothers too."
O. L. : "I should be very glad if you would get him to speak."
Dr. : "His name's Jonathan, confound it. [No.] Don't you suppose I
can hear it 1 Well, I can hear it anyhow. J-O-N-A-T-H-A-N.
Why don't you talk abOut some of the rest of them 1 Go on to talk about
the rest, and let me talk to him. I will bring him right up close to me."
O. L.: "I want to send word to Uncle Robert."
Dr.: "That is the man I am always talking about. I told you about him."
O. L.: "Get him to tell us about when they were young. All he
knows."
Dr. : "I shall get great good things for you out of him. He's a very
bright man. Great deal to do with this thing" (the watch).
O. L. : "Yes, I got it on purpose for you."
Dr. : "Little wheels with figures on them."
O. L. : "What are those things1"
Dr. : " Well, I believe-yes."
O. L. : .. What were they for 1"
Dr.: "Don't you see these little round things with figures on 1 They are
wheels j like round wheels exactly. Musical things, with little figures on all
round them."
O. L. : ',Would they be for calculation 1"
Dr.: "I cannot tell the idea of them. You know what I mean. Liko
• . . draught (1 draft). And then these figures are marked. He is
showing a plate. I see them. I tell you, Captain, that this is right."
O. L.: "He used to do calculations."
Dr. : "I tell you, and you ask Robert. If you don't know it he will, and
that will be all the better. Here's your father."
O. L. : "How is my father 1"
Dr. : "Your father is all right. Do you hear that answer? He is all
right. There are two gentlemen talking to me. One's father, other's uncle.
Your father . . . . sends his respects to you all. He is a very nice
man, got these things like you rotmd here, don't you know." (Beard and
whiskers.) [True.]
O. L.: "Send my love to my father."
Digitized by Google
502 A Reco'rtl of Observations OJ
Dr. : "I will."
O. L.: "And also to my mother."
Dr. : •• Oh, yea. He and your mother are together. There WIIo8 a separa-
tion for a long while. She went out of the body first, and then he followed
her [correct], met her, and happy."
Dr.: "Joseph, the one that owned the watch 1 Don't you suppose I can
hear it 1 It is J -0. How the d-- do you pronounce it 1 I tell you that
is right. Oh, I see, I see, you remember Joseph, JOI), a cousin of yours, that
paased out of the body when he had a fever 1 No 1 A little fellow, do you
know 1 And he had the fever, and he is your mother's brother's child, or
Kister's child, I cannot tell you which, and he is in the spirit. [Unintelligible.]
Your mother's here now."
O. L. : •• She began a message to me which you forgot, about my sister."
Dr.: .. She sent a message to Charley and to Oliver."
O. L. : "Yea, but you began one to my sister, but did not finish."
Dr.: •• I told you as much as I heard, and some one else spoke."
O. L. : "Yes; but try and get the rest now."
Dr.: .. I WlUlt you to tell her to make the change. It is the best thing
Khe can do, and will help her. She is quite unsettled in her mind, and she
says that if she would she would be better after, and this as regards her life,
do you see '/ She wants her to make up her mind and settle in your
lIurroundings. In yours because she points to you, and to do this it will be
better for her, as she intended to do first. And it will be better for you all.
I tell you, my friend, your mother says it, your aunt sayll it, and your father
811.ys it. Now, if you believe anything I can tell it. Your mother says it,
your Aunt Anne says it, and I know them all. Your Uncle John says it.
J-O-H-N (do you see 1) says, Tell your sister Ellen-Ellenr-Ellenelly
(now, then, what the d--is her name 1) to settle in your surroundings, asshe
intended to do first. I don't know what it means. Because she is very much
unsettled, and she does not know which to do, and it will be better for you,
your welfare, for the family, for her, and you, now. And she is strong
enough for it. Best thing she can do. She will be better, and do you think
about it." [See Note C, p. 507 ; see also pp. 513, 514,531,532, and 539.]
O. L.: "Thank you."
Dr.: "And you tell her, if you like, that I said so, that they tol~ me,
and that I told you, and if . . . . What do you think of that 1 Be-
cause the change of air, and the surroundings, the busy occupation, and
the responsibility of her life, will do her good, and take her out of herself,
and from thinking of her physical condition; better for her every way. Well,
if you don't believe that . • . . I will stake my word of honour that
is the truth. What do you think of that 1" [See Note C.]
O. L. : "Are they all there still 1"
Dr. : "One difficulty that I have is to make your uncle conscious of this
[watch], and the other is getting the spirit to speak to you. He had a fall
in the body [true]; passed out of the body long, long time. Rather
difficult for me to talk to him, do you see 1 Because he passed out when you
wero young and you do not know so much about him, and at the same time
he does not seem to take an interest in you."
O. L. : "No, but he doos in Uncle Robert 1"
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenomena of Trance. 503
Dr.: "He is the one who went with your Uncle Robert to try the
experiment. [Unintelligible.] They started out together, but it did not Buit
him just well, and gave it up [incorrect] and went into • then
worked with the figures. What do you call them 1 "
o. L.: "He used to do calculations."
Dr. : "What the d-- are calculations 1"
o. L. : "Well, the fact is he belonged to an insurance company. They
have to calculate how long people are likely to live. They do that by figures. ,.
Dr. : "It comea like a composition, and all • • • with figures like you
read out sheets of music, and they have got little round wheels with letters
on them. That is a seal. The little wheels, you know, with figures on them.
Seals. Little marks with figures on them. Go and look. He will tell you.
Do you know, Uncle Robert is very much interested. . . . He thinks
everything of Uncle Robert. and he was with him in the same business. [See
Note A.] They started out together, and then he gave it up and came here.
What do you think of that 1 It is true. He and your Uncle Robert had
their pictures taken together. He had his hat on. A long while ago. Had
it taken in tin. Little bit of paper pasted on the . • . He was sitting
down. The other standing up. Tall hats on. Well, there, he remembers
that. [See Note B.] And Uncle Robert owns this, (watch) and he left it
with him."
o. L.: "Uncle Robert only sent it me this morning. It came by post
just now."
[phinuit now impersonated the late owner of the watch, my uncle
.Jerry :-]
U. J. : "Very good. Say God bless Robert and I would like to see
him. You are my nephew, aren't you 1"
o. L. : "Yes."
U. J.: "I know you, seems to me I do. Yea. I used to know you, but
you were a little shaver then; a very deep thinker. Used to think a great
deal; more than the reat of the boys. What about Alfred and all those
fellows 1"
o. L.: "They remember you. Especially Henry."
U. J. : " Yes, Henry remembers me; and you, you remember me in
connection with your aunt. I used to see your aunt there a great deal ; and
how wonderfully you have changed. Oh, dear, you are like the reat of tho
family-pretty tall. "
O. L. : "Uncle Robert would be glad to hear from you, sir."
U. J. : "Ask him if he remembers the pictures 1 He has got the ring I
used to have, and the chain. Had a little square thing in the centre of the
chain, right here. Robert will remember it. Ask him what he has done
with my books. He has got them, I am sure. He will tell you."
o. L. : "Do you remember anything when you were young 1"
U. J.: "Yes. I pretty nigh got drowned. I remember that. (With R-
short charscteristic laugh.) Tried to swim the creek, and we fellows, all of
us, got into a little boat. We got tipped over. He will remember it. Ask
him if he remembers that about swimming the creek." [See notes at end of
this seriea (p. 526), where it will be found that the " boat" is inaccurate: it
should be a platform.]
Digitized by Google
504 A Record of Observations of
O. L.: "I will."
U. J. or Dr. : "And he and I went gunning. Got soaked through. Plenty
of good -times·we have had together, plenty of good times, and Robert will
remember it. And I want him to know that I live, and if you send these
messages you tell him that I sent all this. How you have grown. Let me see
how tall youare. [0. L. standing up.] That is not so bad. Sit down. Where
do you suppose you would go if you kept on, you might go through the roof,
but you had better stop so. How are you getting on with your work 1
You have to make people know that you are here. That is a great difficulty."
rAll this is mere padding, of course. " Gunning" is rank American.]
O. L. : "Do you often want to talk to them 1"
Dr.: "Who is Jack 1 Will you tell me who that is 1 James (spelling
it), that is your (1 wife's) cousin."
O. L. : "I don't know."
Dr. : "But you have always said you did not know him. Now I think you
are stupid. Why don't you know 1 this cousin of hers is bound to make him-
self known. Here is William T-O-M-K-I-N-S-O-N. Yes, that
is right. William Tomkinson. He is an old man, with white hair and beard,
and he has nothing here (moustache). He passed out with trouble with the
bladder. [All correct. See pp. 474, 476.]
O. L. : "Would he like to see Marie 1 Won't my uncle send his name
to Robert1"
Dr.: "Yes. He lost his pocket-book one time with considerable money
in it, William did. [Likely enough. A clerk of his decamped with a large
Bum once.] That is William now. William is here-Tomkinson, and he
wants to send his love to Mary, and he says if Mary will only keep quiet,
that there is something troubling her, and that if she will only just keep
quiet a little and not worry too much she will be much better. Tell ber her
father says that: her numbet: 2 father" (pp. 468, 474, 476, and 537).
O. L. : "I will tell her." [Here I summoned my wife.]
Dr.: "That Dr. (i.e., Dr. C. again) had two mothers. And tell her
that I would like very much to see her."
Mrs. L.: "She still thinks of him. She thinks of him always."
W. Tomkinson: "She was very kind to me and did a great deal for me.
She could have done nothing more when I was ill."
Mrs. L. : "Tell hinl how grieved I was."
W. T. or Dr.: "I know it ; but mysuffering was all over in a little while.
I never suffered since. Be a good girl; courage is everything. Keep up ;
do your best. You can take my word you will come out all right, and be
well. Now that is a good deal. You will positively be well and free from
difficulties that now.trouble you in the material life."
Dr.: "Wait a minute, and I will speak to him too. That is Alec (p. 472).
and Alec says the same. Nothing fought for nothing won, but patience and
perseverance overcome all things. Be patient and you will not suffer long.
William and Alec say the same."
W. T.: "Ask the little girl if she remembers my illne88. I never was BO
well after that operation." [P088ibly true.]
Mrs. L. : .. We thought you were better for a time."
W. T.: "I never was. I was only temporarily relieved then. It would
Digitized by Google
Oe1'iain Phenornena of Trance. 505
come on again. Until I WM relieved of my sufferings, God only knows what
I did suffer. [His last 24 hours were one constant agony.] I am not
depressed any more. I am happy now, and I have got a good home."
MrR. L. : "And why were you misunderstood 1"
W. T. or Dr. : "Because they could not understand my temperament, my
disposition, my peculiarity; but that was my physical state. I have seen it
now; that makes me feel happy, Marie. If you ever think . . • • of
me. Speak to me, my child."
Mrs. L. : "Yes, I do, but am grieved."
Dr. 1: "Why 1"
Mrs. L.: "Grieved that you should have been misunderstood."
Dr. 1: "It was not their fault exactly. It was the complaint I told you
of, when I spoke to you before. I have seen you before, haven't I 1 It was
not their fault; it was not mine. I could not help it, but I used to seem so.
depressed; it seemed there was nothing of good in life for me; but there ia
something here for me, thank God."
Mrs. L. : "But you enjoyed life, and wanted to stay in the body."
Dr.?: "I did, but at last I was glad to be relieved, and lam happy now.
I am not dead, for I still live. I am not material. You are looking with
wonder. I am here and I see you both. I see you all. I am notdead. My
body is, but I am not."
Mrs. L.: "And you see the children, don't you 1"
Dr. 1: "I see them all, every one of them."
Mrs. L. : "Do you see that little one you were so fond of 1"
Dr. 1: "I do, and Marie, too. I remember her when she was a little-
thing. God bless her. She would be a funny little thing. Little body.
No sel1ishness in her. She was a good child. God bless her. . Marie~
dear, don't be 80 grieved."
Mrs. L. : "Do you remember little V.?"
Dr. 1 : "I do remember. "
o. L. : "Where is he now 1"
Dr. 1: "He is with Mary. [i.e., his grandnlother: true.] He is better-
there, and we are going to take good care ofhim, that nothing serious happens.
You remember. See if we don't take good care of him, in your life, not in
ours. Our interest is very great, very large, and we could do a great desl.'r
Dr.: "And, Marie, dear, do not worry; be brave; keep him where he is.
Keep him from noise and confusion, for a time. The change will do him
goo~l ; and do not let him get over-worked. Do not send him to school.
Let him stay at home and rest well, and get strong. His nerves are weak,
but he will get better. He will pull through, and come out all right. He
has got worms. Yes, he has got them still; but he will outgrow it, and
make a fine boy. Do not worry. I don't tell you that to encoursge you, but
because it is true."
Mrs. L.: "Are they little or are they big worms 1"
Dr. : "Large, not small, but largll worms; that is-they are not tape-
WOnDs. No." [Trull.]
Mrs. L. : "What should we give him 1"
Dr.: "You give him vermifuge to take. Suggest lOme." [N.B.-This is
not the usual Phinuit method of prescription: it is quite exceptional.]
Digitized by Google
506 A Record of Ob8eMJations of
o. L. : "Mercury 1"
Dr. : "No, too strong. Weaken him."
Mrs. L. : "Santonin 1 Scammony 1 QU&88ia 1"
Dr. : " Yea, scammony is good. Give him that with qU&88ia alternately."
o. L.: "Both injected 1"
Dr.: "Yes. Best thing of the lot. Do you know who Jerry-J-E--
R-R--Y-is1"
o. L. : .. Yes. Tell him I want to hear from him."
U. J.: "Tell Robert, Jerry still lives. He will be very glad to hear from
nIe. This is my watch, and Robert is my brother, and I am here. Uncle
.Jerry-my watch." (Impressively spoken.)
o. L.: "Do you see Aunt Anne now 1"
Dr.: "Yes, she looks the same identical; always the same Aunt Anne.
• . . We took good care of him. You little woman, didn't we 1"
Mrs. L. : "About my boy 1"
Dr. : "He will come out all right. He is thin ; pale; he looks a little
tired; he is nervous; he is a little saint, that fellow; he is a good little
fellow, and one of the best. Isn't he 7 He is good; one of the best; he is
nervous, that's what's the matter with him. He means well. Not a better
boy in the country than he is. He is ner\'ous, irritable, excitable. Can't
allow it. I did not intend to say, but I can see the foundation-that doctor's
boy [Sitting 42] is a perfect little devil, and full of it as he can stick. If
ever anybody did he will outgrow it, and come out first-class. Fiendish little
nature. The other little fellow, domineering. I tell you you have got a
great comfort in that boy."
Mrs. L. : .. \Vill he live to be a man 1"
Dr. : "Fretting! It is all bosh, and you had better be asleep than
fretting about people. Do 1\8 I told you. He will come out all right. That's
what's the matter. Give him hot water to drink. Give him it to drink at
night. He flhould sometime. You give it to him. Tell him to take it.
You make the vermifuge I told you. There is no chance of his going. You
will see him change. His nerves won't be so wrong. Show some discretion;
have sense. Take good care of yourself, Marie, we'll take good care of him.
Change will do him good. There is others in your surroundings that needs
looking after just as much and more. You need not worry about &Dy of
them for the present. It is all right. It will be all right. God knows best,
but you know what I told you, Captain (p. (69). I can't help it. In other
l11atters you need not fret. You will have comfort in that boy yet."
Mrs. L.: .. What about the little girl 1"
Dr.: "She's all right, no fear about that. You need not worry about
ller at all. I told you she will have many little pull-downs, drawbacks,
disagreeable days. She will come out all right. Be a great companion,
don't you fear. She is a good one-going on, too, just as she is. She is not
going to be cut off, that I know. I will stake my word of honour on it.
But God knows. What He told me to say, and what He allows me to know,
I know and no more. I can't help getting mixed up sometimes; and it makes
me mad. I'd like to be all straight, not crooked. I do take care of you.
When the voice of Dr. Phinuit is no longer heard in the body, remember
you hl\(l a friend in me, and one who will always look after you, no matter
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena of Trance. 507
what one says about me. I go on. I fight, fight them all; and they will
always do. . . . Get good for me to do. God bleBB you all, and the best
wishes. Captain! Is there anything else 1 I will speak to you again. Doctor:"
NOTBB.
A. The facts concerning what is often referred to not at all clearly all
the joint busineBB life of my two uncles are, I am told, 88 follows. Uncle J tlrry,
when young, was mathematical master at Lucton School, in Herefordshire.
Then he became actuary to the Palladium Life Ill8urance Company. When
that ceased to exist, he became secretary to a salvage &88OCiation in the
City, and head clerk at Lloyd's. Uncle Robert was all along secretary of the
Marine 11l8urance Company. The buaineBBes were thus not very distinct, but
they never technically" worked together," though after Uncle Jerry became
blind he used to go every day into the City and sit through buaineBB hours in
Uncle Robert's office, where, as a boy, I have often seen him.
B. The facta concerning the photographs are these. There are two framed
photographs of Uncle Jerry, and both these I remember having often seen. A
print of one of them is in the house, and hence Mrs. Piper may poBBibly havtl
seen it; but it is an ugly thing, relegated to some attic. I suppose it belongs
to the early days of amateur photography. It consists of a gate in the middle
of some iron railings, and standing by each gatepost is a man in a tall hat.
One of these men is Uncle Jerry, the other is not Uncle Robert, but a friend
of both, the late Major Cheere; I thought at the time that it was the much
more intimate friend of both, Mr. Robert Cheere.
The other photograph referred to is a better one. I have since had it
sent me from London. In it Uncle Jerry is sitting down blind on a garden
seat, probably at Mr. Cheere's, and near him is sitting a son of one of the
gardeners, to whom he is giving a le880n in algebra.
The mention made by Phinuit is ambiguous as to whether it refers to two
pictures with figures in different attitudes in each, or whether it means one
picture with two figures in different attitudes. My impreBBion at the tilUe
was the latter, and my cOll8cious memory was not able to correct this. But
they are shortly afterwards, and again later on, spoken of in the pluml,
showing that two pictures were really meant (p. 531).
C. The welfare of my only sister, Eleanor, commonly called Nellie, much
younger than the brothers, and left in their charge, is naturally a care to us,
and the advice given and subsequently iterated again and again by Phinuit,
88 the one mCBBage which my mother was anxious to send, is extremely
natural. Mrs. Piper had not seen, nor so far as I know heard of, my sister,
who was in Staffordshire during this first series; but at the second series of
tlittings she was present on a short visit. The state of her health has for
some time made her place of abode and study a serious cOll8ideration, and
the neceaaary indecision has been naturally disquieting to herself, as stated.
See also many subsequent sittings, e.g., No. 46 of this series (pp. 513, 514,
.and 532).
The next sitting was the first with our neighbours the Thompsolls
-(p. 4(5). lirs. Piper had been introduced to them a day Ot· two befOl"e,
and liked them particularly; they are too near neighbours to attempt
making strangers of. Their children also she had seen more or less:
Digitized by Google
508 A Record of Ob8ervations of
though no other relatives. The report might be abbreviated, but por-
tions not evidentially important may be interesting as conveying a good
idea. of Phinnit's manner.
Sitting No. ({). Tttellday e~ni/l.g, 9.30 p.m. December 24th, 1889.
Present: O. L., Mr. and Mrs. Thompson, and A. L. (p. 494) taking
notes.
O. L. holding hands. Mr. and llrs. T. some way off.
.,Hulloa, Captain, I've been talking to your friends. Had a long talk with
Uncle Jerry. He remembers you now, as a boy with Aunt Anne [thill is"
exactly how he would remember me], but you were kind of small. He knew
you but he didn't know me very well; wondered what the devil I wanted
trying to talk to him and how I got here."
"Yes, he remembers his watch-it's in poasession of Robert. He used to
call him Bob. (Took watch ill hands.) Ha! well, this watch came from
Russia-yes-Uncle Jerry said so." [Unlikely.]
"I say, those were insurance papers, those thinga I told you about,
insurance papers with seals on them. Do you know 1"
O. L. : "No, I don't."
"Well, you tell that to Bob, he'll know all about it." [No.]
"Jerry tells me he had a ring which he used to wear on little finger of
left hand; it had a little stone, a stone, a carbuncle in it. The stone had a
little nick in it (on one side 1), it came from Italy. A clumsy thing. He says
he tells this and will tell other things to prove hill identity to Bob, and let
him know he's there. All specific facts he will tell him. [In saying this
sentence Phinuit curiously imitated the manner of U. J.] They used to put
a coat with a strsp on over hill shoulder and play at soldiers, and they got
shut up in a room once and couldn't get out, the key wouldn't tum, and they
had a job to get them out."
O. L. : "Where was that 1"
"Wait a bit, I'll ask him. That wasatyourgrsndmother's, athillhoDle.'·
[None of this can I get verified. The ring is definite enough, but;
nothing is known of it, and it ill extremely unlikely that he ever
wore a ring.l
" Who are those people over there 1"
O. L. : "Mr. and Mrs. Thompson."
"Oh ! why that's the gentleman to whom hill father sent hill love and
said something about Ted. Didn't you tell him 1" [Note ..4.]
O. L.: "Yes, I did, but wasn't sure you meant him." [See pp. 475 and 511.1
"Of course I did. They're a couple, they are. One wanta to do some-
thing and the other doesn't." [Note B.]
" Haven't they a dsughter 1 Ask them."
O. L. : "Have you a daughter 1"
Mrs. T. : "Yell."
"Well, she's kind of pretty, and wears her hair fuzzy and down behind.
[Correct.] She wanta to do something-they want her not to-welI, let her
do it-it's all light."
•• The lady has an uncle John by marriage. lCorrect.] One of the
daughters is musical and the other is artistic. It's the Dlusical one, the
oldest of the two, she wanta to do something." [See p. 525.]
Digitized by Google
Cel'iain Phenomena of Trance. 509
(Watch again.) "You l\8k Bob if he remembel"ll Fido. He thought
more ofthat than of any single thing he had. " [Remembers nothillg about it.]
"Here, send those folks over here." [Mrs. T. came from other side of
room.] " You're tired, Siss, that's what you are." Mrs. T. : "Yes."
"Well, Fncle John's wife 8I\ys that girl's going to make a change-and
it's the best thing for her. Let her do it. Then another spirit named
William connected with the gentleman; he wants the 8I\me thing." [Note D.]
"Come over." (Mr. T. came.) "'VeIl, here's a good sort of fellow.
. First-rate chap. Ullo, you had a fall on the icc. Shook you up a bit.
Not much, but kind of gave you a bound." Mr. T. : "Yes." [Note E.]
.. That's nothing, got over it. Do you know Richard, Rich, Mr. Rich 1"
Ml"II. T. : "Not well, I knew a Dr. Rich." [Note F.]
"That's him, he's passed out. He sends kindest regards to his father.
There is something about William. I'll get hold of it."
"I 8I\y, Captain, your friends hAve a lot to tell you, they're just clamour-
ing to get at you. Why the devil don't you give them a chance 1"
O. L.: "Well, I will next time."
"There's Marion-Agnes. Ha, ha, I got it that time-Adnes-Agnes."
Mrs. T.: "Agnes, all right."
" How's William 1 He's all right. He's come on quite surprising. He
holds his own pretty well, he used to have rheumatism, but now doing well.
He's almighty set-kind of positive." [Note H.]
" Agnes is going away, going to leave you-a joyous go-.,.let her go."
Mrs. T. : "For ever 1"
"No, no, for a bit. Let her go."
Mrs. T. : "Who is she 1"
"I should 8I\y she's Adaughter."
Mrs. T. : "Yes. she's going to school."
"Good, that's the best thing you've done." [Note G.]
Mrs. T. : "But there's another daughter."
" Ah, that's Titmouse."
Mrs. T. : "Is that her name? "-
"It spells with a T-a devilish funny name. She's a Cl\8e, she is.
She knows A good deal, and is fond of books. Which is it that recites
occasionally-is it the tall one? [Note 1.] That one with the black hair,
she's a good one-going to be a great comfort to you. She's a good.natured
little thing, smart and pretty. Isn't she, Alfred1 I know her father thinks
so too; don't you, father? [Note G.] Which is it you call Ted? He's
kind of lazy little thing. He likes to be helped in putting his boots and
clothes on. He's a little inclined to be dumpish. [Note K.] That one
beginning with T is more demure thAn the others, not quite so much fizz in
her as in the others-quiet-something like her mother. Theosophy? How
do you call that?" [Note 1.]
Mrs. T. : "Theodors."
"Ab, yes, Theo Dora. 'Vell, it's a grand name when you've got hold of
it. There were two Williams, were there not? " Mr. T.: "Yes."
"One you call Will-he's your brother. [Right.] I think your Uncle
William broke his arm." Mr. T. : "No."
" Well, he broke something, it Wl\8 his leg down there below the Jmee--
2 H
Digitized by Google
510 A Record of ObservatiQns of
some time ago. He had coD8iderable difficulty with it and used to walk with
a stick. [Note L.] You have four children."
Mrs. T. : .. Yes, but you've only told us about three."
"Well, the other's a boy: nothing to say about him." [No, robust little
girl, never mentioned by Phinuit. Known to Mrs. Piper.]
" It's a good thing you've got over that trouble here (stomach). Kind of
heavy at times, but it's better. [Note M.l One of your father's ears was"
little deaf. Old gentleman, high forehead, beard, no moustache. Hesitates
a little in speech. Wasn't he paralysed 1" [Note N.]
Mr. T.: "No, I think not."
.. Yos, he was. Passed out in consequence. Ask me any questioD8."
(Handed a bottle of unknown chemical, asking, .. What's this 1")
.. It's strong. It's in pill form. It's got salicylate of soda in it. That's
good for rheumatism. You had better not take it at all. Who prepared
it 1" (Extracting cork and pinching bits to pieces in fingers.)
"Well, they had better prepare one more and die. There's a little bit of
cinchona in it, prepared with sugar. Don't you take it."
[Wrong; it turned out to be sulphate of iron in wrapped-up bottle. It
was purposely unknown.]
(Watch handled again. It was a repeater, and happened to go off.)
.. Hullo, I didn't do that. Jerry did that, to remind you of him. Here.
take it away-it goes springing off-it's alive."
Mrs. T.: .. What can we do for Theodora's headaches 1"
"Nerves of stomach out of order. Have you got anything of hers to give
me1"
O. L. : "Go and get a lock of her hair." (Mr. T. went next door for
that purpose.)
"It was Unele Jerry, the one that had the fall. I'll bring you some more
news of him. Give me back his nine-shooter." (Meaning the watch.)
[Here hair was brought in, and O. L. and A. L. were ordered by Dr. P.
to .. clear out," which they did.]
"I don't care to talk diseases before everybody. [Note 0.] Confound
it, I saw your influence before anyone else here. Didn't the Captain tell
you1 [pp. 475, 508]. You lost your purse, and if you had told me I could
have found it. Your Uncle William takes interest in you, and so does
your father. Mighty mean trick about the purse ~ Lord! done as quick as "
fly. [Note P.] Who is the lady wears a cap in the spirit 1 She don't part
ller hair in the middle-she sends her love to you (Mrs. T.)."
Mrs. T. : "Perhaps it is my mother."
.. Well, I see more than a dozen ladies, but she wears a lace cap. There
was some throst trouble in your mother. (Indicating.) [Note Q.] The
mother of one of you is in the body. I think it is the gentleman's. She is an
angel-she is a good woman-has some trouble with ankle-left one-it
catches her. She will be with you for some time." [Note B.]
O. L. : "Do you know Mr. Thompson's brother 1"
"No, but I'll find him for you. I don't see 'him, but will look him up.
Captain, I told a gentleman named Hodgson I would look up his father; and
he said in the meantime your medium will be hunting ul' people in another
oountry; isn't he a crank 1"
Digitized by Google
Cel'tai1t Phenmnena of Tnmce. 511
.. Here's your brother" (to Mr. T.). .. I have been to hunt hhn up. I
8ee he WSII calied Ted, too. Isn't that where you get name Ted from 1"
[Their son is called Ted; pp. 475, 508].
Mr. T. : "Yes, he was named after Uncle Ted."
"What about the horse-H-O-R-S-E 1 Yes, horse; it is lame."
{Don't understand reference to horse.] .
"He says, 'Tell Isaac to be good to mother always; as he has been.
You have a good picture of me.' " Mr. T. " Yes."
" When you look at it think of me, and I'll be there. I flhall be with
you spiritually."
[Here he asked for pencil and scrawled a few words, getting ,"ery weak.
Writing just legible afterwards in mirror as "Ted "-" Isaac"
-" Horse "-" Dear Brother." Mr. Thompson does not under-
lltand "horse" allusion. His mother's horse is not lame. Tho
horse she previously had for 10 years, and sold two years ago, is
now quite lame. but that is a most triyial circumstance. Mr.
Thompson's name is Isaac, but his brother ususlly called him Ike].
•, For pity's sake, brother, give my love to our mother."
[Here he seemed to be gone altogether, but the yoice returned faintly
once more.]
.. 'Annie.' 'Vho's Fanny 1" Mr. T. "My sister. Yes?"
.. Give my love to Fanny."
(This was the last effort, and very faint.) [See also No. 47, p. 518.]
(Mrs. Piper WSII some little time coming to, and seemed rather
exhaUllted after this sitting.)
NOTES.
A. Mr. T.'s father and brother Ted both died over 20 years ago.
B. Had just been discUSfling a proposition on which they took different
,·iews.
D. Both uncles' names correct.
E. It is several years since Mr. T. had a fall on the ice, and he does not
remember any particular fall.
F. Met Dr. Rich (who died two years since) once, but hardly knew him,
nnd his name WSII not Richard. [See also later sitting, No. 83, p. 554.]
G. Second daughter Agllu, aged 15. (Correct description; rather the
favourite of A. L. and Mr. T. as hinted.-O. L.) Going to boarding-school for
first time, but, as it has turned out since, she ran away home a week after
going, through being unhappy there, and did not return to that school. [See
later sittings, Nos. 80 and 81, pp. 540, 541 and 546.]
H. Fairly correct description of Mr. T.'s brother William.
I. Mr. T.'s eldest daughter, TMOOQI"CI. Correct except as to reciting
occasionally.
K. Very correct description of Mr. T. 's little son Ted (eight years old).
L. Refers to Mr. T.'s brother William (H), and to his Uncle William.
Latter lived lllost of his later life in America. but cannot ascertain that he
ever broke his leg or arnl. (Am writing to question relations in America.)
M. Correct reference to an illness of Mr. T.'s.
N. Incorrect reference to Mr. T.'s father, who died suddenly of fatty
degeneration.
2 N 2
Digitized by Google
512 A RecOIu of Observations of
O. Mr. T. 's daughter's (I) headaches well described, and some very "IU-
fashioned herb remedies suggested, with the recommendation to sec hint,
(Dr. P.) again in six weeks if not cured.
P. Mr. T. was robbed of hill purse in London 30 years ago-serious.
matter to him then.
Q. Remarkably correct description of Mrs. T. 's mother, who always wore'
lace caps and with ribbons to hide a lump 011 throat-she parted her hair Ilt
side.
R. Mr. T. 'II mother, aged 81, living in Cheshire. The statement ahout
pain in ankle was true; she had rheumatic pains in left ankle at the time.
Note a{ldeti by lrI,.. T., Allgllld, 1890.-Referring to Note L abo\"e, Ilnd
the asserted lameness of my tTncle William, I hAve just received the following
reply from my cousin in Toronto, to whom I wrote making inquiries :-
"July 19, 1890. I am certain that fAther never broke either his arm or his;
leg. He had, howe\'er, a good deal of trouble from swelling in his anklea
and the lower part of his legs, during the latter part of his life, while in
Virginia. Looking oyer mother's old letters from ChArlottesyille, this mont-
ing, we found several references to his being laid up from this cause, and alse>
to a swelling of the hand, which afBicted him a good deal. I cannot recall
anything at any other period of his life in any WAy corresponding to your
questions. "
Sittillg No. 46. Cl"';stIllOS Day, 1889. 11.40 0.111.
Present: O. L. and Alfred Lodge, Professor of Mathematics at
Cooper's Hill (taking notes).
" How are you, CaptAin 1 Who haye you got to see us this time 1"
O. L. : "Noone. Weare haYing this to ourselves." (Handing in :a.
letter.)
"How's Mr. Thompson 1 He'll All right, is he 1 I am pleased he was
here. How are you, Alfred 1 Aunt Anne told me to ask you who had her
books."
A. L.: "They were dh'ided, and some sold."
"Give me some things of Aunt Anne's, and gh'e me Fncl" Jerry's watch
again. Do you remember when Jerry and Bob moved 1" "No."
"They did. They clumged into some new building. Bob will remember,
and it was just about the time he had the watch, years ago. [Not clearly
intelligible.] Uncle Robert hasn't been very well lately; been feeling
poorly."
'·Yes."
"He does more good than Anyone. He is eccentric, but open and kind-
hearted. But not very well. {Tncle Jerry saw him a few hours ago. He WI\."
lying down and resting on a couch-so he is now-there ill a huge picture-
JUSt over couch, a fine old clock on the right as you go in, and a large chAir
and aesA. Who's that old lady there 1-in another apartment-very
limple, modest-looking old lady-nothing peculiar; plain, neat-looking,
got a funny frill round her neck and a big pin (1) instead of collar. Hel'
dress is with figures, stripes all over it, little black marks; blAck dress with
little marks all over it. Very kind-hearted, but kind of a fickle person
more or less. There's a young girl, kind of stout, not beell there very 101lg.
Digitized by Google
CeJ'iain Plumonuma of Trance. 513
.~he's just made a call. Got a little bundle in her hand. A caller of some
·kind. Now you know. There's a domestic upstairs brushing or dusting
'tiomething." [See Note A.]
"Aunt Anne wants to know where her very dark brown cloak is ; if
Eleanor has it. A funny-looking thing; is that what you call sealskin'l She
would like Ellen to have it. They want Ellenr-Ellenelly-Ellen to make a
ehange in her surroundings, for her good, at least until Alfred is settled.
She is all mixed up now. [True.] She should come into your surroundings,
the work will be good for her, it will take her out of herself. Give her
something to think about, it will be better for her physically and every way.
Your mother 8I\ys so, Uncle Jerry 8I\ys so, Uncle John8l\ys so, your mother
.and father 8I\y 80, and Aunt Anne 8I\ys so. 'l'here now, they are very
anxious about it." [See Note C to No. 44, p. 507; also pp. 502, 514, 531,
.and 539.]
O. L. : "But they must send her name better."
"Give me a pencil. (Wrote on back of letter while holding it to forehead
the word "Nellie" distinctly.) [Her Mme is Eleanor, but she is nearly
.always called Nellie.] There, that's her Mme, and that's your Aunt Anne's
writing; she wrote it. [Not unlike. See Note B.] This was a Russian
watch-the Emperor of Russia once had it. [Know nothing of this.] I
.say, do you know Captain-Mr. Wheeler I A friend of Bob's."
"No.·'
" He lII\ys he will know him-he's in spirit. He was once connected with
the lU\\'Y, or with artillery, or something; at any rate, he was an officer.
And Charles Mason, do you know him 1"
"No."
•• He was connected with insumnce. He hall a scar on his face. He
remembers Jerry." [Cannot find out about these persons; I learn that
.there was an Alfred Mason who knew him.]
•• This letter is fr~m your mother, I know." [Correct.]
o. L. : "Yes."
.. You ought to have gone and seen your mother before she passed out."
O. L.: "I didn't know she was ill. I hacl seen her a week before."
.. She WI\.'1 very ill. You should have known, and gune. Your mother
;'1ays Henry is a long way off, and you have not heard of him for 80me time,
.but you will soon."
O. L.: "I haven't heard yet." [See note to Sitting No. 16, p. 466.]
"Oh, that will be all right. He's in Austmlia. He's had trouble with
.hillhead."
O. L. : "I wish you could tell us exactly where he is. 'Ve none of us know."
" I will get your mother or your father t{) go and find his address. Mr.
Da\'ies' friend'" sister in another country wanted to find her hruther, and I
.toM her where he was, and she fuund him nt the number in Regent-street.
.He had heen gone for twelve years."
O. L. : "Well, please find Henry like tlmt." [See p. 522.]
.. I will try. Your brother-he's a mttle-heacle<l"ort of fellow. He was
in California at one time. He's knocke<l about a good deal. He's bound to
nnd his way through the world, no fear. Who cloc.'! Aunt Anne call Arthur .J
.Is he a cousin of yours 1"
Digitized by Google
514 A Record of 01J8el'1.!atim18 of
O. L.: "Yes, I suppose so." [A cousin of whomshe thought a good deaL]
"Oh dear, there's something very bad about this. Here's a little child
called Stevenson-two of them-one named Mannie (1 Minnie) wants to
send her love to her father in the body and the mother in the body-she had
sore throat and passed out. He is very bad, and has gone away, Tery
unhappy. She's clinging to me and begging me to tell you that she's little
Mannie Stevenson, and that her father's almost dead with grief-he sits
crying, crying dreadful, and he's gone away very unhappy. Tell him she's not
dead, but sends her love to him ; and tell him not to cry."
O. L. : "Can she send her name any better1"
"Oh, they called her Pet, and when she was ill they called her Birdie.
And tell mamma, too, do."
" Well, I will if I can. " [Have not been able to identify these pcople.]
" Oh dear. I'm surrounded by friends. They all want to speak. Your
father's name was Oliver. Do you know it, Alfred 1"
"Yes."
" What does he say about coming (1) here 1 He had something to do with
Bob before he passed out. It was the last place he went to. [See Note C.}
At his last interview he didn't feel very well. He wants to know whethel-
Alfred has got his mind made up yet. "
A. L. : .. Yes, pretty well now."
"He's got a lot of young men all round him, Alfred has, talking to·
them. What isjt 1 Are you a profe8S0r too 1"
A. L.: "Yes, I am now."
" 'What have you to do with the sun and the moon 1 Your work is going'
on splendidly. It wants p.'\tience and perseverance. Captain, your friendK.
are very anxious about Nelly. They know she's not been feeling well. Let
her be in your surroundings for a little while. It will do her good.. If you
c<'ln't see it now you will see it in the future. It will do her much good if she
makes that change. It's true, I tell you. They know what they are talking
about. It will be good for you all. Our poor little Alfred can't see it as we
o.'\n. He wants her in his surroundings to be with hint. Your mother &'\ys.
it's not wise, not yet, anyhow. Perhaps later on. It's infinitely better that
she should be with you now. She says distinctly, 'She must be in Olh'er's
8urroundillgldor a while.' [All this advice would be exceedingly important if"
it could be depemled on; i.e., it is a subject on which advic) is wanted. Seu
notes on p. 507. Her keeping house for Alfred was one of the floating ide~s.]
Bec<'luse she's not very well-not feeling at all well. She can content herself in
your surroundings. It will give her responsibility and take her out of herself'
until some other change is made. It is of the utmost physical and mental
inlporbmce. Du you underritand 1-physical and mental. They see her now.
She is now writing (12.2O)-has got a little pencil. [She would be in church
then, in Staffordshire.] I have got Aunt Anne as well as your father and
mother. Isn't this curious that I can talk to you now 1 You know I told you
that if ever I found it possible to communicate with you I would. I said s{).
before I passed out. and here I am talking to you." [See also p. 470.]
O. L.: "YCR, I remember perfectly." [Note D.]
" Alfred, yuu will be happier now that you are more settled in your mind.
You will be happy. and contented, and respected. You will ha\'e to go to.
Digitized by Google
Certctin Phenomena of Trance. 515
Uncle Bob for infonnation about things you don't know. That looks like
Uncle Bob, that one that sits there. Just as you go in at the door on the
left side where the old laJy is with figures on her dress, there's a picture up
there, a good picture. Do you know about Uncle Jerry's gun, a little rifle 1-
he thinks Bob has it. They were out with it together long ago. [I find he
had a rifle: pp. 526-528.] Bob is nearly finished up. Well, it's a good thing.
his brnin is tired, he's getting old. What's he been doing with the church 1
He gave something to it the other day only. [Often does, and gave to
Barking Church not long ago, but nothing particularly noteworthy.] Aunt
Anne, she had lots of books, what became of them 1"
" Several of us had some."
"Tell Charley I am not dead but living and happy in the spirit. [Charley
was her nephew and adopted Bon, now in Canada.] Your uncle has remem-
bered a great deal. It isn't easy. Spirits forget much that happened in the
body, they have other interests. 'Vherever you go either of you I will
do all I can for you. Captain, I'm going to talk with your father and find
out Henry's address from him, and then you write as I tell you."
"I certainly will."
"He's the most erratic and unsettled of the family. If I could have taken
you into my house and surroundings a little earlier it would have been better
for you. That's Aunt Anne. But it can't be helped now."
" I am very grnteful for what you did."
"To appreciate my advice is one thing, to remember me is another.
Don't forget llJ.e, my boy. Jerry says, 'Do you know Bob's got a long
skin-a skin like a snake's skin-upstairs, that Jerry got for him1' It's one
of the funniest things you ever saw. Ask him to show it you. [Note E.]
Oh, hear them talking! Captain!"
NOTES.
A. I ha.ve ascertained that on Christmas morning he went to church, so
the surroundings depicted are not contempornneous. Neither ar~ they very
specific or accurnte. He did have to lie down and rest on a couch a good deal
at this time, and I knew it. The description of the room is not identifying:
the thing on the right as you go in is llot a clock. There was a young visitor
in the house, but not a caller. The old lady in the black dress with black
figures on is the only definitely correct item. I have since seen the dress,
ascertained that it was the one probably worn on Christmas Day, and should
describe it myself as above (p. 512).
B. This writing was not "mirror-writing." Usually when Phinuit
wrote on card held in front of him the writing was perverted so as to be
legihle in a lnirror; sometimes each letter was right but the order pervert~d.
~ingle letters like capitals were made properly. But when the writing was
done on paper held to Mrs. Piper's forehead, i.e., with the hand turned round
-pencil towards face-as in the present instance, the writing was ordinary.
The handwriting is hardly good enough for me to identify it with my aunt's,
or to discriminate it securely from Mrs. Piper'll.
C. I have since asked at Highgate whether my father had been there lIot
long before he died, and one of my cousins at oncc replied, "Ycs, it was th..
last place he went to," exactly in Phinuit's words (p. 514). It seems to have
een a pleasant and remembered visit. Doubtless, however, I had known
516 A Record of Obsert'utions of
sometbing about it at tbe time. The remarks to A. L., next following,
are, as it happens, extremely natural observations.
D. Doubtless a common enougb incident i but it was very seriously said.
and my aunt is the only person who ever said it to mo: she was troubled
about my nascent scepticism. The phrase "passed out" is Phinuit-ese.
E. This episode of tho skin is noteworthy. I cannot imagine that I ever
had any knowledge of it. Here is my Vncle Robert's account of it when I
asked him about it : •• Yes, a crinkly thin skin, a curious thing i I had it in
a box, I remember it well. Oh, as distinct as possible. Haven't seen it for
years, but it was in a box with his name cut in it i the same box with some
of his papers."
Sitting No. 47. El'e/I;lIg of C111'i~tln(f8 D(t!!, 1889, 6.20 p.m.
Present: O. J. L. a.nd A. L. (taking notes).
"Captain, do you know that as I came I met the mediulll going out, and
she's crying. Why is that? "
O. L. : "Well, the fact is she's separated from her children for a few
days, and she is feeling rather low about it. "
" How are you, Alfred 1 I've your mother's influence strong. (pause.)
By George! that's Aunt Anne's ring (feeling ring I 11ad put on my hand just
before sitting), given over to you. And OUy dear, that's one of- the last
things I ever gave you. It was one of the last things I said to you in the
body when I gave it you for Mary. I said, •For her, through you.'" [This
is precisely accurate. The ring was her most "aluable trinket, and it was
gi"en in the way here stated not long before her death. See also pp. 468,
470, 514.]
O. L. : "Yes, I remember perfectly."
" I tell you I know it. I shall never forget it. Keep. it in memory of
me, for I am not dead. Each spirit is not so dim ('/) that it cannot recollect
its belongings in the body. They attract us if t,here has been anything
lipecial about them. I tell you, my boy, I can see it just as plain as if I were
in the body. It was the last thing I gave you, for her, through you, always
in remembrance of me. (Further conversation and advice, ending) Convince
yourself, and let others do the same. Weare all liable to make mistakes i
hut you can see for yourself. Here's a gentleman wants to speak to you."
.• Lodge, how are you 1 I tell you I'm living, not dead. That's me.
You know me, don't you 1"
O. L.: •• Yes. Delighted to see you again." [Mr. E. See also pp. 493,
524,552.]
"Don't give it up, Lodge. Cling to it. It's the best thing you have.
It's coarse in the beginning, but it can be ground down fine. You'll know
best and correct(l). It can only come through a trance. You have to put
her in a trance. You've got to do it that way to make yourself known."
O. L. : •• Is it bad for the medium? "
"It's tbe only way, Lodge. In ono lIenlle it's bad, but in another it's
good. It is her work. If I take possession of tbe medium'lI body and sbe
goes out, then I can use her organism to t-ell tbe world importsnt truths.
There is an infinite power above us. Lodge, believe it fully. Infinite over
all i most mar,·elloUl~. One Mn tell a medium, sbe's like 1\ ball of light.
You Ivvk as dark and material as possible, but we find two or three lights
Digitized by Google
Oertain Plw1!.omena of Trcmce. 517
.shining. It's like a series of rooms with candles at one end. Must use
.analogy to express it. When you need a light you use it, when you have
finished you put it out. They are like transparent windows to see through.
Lodge, it's a puzzle. It's a puzzle to us here in a way, though we understand
it better than you. I work at it hard. I do. I'd give anything I possess
to find out. I don't care for material things now, our intercst is much
.greater. I'm studying hard how to communicate; it's not easy. But it's
. only a matter of a short time before I shall be able to tell the world allsort.'i
<If things through one medium or another. [And so on for IIOme time.]
Lodge, keep up your courage, there is a quantity to hope for yet. Hold it
up for a time. Don't be in a hurry. Get facta; no matter what they call
you, go on investigating. Test to fullest. Assure yourself, then publish.
It will be all right in the end--no question about it. It's true."
O. L. : "You have seen my Uncle Jerry, haven't you·l"
"Yes, I met him a little while ago-a very clever man-had an interest-
ing talk with him."
O. L. : "What sort of person is this Dr. Phinuit 1"
"Dr. Phinuit is a peculiar type of man. He goes about continually, and
is thrown in with everybody. He is eccentric and quaint, but good-hearted.
I wouldn't do the things he does for anything. He lowers himself some-
times-it's a great pity. He has very curious ideas about things and people:
he receives a great deal about people from themselves(I). And he gets
expressions and phrases that one doesn't care for, vulgar phrases he picks up
by meeting uncanny people through the medium. These things tickle him,
and he goes about repeating them. He has to interview a great number of
people, and has no easy berth of it. A high type of man couldn't do the
work he does. But he is a good-hearted old fellow. Good.bye, Lodge.
Here's the Doctor·coming."
O. L.: "Good.bye, E. Glad to have had a chat with you."
[Doctor's voice reappears.] "This [ring] belongs to your aunt. Your
rncle Jerry tells me to ask. By the way, do YOlt know Mr. E. 's
heen here : did YOlt hear him 1..
O. L. : "Yes, I've had a long talk with him."
" Wanta you to ask Uncle Bob about his cane. He whittled it out him-
self. It has a crooked han~le with ivory on the top. Rob has it, and has
initials cut in it. [There is a stick, but description inaccurate.] He has the
skin also, and the ring. And he remembers Bob killing the cat and tying
its tail to the fence to see him kick before he died. He and Bob and a lot
of the fellows all together, in Smith's field I think he Mid. Bob knew
Smith. And the way they played tit-tat·too on the window·pane on All
Hallows' Eve, and they got caught that night too. [Concerning Smith's
field and the cat.killing see notes on p. 527.] Aunt Anne wants to know
about her sealskin cloak. Who was it went to Finland, or Norway I"
O. L.: .. Don't know."
"Do you know Mr. Clark 1-a tall dark man, in the body."
O. L. : "I think so."
"His brother wants to send his love to him. Your Vncle Jerry, do you
know, has been talking to Mr. E. They have become "ery friendly.
E. has been explaining things to him. Uncle Jerry Mys he will tell all
Digitized by Google
518 A Record of Ob8ervati01M of
the facts, and all about families near, and so on, that he can recall. He·
says if you will remember all this and tell his brother, he will know. If
he doesn't fully understand he must come and see me himself, and I will tell
him. How's Mary 1"
O. L. : "Middling, not very well."
"Glad she's going away. [She was, to the Continent. Mrs. Piper
knew it.] William is glad. His "'ife used to be very distressed about
him. You remember his big chair where he used to sit and think."
O. L. : .. Yes, very well."
"He often goes and sits down there now. Takes it easy, he says. He
used to sit opposite a window sometimes with his head in his hands, and
think, and think, and think. [This was at his office.] He has grown younger
in looks, and much happier. It was Alec that fell through a hole in tho
boat, Alexander Marshall, her first father. [Correct, as before.] Where'..
Thompson 1 the one that lost the purse" (p. (10).
O. L. : "Yes, I know."
"Well, I met his brother and he sent lo\'e to all--to sister Fanny, he told
me specially. He tried to lII'y it just as he was going out, but had no time-
was too weak."
O. L.: "Oh yes, we just heard him." [See end of Sitting No. 45, p. 51l.}
"Oh, you did; that's all right. She's an angel, he has seen her to-day.
Tell Ike I'm very grateful to him. Tell Ike the girls will come out all right.
Too's mother and . . And how's Susie1 Give Susie my love" (p. 523).
O. L. : .. I couldn't find that Mr. Stevenson you gave me a message to.
What's his name 1" [po 514.]
"'Vlmt, little Minnie Ste,oensun. Don't you know his name is Henry 7
Yes, Henry Stevenson. Mother in spirit, too, not far away. Give me that
watch. [Trying to open it.] Here, open it. Take it out of its case. Jerry
I18YS he took his knife once and made some little marks up here with it, "I'
here near the handle, near the ring. some little cuts in the watch. Look at
it afterwards in a good light And you will see them."
[There is a little engra\'ed hmdSCApe in the place described. but some of
the Rkylines have been cut ullllecc8Il.'\rily deep, I think, apparently
out of mischief or idlenesso Certainly I knew nothing of this, and
had never before had the watch out of its case.-O. J. L. See also
p. 5~8.]
Sitt;'/tfJ No. 48. 1\'uoII, December 26th.
Present: O. L., A. L., M. L., and Bl-iSCoe (taking notes).
"Hn! How are you, Captain 1 You are all right. What have you
done with Aunt Anne's ring 1 Well, give it to me. I told her all about
that. Sho was vory much pleased that you had kept it all that while. Very
good thing, w!\Sn't it? She said that she was vel'1 sorry that Charley ate
the bird-the chicken-and mado himself sick. He has had a trouble with
his stomach. Her Charley. LMentioned also near end of Sitting No. 46.]
And he has been troubled for some little time. The bird made him sick.
Some kind of bird. Quite sick. It troubled him a good deal. You write
and ask him. But it is so. You will find it was. He will tell you. [He i,.
ill Canalla, but I have \V1"itten to find out.] (See note, p.520.) Was a little
foverish with it. That's what is the matter."
Digitized by Google
Ce1'tain Phenomena of Trance. 519
o. L.: "Anything else?"
"Not particularly, and if you ask you will flDd it so. I tell you this
because you don't know it, and that is the kind of thing you like."
After some vague talk and some remonstrance at the number of persons
present, Phinuit began referring to clerk (who continued taking notes at a.
distance), saying:-
••He has the blues, that little fellow[no]; he is thinking of goingaway, and
lie will go soon to another part of the world. [Was thinking of it some years
ago.] Your brother. has had a tooth out. [True.] Your aunt ~:= told me
that. [Name wrong.] She's with me; you don't know her. Your grandmothel·
is a nice old lady. First nsme is Emma; she's in spirit. [Name of gmnd-
mother was Fanny.] You tell him to 8Sk his mother. Who is George Edward
H. 1-he hurt his hand, that fellow you (Briscoe) saw at the party, right
through palm, had it sprained. Your brother knows him.too. [Don't recog-
nise this at all.] You were at a party talking to a fair girl [incorrect], and
this gentleman, George Edward, is connected with her, and a brother Fred.
[No notion of all this.] You look it up, you'l"8 too busy now. . . •
(Still referring to clerk.) That fellow's name ia Ed. . . ." (Went on
about Uncle Jerry and other things. . . . And then:) "There seems
to be some of that fellow's friends ahout here whom I can't avoid. There's I\.
lot, and I can't get things straight. You will have to let me talk to him and
get all his influence, and then I will talk to the rest of you. 1 can't help it.
Get out. You don't mind me, do you 1"
[Exeunt o. L., A. L., and M. L.]
(Clerk now came and took one hand, taking brief notes with the other.}
" Your relations make me get mixed; they confuse me when I'm talking
to the Captain, so if 1 lllention anyone belonging to you you must tell me, that
we may keep things straight. There's all old lady ill the spirit talking to me,
and her influence disturbs llle. [Grandmother died 1\ few years ago.] Ask
your brother if he don't know those people at party, and that fellow who
hurt his hand, George Edward H., and he's got a brother Fred. You have
a cousin Charley [true] that stops in your home [no, his brother used to], and
8 cousin named Harry. [True.] There are six ill your family, four boys and
two girls. [Correct.] The sister is Minnie. [Correct.] She is cranky, stupi<l
sometimes [true], but she will grow out of that. Your mother has a pain in
her head sometimes. [No.] Minnie is musical. [Not psrticularly.] One brother
writes 8 great deal. [I do myself.] Your Dame is Ed. [Correct.] Your gmnd-
mother keeps calling Ed. You ask about those people 1 told you of, and
you will find it's true. [Have made diligent inquiries ineffectually.] 1 want
the Captain. See you, Captain, that fellow's straight. Now, then, Alfred
and Marie. Got straightened out a little bit 1 That's all right. Here•
.Alfred, I've got to talk to you. All the rest skip."
[All retire but A. L.]
[He then gave Alfred the lll\me and general descriJ,>tion of the lady
to whom he had quite recently becollle engaged, With some detail!! of
her fl~mily, the latter not without some groping; the Christian namc
of the lady (Winifred) was written on paper without any groping.
Then l'ncle Jerry WI\." represented as speaking and giving good
advice, also 8."\ying he had been to France after an illness [which I
Digitized by Google
·520 A Record of Obse't'vati.on8 of
find is true]. Then some predictiullII and a lot of unverifiable
talk about things in general (liouIs and IIpirita, &C.), with the
following assertions concerning Phinuit hinllltlif :-]
" I h&\'e been 30 to 35 years in spirit, I think. I died when I was ';0 of
lel'rollY, l'ery disagreeable. I had been to Australia and Switzerland. My
wife'll name was Mary Latimer. I had a sister Josephine (p. 495). John was
my father's name. I studied medicine at Metz, where I took my degree at 30
yeal'!l old, married at 35. Get someone to luok all thill up, and take pains
.about it. Look up the town of --, also the Hotel Dieu in Paris. I was
horn in Marseilles, am a Southern French gentleman. Find out a woman
named Carey. Irish. Mother Irish, father French. I had compassion on
her in the hOlipital. My name is John Phinuit Schlevelle (or 1Clavelle), but
I Wall always called Dr. Phinuit. Do you know Dr. Clinton Perry '/ Find
him at Dupuytren, and this woman at the Hotel Dieu. There's a street
named Dupuytren, a great street for doctors. . This is my busin_
now, to communicate with those in the body, and make them belie\'e our
exilltence."
~OTE added &ptembu, 1890.-Conccrning the episode recorded at the
beginning of the above sitting: I wrote to a coullin who had emigrated last
October to join her brother (the .. Clmrley" referred to) in Manitoba,
.asking her if he had eaten any particulnr bird ahout Christnll\S time which
had <1iflRgreed with him. Only recently hal'e I got full information on the
lIuhject, the unsportamanlikc character of the act possibly, but more likely
the difficulty of I'el~lisillg any IICnse in the inquiry, being respollsible for some
of the <1elay. The evidence now obtained is all folluws:-
.. The boys shot a prairie hen as they were coming home one night, near
the hegillning of December, out of lICMun, when there Wall a fine for killing
thetie 'hir<1s. So we had to hide it. It was hung for about 1\ fortnight, and
a few days before Christmall we eat it, Charley eating most. The bird didn't
nmke him ill, but he was ill at the time, having the grippe. He went to
town either that night or next day, and was certainly worse when he
l·etunled. "
SittiHY No. 49. A/tel'//(J()II II/ Dcr.elllbu 26t11, 1889.
Present: O. L., alone; afterwlu-os )1. L. also.
[.·\.ftel' a good <1eal of Phinuit cOIll'ersation, O. L. trying to get some
factti within hill own knowledge only, without any definite IIUCCCSII, Uncle
Jerry was reported as being on the scene, and O. L. took notell.]
[Dr. P.] "Oliver and -- started for school one day and plsyed by the
wny. Their mother followed and gave them a tuning, and kept them in all
the time. He had a suit of white clothes with a little check in them, your
father ha<1. They built up a kind of Rce-saw, and tore his coat, a11<1 for that
hc got two days' hard stully. [Can't verify any of this. It ill true that their
mother was somewhat of a martinette.] The boys bought a fishing
tackle, went out in a hoat, and got caught in a storm. The aunt, your
father's siRter, Fanny, she IIcreened Oliver out of it, and dried his clothes
for him. [It is truo that Fanny waR the ullfIf fliRter, anll was lIufliciently
older to make this epiRode likely.] JelTY went to Paris anll wrote back
to Boh ahout the thing!! he ha<1l1oen and done. He and Bob plsnne<l one day
Digitized by Google
eel'ta'in Phenomena of Trance. 521
to go I\way together to another part of your country; they were gone se\'eral
monthK, their mother begging and imploring them to come home. Soon after'
this she WM taken ill. [None of this true of J, and B. May have been true
of two other brothers. Something of the kind WM, but cannot fix it.] Don't
forget the ring, Mk him about that, and about swimming the creek. He's
got a piece of statuary there, Jerry bought it himself with his own
money. A man with a 8I\ck O\'er his shoulder, his arm to his side,
with elbow projecting, looking down seriously, a dog by his side. [Cannot
verify this.] Your encle Robert's in London. [True.] He, Bob, ami-
your father went to soe the aniDll\ls in London, and that was another fright.
your grsndmother got. Your uncle had an encle Richard. Jerry wanted to
go into the jewellery business [nonsense], but that slumped through. When
Jerry went to school he drew Ollt plans. One WM a lawyer. There was a ROrt
of break-up in the family. Have you seen an old desk, an old-fMhioned desk
high up in the house, at the hack 1" [None of this is any good. There is an
old desk of his, but that's a matter of course.]
O. L. : "No. Do YOIl remember the fall you spoke of 1" [See many
previous sittings; but see also pp. 528 and 557.]
" I fell, I fell Ileal' a building, and never WM well after it. We were
riding at the time, and I hit my head, and all the facts about that I can't
remember. I WM thrown, and I remember the building just M I turned
round it. Collision. (1 Coliseum.) Narrow escape. )Iy head troubled
me a good deal, and I hurt my leg and my back and my head. Shook me up
all over. I WM not senseless. The blindness came from the fall. I can se&
fast enough now."
NOTE.-This is, I believe, correct, but within my knowledge. I remember
having been told that he had a severe fall from his horse when
middle-aged; it injured his spine, and gradually total blindnesR.
came on. I have no recollection of him except blind. I feelM if I
had a dim recollection of having been told that it WM near the
Coliseum that he fell, but do not know that it WM so.
" Bob's the BOul of honour. He does a lot of good, and he'll do more
good yet. He's troubled with rheumatism a little. His thoughts are con-
fused, and his memory is troubled. He doesn't remember quite so well_
[All quite true.] Does he reme.~ber the Smith's field and the Smith boys 1"
" No; I'm BOrry to say he does not." [See, however, pp. 527 and 557.]
"And I had stacks and stacks of papers of all kinds, and I don't know
where they are. I think Bob hM them. [YeK, he has.] Robert is trying
to read something now. [5.20.] Whatever is it 1 [It is true that he was
trying to refresh his memory by looking up old papers of Uncle Jerry's;
but precise time unverified.] Jerry says, 'Oliver, I 1\111 not dead, and if
they think BO they're miHtaken. I am living, and conscious of you all.·
[Here I handed in a chain.] This is Oliver's [i.e., my father's: true].
He's here now. I couldn't do for you, my BOn, as I would like to. Fate was
against me, too, for a time." (Here WM an interval of unnoted things.)
(Then came Ml'H. Lodge, and Phinuit began to diagnose her illness,
which he did very exactly, and to prescribe for her. The prescription
was wild carrot infuHioll and laudanum lotions, with precise and
minute instructions. The prescriptions have done good. The.
complaint hM been a long-standing one. See also p. 546.)
Digitized by Google
522 .A Rec(}l'd oj' Obse1'vations of
(Here she handed in a fruit knifc.) "This is William's. [Right.' Your
mother has got his watch and chain. [Right.] She ,,·ill never get married
again. She has a picture of him. They talked nhout having it copied."
[Right.]
M. L. : .. What sort of picture 1"
.. It's a painting of him."
M. L. : "Who did it 1"
.. Wait a bit, I'll ask him. Oh I see, you done it yourself. [True, and he
used to be pleased with it.] He sayll 80. It's a good one. You're a good
little girl, Mary. I say, do you know who Isabella is 1."
M. L. : "Yes, yes."
"Oh, it is splendid; you never saw her sad. Though she had her
troubles, too."
M. L. : "She had, indeed."
.. She is as beautiful a.~ ever, and as pure as the Bnow. She's a good
creature. I tell you, you dear thing, to be as brave 311 I was-always do the
best you can ; do what your conscience tells you. Take that advice from
Isabella. Oh, what larks we had! Oh! (Laughing allover.) Do you
remember Clara 1 (Laughing again, and jigging about in chair.) I'll sing for
you. Why, Mary dear, who ever thought to see you again like this, and
Oliver too 1 Oh, such fun! What shall I do for you now I'm here 1"
M. L.: "Sing UII one of your songs."
" Shall I , You used to sing and play some yourself. Your papa and I
have more fun than you could shake a stick at. Mary, how fat you are !
Where are your crimps? (Feeling hair.) You used to crimp it. [True.]
Getting lazy, eh 1 Well, this is fun to see you again. Oh, I do feel so happy.
(Dr. P. chuckling.) She whistled, and away she goes. I never saw such
a merry girl as that, never. How happy she is. Mary, it's about time
you brightened up."
[This extraordinary episode was very realistic, and represented our
memory of a bright.dispositioned aunt by marriage of my wife's.
See also next sitting, p. 524.]
"Captain, Henry is at 127, Regent.street, Philadelphia. I couldn't get
it right before. I thought it was Australill (p. 513). You write to him there."
O. L. : "I certainly will."
[I have, but felt sure there could be no Regent-street in Philadelphia.
Since then my brother has written from New York.]
" Alfred's gone to see Dick. [He had gone to stay with another brother.
not Dick; Mm. Piper knew where he had gone.] You think I'll raise Old
Harry about Nelly, don't you 1"
" How do you mean 1"
" Make difficulties with the other brothers. [I had that idea about Dick.]
Has your Dr. William asked about the horse 1"
[Dr. C.'s name is William, but I know nothing about a horse in
connection with him.]
., Here's a spirit named Thomas; who's that '" O. L. : "I don't know."
.. Do you have to do with a college, Captain 1" O. L. : "Yes."
"Well, this one had to do with it. He was talking to me when I was a.t
that young fellow."
Digitized by Google
Certain Pltenom,en(, of Trance. 523
o. L. : "What's his name 1" .
"It's not Edmund nor Frank. Jamcs, Juhn. No. He's ,"cry anxious
to talk to you, trying all he can to speak to you, seems awfully pleased to see
you again j but he can't speak plain."
(Suspecting whom it might be, I got out a photograph and asked), " Is
that he 1"
"Yes, that's him. A vessel burst, and he went out suddenly. [True.]
His blood stopped immediately. I wanted to go, he says. 1\ly head wasn't
(luite level." [His death was said to be due to the bursting of a vessel in his
head, but I knew that the cause of this was a pistol-bullet.]
o. L. : "Ah, I thought so."
.. 'L'1lo, here's two come for him. However did that man conle here'
They have taken him back. He is not with us yet. He saw you and burst
<lut. "
(Mrs. L. handed in a hat.) "That's William's. [True, p. 504.] That's my
bat. Glad to see it. Mary's managed the place splendidly. [True.] There
is one of the boys there with her."
M. L.: "Yes j little V."
"I see him, dear little chap. Where's my stick 1 Yes, that's it. You
helieve I'm bere, don't you 1 You remember my sitting in that big chair
with arms to it, and my feet propped up, when I was ill 1" . [This is correct.
His feet were propped and rolled up, ill a special big chair.]
" And I used to get up and walk about with this stick. The other was
~rooked, with a big handle. That was the last one. [True. This" other "
stick has been verified, and it is the last one. It has a large knob. We did
nut know of it.] (Umbrella brought in.) That's my umbrella. That's the
handle j yes. I remember the things well. "
The next sitting is chiefly one with OUI· neighbours, Mr. and Mrs.
Thompson. Mr. Thompson's mother is an old Quaker lady, Ihing on
the Cheshire side of the 1\lersey. In this sitting 1\lrs. Pipel· mentioned
·edl 1\lr. T.'s brothers and sisters by name, as well as his wife and
children---except the third daughter, Sylvia, who was dismissed as a
boy in an earlier sitting, a child in robust health. 1\lrs. Piper had given
the Thompsons a pre\ious sitting, see pp. 508 and 518, where" Ike"
and " Susie" are Mr. and Mrs. T. (See also pp. 540, 544, 553.) They
-cannot, for evidential purposes, be considered as strangers. At the
same time, although we have known them well for eight years, many
of the things said were unknown to us. Some of the note-taking and
most of the annotations are by 1\11-. Thompson.
Sitting No. 50, and last offirst sel"iu. Erellillg of DtunWeI· 26th, 1889.
Present: o. L., Mr. and Mrs. Thompson; and later 1\1. L. also.
(I handed in a fresh watch, and Phinuit sai(l it had been my father's.
[True.] He also seized the chain, hitched the two together, and felt about for
something to go on at the other end j trying onwatch-key, but not beingsatisfie(l
with it, and groping for some time. [See No. 75, p.536.] Then he repeated),
"Henry is now at 127, Regent-street, Philadelphia j that's so. [No.] (To
Mrs. T.): How's Ted 1 [Her son.] Yuur mother sends her love, and
Digitized by Google
5240 A Record of 01J8e1'vatwns of
wants to know where hel' two rings are 1 She had two. [Don't know about.
rings.] She has the cap on, and hair parted on one side. [Correct.] Your
mother sends her love to you, Susie. [Usual name.] She takes care of a
little bit of a haby in the spirit that belonged to you. It puts its hand
up like that. It hardly lived with YOll at all i but it lives in the spirit.
Your mother takes care of it, and your sister in the spirit. [Mrs. T. 's
child, a boy, died in birth. Mr. T. happens to have had one previous
Hitting with a medium, viz. Miss }t'owler, 14 years ago, and curiously
she, too, asserted that this child was under the care of Mrs. T.'s mother.]
Emily is in the body. [Mrs. T.'s sister i right.] (To Mr. T.): Ted is a
great deal with your mother i she says, 'My poor boy,' and often thinks
about him. [An unlikely expression for Mrs. T., sen., but she does often
think about him.] He is studying still, and writes a great deal, and helps
a lot of young fellow1l. [He was a promising medical student at Edinburgh.
and died just after taking his degree.] Don't let them think I am dead.
Tell mother and Fanny I am alive." [Fanny is his surviving sister (p. 518)].
(To Mrs. L. ): "Aunt Izzie wanta to talk to you. [See previous sitting.
p. 522. 'Isabella' i Aunt Izzie was her familiar name.] Shall I sing to you 'I'
What would you like 1 You have not been well lately. Are you glad to hear
of Aunt Izzie 1 I could almost come back and die over again to see you. You·
tell Mary that her sister Isabel still lives i tell her she has done nobly i tell
her William and I are together. That lazy gardener! [This message is.
exceedingly intelligible. The Mary referred to is my wife's mother, recently
widowed, and left with a house and garden to manage in Staffordshire.
"Aunt Izzie" had been staying with her quite recently, at a time when the-
gardener WI\S troublesome.] (Then the voice and manner changed, as in
Sittings 40 and 47.) Don't give up a good thing, Lodge. • . . Who ill
here 1"
O. L. : "This is my wife."
'" How do you do. Mrs. Lodge 1 (Shaking handH.) I remember hal'ing
tea with you once." [The ostensible speaker, Mr. E., had done so.]
O. L. : "Mr. and Mrs. Thompson."
"Yes, I remember you, I think. [They had once met.] Good-bye.
Lodge i don't divulge my secrets" (p.493).
O. L. : "No, all right i good.bye."
(Dr. P. again, to Mr. T.): "Ted is asking about George. Don't forget to
tell him I asked about him, and send my love. [George is a brother.] (To
Mrs. T.): Susie, I don't like Alice and Maud i friends of on(of your girls.'~
[Don't know them.]
Mr. T. : "Can you tell me about my other sister 1"
"Sarah-no-Eliza-Maria-that's it. She's all right. We are together
and happy. That's Ted's sister and Ike's sister. She and Ted and father
are all together. She teaches entirely, and is very religious. But she
doesn't know you (Mrs. T.) in spectacles. (Took them off.) That's right;
now I know you."
[Remarkably correct description of Mr. T. 's sister, Eliza Maria, who die(l
Zl years ago. Mrs. T. (then unmarried) did not then wear
spectacles, but knew her well.l
(Tn Mrs. T.): "I see your father, mother, and two sisters. [These have
died.] I am not acquainted with your father. I am going to be candid, and
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenom,ena oJ T1'a1we. 525
can't tell you what he does. I will see if I can find him. (A pause.
Laughing.) Your father is covered from top to toe with paint. His room i"
covered with pictures all round. We have everything of that kind with us.
He ill fro happy-wouldn't come back for l\Ilything."
[Mrs. T. 's father made painting and art his entire hobby for all time
spared from business, and regretted not being able to live for it.]
,, Your father says he is going to take charge of one of your girls, and
teach her bow to paint. Theosophy it is. If I don't speak true may I never
llpeak again. He will 888ist her spiritually-inspire her. [Mrs. T. 's eldest
daughter Theodora is very fond of painting.] The other one is going to take
up music-the dark·haired one. [Incorrect. She has no musical faculty-
she paints, too, a little.] (To Mrs. T.): Your sister curled her hair in a very
fUIIDY way (indicating). [Correct.] Maris, your sister, I see her. [Correct.]
Maria sends her love to Emily. [A living sister.] What a romp you used to
be. Here, Ike, I wish you could hear all your people have to say. They all
talk at once."
Mr. T. : "How very incollSiderate."
" So would you and your brothers, if you hadn't spoken to your mother
for 20 years. [Time about right.] Eliza-Maria and Ted and your father all
think of you a great deal. Fanny is very good to mother, always with her.
[Correct.] I'm sorry to say, Ike, I','e some bad news for you. You are going
to lose a dear friend-not a relative, but a good friend, rather suddenly within
the next four months. [Not happened yet.] What are all those little bottles
I see about you 1"
Mr. T. : "I hsve none on me. "
" No, but I see a great lot. Aconite, Belladonna, Mercurius, Nux Vomica,
and the del-il knows what else. [These and many other drugs Mr. T. uses in
his business.] (Mrs. L. handed a piece of hair.) Too weak to tell you now,
and it's too old. It belonged to one of these spirits." [So far correct.]
(0. L., ghing a letter) "Good-bye, doctor. You are going to this
gentleman."
(Dr. P., putting it to head) "That's from Walter. I know him. [Yes,
MI'. Leaf, but Mrs. Piper knew she was going there.] Cap'n, I'm going to
leave you. God bless you and keep you in His holy keeping. God bless
you, Susie, Ike, Marie, and Captain! Cap'n, I hate to leave you, but I've
got to go.. An revoir, au }'erQi,'! Marie, I've got to go, but not for long;
hope to see you soon again. Cap'n, speak to me again. GOod-bye, good-bye,
good-bye.
End of the Fi"lft &/'its of Lioorpool Sittillgs.
NOTES TO THIS SERIES OF SITTINGS.
My maiu object in this series has been to discriminate between
unconscious thought-transfel-ence and direct clairvoyance, by obtaining
information wholly unknown to anyone present. Most of the com-
munications purporting to come from my uncle Jerry answered per-
fectly to this description, and the only difficulty was to get them
verified. As indicated in Note E, p. 516, my uncle Robert (sur-
viving twin brother of 'Uncle Jerry) has verified the snake's skin, but
2 0
Digitized by Google
A Record of Observations of
/ / he could only remember indistinctly the episode of swimming the creek
/ and nearly getting drowned, on which stress was laid by Phinuit (first
/ mentioned p. 503), and had no recollection of some other incidents.
But he was good enough to write to the only other surviving
brother of those concerned, living in Cornwall, and by this means to
obtain for me, what by no other means I should have been likely to
obtain, the following document, which I copy and print in full. The
communication from U nele Robert to Uncle Frank was a bald list of
questions, not likely to excite pseudo-memory. The family WIlS an
enormous one, and my father was one of the youngest members of it.
He was born in 1826; his father at the time being 61, and U nele Jerry
being 16. The family left Barking for Elsworth in 1838 or 1839. I
was born in 1851.
Statement made by U nele Frank to Uncle Robert, received by me
February 2nd, 1890 (see end of No. 80, below, p. 542):-
" About the summer of the year 1828, I am not sure of the date within &
year or two, a large party (those forming it as far as my memory serves me
being Messrs. Wm. Whitbourne, James Sharpe, Henry Sharpe, Fnmk Whit-
bourne, my brothers Robert, Jeremiah, Charles, and myself, and some others
whom I cannot recollect without help)left Barking,80me inHenrySharpe's boat
and others walking to lIford, the object being to beat the River Rodin from
IIford to Barking, and catch a large lot of fish in nets arranged for the pur·
pose at the Six Gates. We did beat the river, wading where depth of water
admitted, and swimming the deep parts, the non-swimmers walking along'
.the banks of the river. The whole thing was a failure, for we caught only a
very few fish, and concluded that they had managed to slip past us on the
journey. On arriving at Barking the elders of the party went home to bet
dry clothes, and the young ones commenced the usual rough play. Jerry and
I were larking together on the tailboard of the water-mill; one pushed tho
other and sent him down the slippery platform, and then there was a struggle
together, which resulted in both being sent into the mill-stream, which was
running fast owing to the six gates being open. There was nothing left but
to swim with the stream to a bank about three or four hundred yards off.
We had all our clothes on except shoes and stockings.
The quays at Barking were crowded with people, men, women, and
children, drown there to see a smack launched. These good people made a
great noise, some cheering the swimmers in the mill pool, others screaming
"They will be drowned," "They will be drowned." One of them, viz., a
Mr. Smith, a publican, looked over the quay; I saw his face quite plain and
heard him say, •"That's the odds if they are, it's only two of them d-d young
Lodges." As we were swimming our best my hat washed or got off and W3.'i
left behind a yard or two, and as soon as I missed it I swam back aud
recovered it, much to the amusement of the onlookers. We got all right to
the landing-place and even thought of endeavouring to 8wim back again
against the stream.
Jerry had a rifle such as you describe (p. 515), at the Palladium, but I
[know] nothing about it. I was only home once while he was at the Palla<liunl,
and then only for a very short time.
Digitized by Goo~
Oertain Phenomena of T'l'ance. 527
I remember nothing of the snake skin.
I know nothing of his making any calculations, by wheels or otherwise.
I remember his having an old repeater-how he came by it I do not
know-it was often requiring the watchmaker, yet Jerry seemed to value it
very much.
I never recollect a photo with you and Jerry together (p. 503).
I recollect there was a field at Barking called Smith's field. I think it
was the field at the top or upper part of Glenny's Part, and bounded part
of the pond we used to fish in. It was half field and half garden (p. 517 ;
see also p. 556).
The only cat-killing I can remember is our brother Charles killing Mrs.
Cannon's cat and burying it behind one of the lilac trees (pp. 517,521,541).
Once more, I must repeat that the importance attaching to the
references made in the sittings to these events must depend very much
on the view taken of the genuineness of the trance and of Mrs. Piper's
honesty. Given that she is a cheat, she must be supposed a chest of
exceptional ability and with the command of very superior assistance ;
and it is just conceivable that such a one, by sending a skilled agent
down to Barking and interviewing the oldest inhabitants, might hit
upon someone who as a boy had witnessed the creek episode. The
task does not strike me as an easy one, but possibly it might be done.
It is impossible to suppose that Mrs. Piper herself made effective
inquiries, because her proceedings all the time in England were well
known, and she was under bargain to sit regularly every day.
Having obtained her information she would proceed to lead up to it by
frequently mentioning my uncle who had a fall; just in the way that
Phinuit did. It was doubtless this frequent reference that caused me
to think of sending for the watch and getting more details. The cat
incident, and the rifle, may be dismissed as shots; and I suppose the
watch-scratches and the snake skin can be eluded somehow.
So much a sceptic might he allowed; though in the fa.ce of what
seems to me such extreme improbabilities that only the improbability of
any other conclusion enables one to face them with patience.
But when the interviews with strangers are contemplated in addi-
tion, interviews which compel assent to some abnormal powers, and
thereby remove any necessity for the exercise of an elaborate and
costly system of imposture, then I confess that for my own part I am
even more sceptical of the power of any human being to obtain the
information by ordinary means and under the given circumstances
than I am of the possibility of the possession by the human mind of
latent or nascent powers hithel'to only obscurely recognised and imper-
fectly developed. (See Appendix, p. 555.)
Further Notes. September, 1890.
There are one or two further annotations which I am able now to
make.
'202
528 A Rec01'(l of Obsel>t'atio1l8 of
With regard to the marks 011 Uncle Jerry's watch (p. 518), it appears
from a letter below that it is unlikely that, he made them himself,.
and accordingly if any importance is to be attached to their
detection by Dr. Phinuit inside the certainly unopened case, it is.
probably of the directly percipient or clairyoyant order, rnther than, as
he represented it, of information receh'ed and transmitted as a message.
The same letter likewi'*l casts some doubt on the importance of the-
"fall from a hOl'Se" so frequently mentioned (e.g., p. 521). I clearly
remember having been told when a boy of Uncle Jerry having had a
serious fall which inflicted some injury to the spine, and was the-
probable cause of his blindness. Hence it would appear likely that
this item may ha"e been extrncted by Dr. Phinuit from my mind~
unless further information confirms its position as a really influential
event. (See also notes at end of Second Series, p. 557.)
The letter is from my cousin, eldest son (If Uncle Robert, senior t~
me, and much more intimate with the London branch of the family
than I eyer was.
E.dract from letter.
Great Gearies, Dford, Septcflwer 16th, 1890.
As you wished me to semI you notes of anything that struck me in the
report of Mrs. Piper's sittings-here goes.
Uncle .Jerry died on the 12th March, 1869. 1 have always understood
that his blilldne88 was attributed to locomotor ataxy, and 1 never heard of his
having 80 bad a fall from his horse as you mention in your notes. He had a
slight fl,ll once in Rotten Row, 1 think, and 1 remember his telling me that
as a piece of affectation he appeared in the Row the next day with one foot
in a slipper, having spmined hisllonkle.
1 remember his having a rifle and sword which he kept in his business
desk at the Palladium, as he at that time belonged to a rifle club (it was long
before the Volunteer movement), and perhaps that is what is meant by
.. playing at soldiers." 1 do not remember any snake skin (p. 516).
The marks on the watch 1 do not think were made by him, as I cannot
remember his having a repeater until he lost his sight. The tenu .. little
shaver" (p. 503) fits hill method of expre88ion to a T. The swimming t.be-
creek, &c., &c., have been so well deacribed by the skipper that 1 need
only say 1 knew of its having been done from both (I believe) of the-
perfomlers.
(Signed) RoBBRT LoDGB.
The other incident in fayour of direct clairvoyance and against
thought-trnnsference of any recognised kind, ,·iz., the experiment
contrived by l\1r. Gonner (pp. 462 and 487), has had its value rather-
strengthened by further inquiry and by interview with the ladies
concerned in London. It was a carefully arranged experiment.
planned by him and me together in Liverpool, and carried out in &
satisfactory manner through the kind aid of his relations in :LQndon_
Digitized by Google
Certctin Phenom,ena of Trnnce. 529
'The problem was to remove thought-tmnsference to as many orders of
~-emoteness as possible. He therefore wrote to his sistel', Miss Gonner,
giving hel' full particulars of what was wanted, Their mother was to be
requested to decide on and do something uncommon at a specified hour,
without letting lIiss Gonner know what it was; neither was she to
have any inkling whatever as to a I'eason for the request, nor to know
that it was connected with her son. I find that all this was scrupu-
lously done, With the aid of Miss Ledlie (the lady correctly described
.and named as "Annie" by Phinuit), who likewise knew nothing
whatever as to reasons, the mother was prevailed upon to accede
to the request; and she accordingly decided to go out under
perfectly unlikely circumstances, accompanied by Miss Ledlie, both
ladies being very much puzzled to account for the singular and vague
request on the part of :Miss Gonner. The latter lady, who was the
only one of the tl'io who had any idea of the reason, purposely
.absented herself fl'olll the house before any decision was made as to
what should be done. The dli.ving round the park on a wet Saturday
morning, though sufficiently incongruous to astonish even the cab-
man, was an unfortunately passive kind of pel-fonnance to select; but
considering the absence of every kind of infonnation or clue to the
I'eason for doing anything, the wonder is that anything whatever was
<lone. Miss Ledlie reports that aft~r lIiss Gonllel' had left the house
.she and Mrs, Gonner decided what to do, and a vehicle was sent for.
Just about 11 she ran upstairs to see if )frs. HOlmer was ready,
.and saw her come out of her I'oom to a landing cupboard, take a box
.out of it, put it on a ledge, open it and take out a muff, very much as
.described by Phinuit half an hour later. She had hill' clo.c'tk and
things on then, and the cloak is troublesome to hook, so that there
would be a good deal of apparently fixing things round the neck. The
taking up and looking at the photogmph would almost certainly
he done befol'e going out, though it was not actually seen. The
'" taking up a pencil to writ~," and the "brushing something," if by
"something" is meant a garment, are unlikely actions. Although the
success was far fl'om complete, Phinuit distinctly left us in Liverp(xll
with the impression that "going out" was the thing selected to be
.done.
The episode of Miss Le(Hie's hair not having heen cut short, when
)[r, Gonner, having heen told in fun that it had, felt dissatisfied with
Phinuit's reply (p, 489) implying that there was nothing special to say
~'tbout its length-dissatisfaction which he expressed to me,-is likewise
·good as against ordinary thought-transfel'lmce,
The incident at the beginning of Sitting :No. 48, about" Charley
.eating a bird," is also rather striking, I <lid not think much of it at
>the time because it seemed an unlikely thing to get dist.inctly verified;
530 .A Record of Observati0'fl8 of
but, as recorded in the note at end of sitting (p. 520), special cir-
cumstances connected with it happen to have made it a definite
incident clea.rly remembered.
Second Serie8.
After an interval, during which we went abroad, Mrs. Piper
visited us again on her way back to the States. She was now not so
well in health, apparently rather fatigued by her stay in London,.
which she imagined did not suit her, and beginning to long to get.
home again. On the whole I think the lucidity of "Dr. Phinuit" was
less than it was during the earlier series ; the communications from
my uncle, for instance, add very little to the facts previously given;
and the" George Wilson" episodes, referred to on p. 461, which at the
time seemed likely to furnish satisfactory positive evidence in favour of
clairvoyance, have turned out in the opposite sense, as the following
letter clearly indicates :-
Letterfrom Mr. WilBOn, abroad.
April 2nd, 1890.
My DBAR LoooB,-Your letter with enclosure reached me as I was
leaving -- and I could do nothing till I arrived here. And now, after
consideration, I think I shall say but little.
The statements made through the medium fall into two classes: (1) Th080
which relate to matters known to you. (2) Those you could not know-as.
for example, either my present circumstances or my past life. What is said
under the fonner head is, as you would see, more or 1888 correct. What is
said under the latter is entirely incorrect. Were you here I would go into
detail, but as you have not the MSS. this could nut easily be done. On the
matter generally I pass no opinion. The evidence is too narrow.
And, in general, the kind of old man represented is the antipodes of the
dignified precise character of my father. He was calm and clear-headed,
hated all fUSB, and, like most of the Govenlment officials, avoided all publia
appearances. He detested bad grammar, and drew up Government papers
of almost painful accuracy.
Added &ptember, 1890.
Recently, my wife has suggested that some of the statements· seem to-
refer more probably to my grandfather, whose name was James, and who
was somewhat of a .. havering" old man, such as is represented. I am not
"ble to verify the statements from this point of view, but he did own hia.
house, and very likely made lOme additions to it [as stated on p. 543].
Subsequently I got him to return his copy of the evidence with
annotations, and these are transcribed into their appropriate places
below, beginning at p. 539.
During the second series of sittings my sister E. C. L., frequently
mentioned in the first series, was with us on a short visit, and ofteo.
Digitized by Google
Oe'rtain Plunomena of Trance. 531
took notes for me. There was a good deal of repetition of statements
made in the earlier series, and though I abbreviate the notes as much
as possible so as to print only the more apparently evidential portions,
I quote some of these repetitions in full, especially all those having
reference to my Uncle Jerry, because at this time a number of the
facts had not been verified, and some are still unverified. The letter
of partial verification from Uncle Frank to Uncle Robert, printed above,
reached me about the middle of the second series; and I read it to
Phinuit on the day it arrived, as reported below. Mrs. Piper arrived
from London on January 30th, and next day was held a sitting, which
numbers itself 71 in the entire English series.
Sitti119 No. 77. (First after it.terml.) Friday, Jamlary 3ut, 1890.
11 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.
Present: O. L., M. L, and, for first time, E. C. L
After recognitions and greetings, and saying that Myers had told him to
take care of the medium and not stay too long, he began sending messagea
about my sister, but speedily' became aware of someone present and recog-
nised her with "Hallo, by George, that's Nelly." [See p. 507, Note C.]
Then he pretended to carry on a one-sided conversation, as if talking to
other people about her, and presently reported that he was being asked to
prescribe for her. Then he broke oft' with, "Here, Captain, did you ask
Robert about Bwimming the creek 1"
O. L. : "Yea, I did, and he remembers something about it ; but he calls
it the pool, and says it was the other boYB that swam it."
"Ah, that's so. YeB, he'B right. I didn't remember quite exactly."
O. L. : "Do you know he can't remember about that ring 1 He never
knew you to wear a ring" [po 508].
" Yea, I 'did, but it was a long time ago. It's true, and he has got it
somewhere. There was a Btone in it. Did he remember about the skin 1"
O. L. : "Yea, he did."
"Oh, he remembered that. Well, isn't it a funny thing 1"
O. L.: " He remembers it, but doesn't Beem to have it now, and I have
not seen it" [po 516].
" Well, does he remember about the photographs; one of the pictures
standing and one sitting 1"[No. 44, p. 50'1.]
O. L. : "Yea, and I have seen them."
.. Aren't they queer 1"
O. L. : "Yea, and I've Been the tall hats on, which you mentioned ; but
it W8S not Uncle Robert that was photographed with you."
"No 1 Well it was a Robert. Robert something. Let me think. • . •
You will have to excuse me a bit, I call't recollect just now. Do you know
that Robert got hurt some time ago 1"
O.L.: "No."
" Yea, you do ; had a sick tum-had an attack, and has never been quite
the same Uncle Robert since."
O. L.: "YeB, that's so."
(Then a number ofcommunications purporting to be from the Bame perIODS
Digitized by Google
532 A ReC01'cl of Ob8ervatio'1I8 of
as were represented as sending messages in previous sittings, and to much
the same effect.)
O. L.: "We couldn't make out about those 'little wheels.' ..
"They were only Ijeals on insurance papera. He was trying to tell me
about them and I couldn't quite get his meaning; it was my mistake. You
know when they issue insurance papers to people there's a stamp-& seal- .
put on, and they looked like wheels. Did you ask about that old lady who
was with Uncle Robert 7 Who is she-quite an old lady?"
O. L. : "His wife, I suppose."
.. You must look these things up. And did you ask about that statue-
that marble thing t " [po 521J.
O. L. : "Yes, I did, but he can't remember it."
"'Well, that's stupid. He's got it, I tell you. You go there and huut
about the house and you'll find it. A little statue. And that ring, he has
got that somewhere, among my jewellery-what little I had. That's there,
too, somewhere" [pp. 508, 537].
O. L. : "Another thing Uncle Robert can't remember is 'Fido'" (p. 509).
"\Vhat, not remember the dog ~ \Vell, that's stupid. Smu will remem-
ber that. Ask Sam." [Knows nothing about it.]
O. L. : "And the cat; he denies the cat."
"Ask the rest of the boys about the cat. You remind RtJbert of the
Smith boys (p. 521), and then he will remember the cat."
O. L. : "I have, but he can't fix them."
"Come here, Siss (to Nellie). Your father wants me to look at you.
Oh, you're not at all right. You're wrong."
E. C. L.: "Oh, I'm pretty well. "
" You feel pretty well, but you're not. You haveu't a right circulation
II.t all. You are what they call anremic," &c. [Full medical details gi\""en
at considerable length, all true, and prescriptions practically identical with
what had been tried hy London II.nd Malvern consulting physicians. Then
advice given to stay with me instead of elsewhere, much 1\8 in Nos. 44 and
46, pp. 502, 513, 514, and 539.]
A sitting was attempted the same evening, but it failed. Mrs. Piper
could not go into the trance; so after 20 minutes' bial it WI\8 abandoned.
The next morning I had arrrmged for a friend to arrive at 11 o'clock.
Mrs. Piper was ready and waitulg in my study before that time, and I went
outside t,he gate to meet him. Unfortunately, 1\8 he entered, my wife met
him accidentally in the hall, and conversed for Rome two minutes while I
was in the study with Mrs. Piper. The door was ajar, and though I did
not overhear anything partiCUlar Mr8. Piper remarked that they should not
hI! talking within earshot like that. It is impossible to say how much sho
either consciously or unconsciously heard, and the incident pre\""ents me
from being able to consider Mr. Lund as an anonymous stranger, I\Ij I had
intended.
A seconclsitting ought always to be given to a stranger, as speedily uftcr
the first l1.li possible. A single experience of KO novel a kind can hardly Ol'cr
be AAtiHfactory. Shortnel!s of time prel'ented it in the present instance.
I began the sitting, to start Mrs. Piper ofi~ Mr. Lund Hitting pretty near.
Digitized by Google
Ce'riain P1Lenomena of Trance. 533
He was, however, called by Phinuit immediately, snd I sat at a desk and
took notes, except during part of the time when I was turned out. My notes
were afterwards handed to Mr. Lund, who drew up the report appended.
BUti/1{! No. 78. FebmanJ 1st, 1890. 11 (I.m.
Present: Mr. Lund, and most of the time O. L.
The sitting began by Mrs. Piper going off into the trance state alld very
:soon asking, "Where's Mr. London 1" She made seyeral attempts to
.arrive at my real name, Lund, \)ut failed, saying that she couldn't pronounce
it. She said I had passed through a lot of difficulties, was a rum fellow, had
11ad many troubles and trials, was a good man.
Here she asked Lodge to leave the room. She then told me accurately
what children I had-one boy who at this very time was absent and ill-
-eldest girl inclined to domineer-second girl deyoted to music-third girl
would need much watching. For myself, had had throat trouble [correct],
which would trouble no more. Head now the greatest fear. Surrounded by
people who wished to do me harm, especially one dark man [unknown]. Had
four sisters and one brother [correct]-one sister an angel, and one kind o(
fussy. (Then Lodge returned, and tried some experiment of his own: see
below.)
•• Do you know that man Wallace 1 Who is that 'I Do you call him
'Charles' 1 [Unknown.] You had a fire a little time ago---no-a long time
.ago. Some little thing got burnt." [Right, a carpet.]
Ultimately she said it was a carpet, after calling it drapery and tapestry.
•, Your lady had a pain in her back ; not yet very well; it made hera little
depressed ; tell her not to worry so, and don't be so devilish fussy. You tell
11er I like her. Your boy is not right. He took a cold-had fever, and now
11e's weak. He's picking up slowly; give him quinine. If you don't look
after him, be gets run down. He gets tired from }last illness. [True.] Just
now be's very miserable and looking at a book." (Tinle 12.45.)
Said she saw me writing-lots of paper, books, pampblet~, soft things,
manuscripts, all round me-pUblic man-talks to people.
" You write on these pamphlet things. That's what made your throat
bad. You lecture."
I asked, "Where is my wife now 1"
"She's brushing something-in this way (taking up bottom of ber dress).
She's got something on her head-going on a jOUl11ey-talkiIlg to some one,
and brushing down a cloak-like thing." (12.48.) [See notes.]
" Who is it you call Lira 1 the lady's sister [unknown]; Lorina, Eleanor,
Caterina, a sister, two names-one's Emma, a sister, connected with you
tbrough marriage 1 Do you know Tholll8B 1"
.. I'm Thomas," I replied.
"He'll know me-Thomas-Lon-Lund-Tom Lund. That's your sister
that's saying it."
She then referred back to the fire, and 88id a carriage was upset near me.
"Another gentleman and yourself were in it-a long wbile ago." [Can't
remember any such accident.]
Sbe then spoke again of my family and cbildren; spoke of Tom No. 2
[wrong], "with disposition and mind like his father."
Digitized by Google
534 A Record of Ob8ervations of
Here came in a reference to a brother of Dr.~Lodge, who had returned to
room.
She aaid I was away when my youngest sister passed out; not with her ;
a long way off. No chance to see her. She had blue eyes and brown hair-
a very pretty girl. Pretty mouth and teeth; plenty of expression in them.
She then tried to find the name; and went through a long list; at last aaid
it had .. ag " in the middle, and that's all she could find. She had changed •
great deal. She was much younger, and been in spirit a long time.
.. But it's your sister-Maggie-that's it-she BaYS you are brother Tom
-no, her name's 'Margie.' Too bad you were not at home-it was one
of the sorrows that followed Tom all his life. [Correct.] He'll never
forget it."
I aaid: .. Ask her how it was I wasn't there 1"
She aaid: .. I'm getting weak now-au reIJoir."
She sent me two mesaages at following sittings--one February lBt.
Evening:-
That I was studying for a degree, and had an illness, and that is why I
wasn't there when my sister passed out.
, "He went away to study, and having an illness couldn't come home.
That is what she remembers." [Incorrect.]
The next was on Sunday morning, February 2nd :-
"Where's the preacher-Tom 1 He's yelling away for all he's worth.
Two sisters and a brother [deceased] have gone to hear him. He's a very_
hl\l'd man. He would hardly believe me."
Then came some account of what I was Baying in my sermon (p. 541).
"Do you know who Joseph and Harriet are 1-Something in connection
with him." [Unknown.]
Notes by Mr. Lund.
With regard to my experience of Mrs. Piper, I do not feel that I IlaW
enough to form data for any aatisfactory conclusion. What impressed IDe
most. was the way in which she seemed to feel for information, rarely telling
me anything of importance right off the reel, but carefully fishing, and then
following up a lead. It seemed to me that when she got on a right tack.
the nen·ous and ullcontrollable movement of one's muscles gave her the
signal that she was right and might steam ahead.
In some points she was entirely out of it-e.g., carriage accident-the
dauger01I3 cla'rk man-Joseph alld Harrkt-and especially, my style of
preaohing. Nothing could be a more ludi.rous caricature than this last.
In others, which I will name, she made statements which singularly
tallied with the truth-e.g., my son '!CaB ill, and my wife was going to see
him. I found that at the very time given she left the house with a cloak
on h~r ann, and /mIMed her drtM in the way imitated by Mrs. Piper.
Still I am bound to say that within earshot of Mrs. Piper-before the
sitting-I told Mrs. Lodge of my son's illness in Manchester, and my wife'~
proposed visit to him, and Mrs. L. addreBBed me by my '&ame of Lund.
It is quite true that a carpet was recently burnt at our house; that my
Digitized by Google
Cel'iain Phen01nena of Trance. 535
wife worries over her duties too much for comfort and health ; that I live in
a room full of M88.
But without doubt the feature of this sitting was the reference to my
youngest sister, who died of diphtheria in my absence quite 30 years ago~
and whose death was a heartaching sorrow of many years. Not only did
she hit the name "Maggie," but even the pet name "Margie," which I
had quite forgotten. However, the reason afterwards alleged for my absence
at her death was quite wrong.
I accepted the trance condition on Dr. Lodge's authority; otherwise I
should have felt bound to test it.
Altogether there was such a mixture of the true and false, the absurd.
and rational, the vulgar commonplace of the crafty fortune-teller with
startling reality, that I have no theory to offer-merely the above facts. I
should require much more evidence than I yet have, and with much more
careful testing of it, to convince me (1) that Mrs. Piper was unconscious ;
(2) that there was any thought-reading beyond the clever guessing of a
person trained in that sort of work; (3) that there was any ethereal com-
munication with a spirit-world. I did not like the sudden weakness
experienced when I pressed my supposed sister for the reason of my absence
at her death, and the delay wanted for giving a reply.
That the subject is Cull of interest I admit, and I should like to pursue
it; but I am far from convinced at present that we have evidence on which
to build a new theory.
Apnl 26th, 1890.
T. W. M. Lt:ND, M.A.,
Chaplain of the School for the Blind, Liverpool.
To thil O. L. ada., the followin"J incident whic1~ occurred d1lrill9 thil /Sitting, but
1chich had 110 CO'llnectUnl 1Uith T. W. M. L.
(Chain handed to Phinuit by O. L., the package having been delivered
by hand to O. L. late the previous evening. He had just opened the package,
glanced at the contents, and hastily read a letter inside, then wrapped all up
again and stored them. The chain had been sent by the friend whom it baa
bel1n agreed to call George Wilson; it had belonged to his father.)
"This belongs to an old gentleman that passed out of the body- a nice
old man. I see something funny here, something the matter with heart,
paralytic something. Give me the wrappers, all of them." [i.e., The papers
it came in; a letter among them. Medium held them to top of her head,
gradually flicking away the blank ones. She did not inspect them. Sho
was all the while holding with her other hand Mr. Lund, who knew nothing
whatever about the letter or the chain.]
"Who's dear Lodge 1 Who's Poole, Toodle, Poodle 1 Whatever does.
that mean 1"
O. L. : "I haven't the least idea."
"Is there J. N. W. here 1 Poole. Then there's Sefton. S-e-f-t-o-n.
1'001, hair. Yours truly, J. N. W. That's it; I send hair. Poole. J.
N. W. Do you understand that 1"
. O. L. : "No, only partially."
Digitized by Google
.53G A Record of Observations of
.. Who's Mildred, Milly 1 something connected with it, and Alice; and
with him, too, I get Fanny. There's his son's influence on it."
[Note by O. L.-I found afterwards that the letter began "Dear
Dr. Lodge," contained the words .. Sefton Drive" and "Cook" 80
written as to look like Poole. It nlso snid "I send you some hair,"
nnd finishe{l "yours lIincerely, J. B. W. "; the "B" being not
unlike an .. N." The name of the sender was not mentioned in the
letter.]
Sittinf} No. 79. Febl'1U1/'y 1st, 1890. 7.30 p.m.
Present: O. L., E. C. L., and part of the time M. L.
" How are you, Captain? Didn't know I was going to seeyou. I didn't see
,you nfter I got your uncle's message. There was that gentleman here who
·does good. I caught up his sister nnd asked her. She snid he was studying,
fora degree, YOll know-taking a degree, nnd that took him away. He waa
:studying and had an illness, and that's why he wasn't there when she paased
out. He went nway to study, and having an illneBB couldn't come home.
'That's what she remembers. His nnme is Lund, her brother, Tom Lund, aml
he has lots of boys, girls, women, aud lllenl~JUl1(l him. He writes things and
then he preaches them. Tries to make people good. 'Vhat we used to call a
.clergyman, Khe says so, followed a good work." [See notes to previous
.sitting.]
.. Olh'er 8I\ys that's the thing he used to have (feeling old seal on my
chain), thnt was his on his chain, and when he called for it you didn't let
him have it."
O. L. : .. Yell, I know, I stupidly didn't know what was wanted t.hen."
{See Sitting No. 50, p. 523.)
.. You know Arthur (Which 1), all the Arthur there is. (Yea.) He haa
hnd 1\ sorrow." [rnverified yet.]
[Her;" M. L. entered with our Kecond boy, who had hegged to see Dr.
Phinuit, nIl the children being curious nhout the strange voice. Phinuit
immediately perso1ll\ted A. A. (pp. 468,470,514,516, 548).]
.. :Mary, bring him here. You dear little fellow. God bleBB you. That's
'what's his name. Oliver dear, lmve I lost Illy mcmory 1 That's Bunley, Bury
E, Bodie Brodie."
"Yell, Brodie." [The name Bunley is, as it happens, a natuml one to
·occur first to A.A.]
.. I remember you, my dear, when you were quite small-light hair-a
.chubby little thing. You don't remember Aunt Anne?"
"No."
"He wns the last, I think. Let's !lee, another older Imd another
,younger. Yes, three. One older and one younger."
M. L. : " Yes, there were three."
"But this WI\S lily boy. Olh'er, wasn't thl\t the last 1 Seems to me
.l\nother one t.hl\t I fll\w."
O. L.: .. Yell, three altogether."
" Another hoy. Three boys. One named after your father" (to M. L.).
1\1. L.: .. Yes," [The third is 1lI\med Alexander l\ll\rshalI, p. 493.]
., That was the last." (Further friendly remarks to Brodie about his le8-
Digitized by Google
Oertain Plte?lOme?/(( of T'I'£t11ce. 531'
lIOns and so on. Some frolll Phinuit speaking in his own persoll. Ending:)-
.. Glad to see thatfellow: done me good. Good-bye, Brodie. That's a piece to·
make a man of. Let him go. Oh, tell Sam, Jerry says he killed the cat.
It was accidental. [Nonsense.] That boy is a deep thinker. Can't Robert
remember the Smith boys 1" (p. 521).
"No."
.. It's stupid. And that ring, he fu"l(1 it on a chain, a chain with a sear
on it. Robert has got it."
O. L. : "Is it on a chain? "
"No, the ring has been removed, but it's in his surroundings. It'K not
on the chain now. Nell, how'l:! your heart? Smashed yet 1 "
E. C. L.: .. My what?"
.. No, no, it's ---has had his heart smashed." lConventionally true. J
(Then W. Tomkinson (p. 504) was represented as saying that M. L. (his.
step-daughter) had given him his umbrella, the one with a horse shoe at the
end of it, and that was why he was fond of it. 1\1. L. denied this, but it
was adhered to vigorously, and At lAst she admitted having chosen it for
him. This was at once clAimed M the same thing and M being the cause of
his feeling for it, the paying for it being of no consequence.)
(Next O. L. handed in "George 'Vilson's" chain, the same chain as was.
first tried at the morning sitting, p. 535.)
•• What the Old Harry have you there 1 Does that belong in your
family1"
O. L. : "No."
"'VeIl, what else do you want? I'm a very ambitious man aud like to-
be employed."
(Here I gave him a snuff-hox that bad come that morning from a lAwyer'
in Loudon by parcel post.)
.. A gentleman sent you this. What's it got to (10 with the chain 1"
O. L. : "Nothing."
.. Oh, well, you know Tom, connected with this. It's very curious, but
do you know that uncle of yours turns up over this, the one in the body 1-
His influence is all over it; he lllust have handled it. Your uncle in tho·
body sent it you."
o. L. : "Well, he got it sent."
"Yes, it's got his influence, but in connection with the other uncle. It
comCB from the same uncle. It belonged to Uncle Jerry."
o. L.: .. Quite right."
" That's his. A little case it used to have. [Don't know, but as it was.
a presentation it is probable.] He got it through Robert somehow. Thinks
Robert ga,·e it him. A powder box, isn't it 1"
o. L.: "A snu1f box."
.. Yes, a powder box. It's been ill Robert's possession. It belonged to.
Uncle Jerry yoam ago, very long ago, he can hardly remember it. (Feeling
it.) Has it got a glass top 1-a glazed top 1"
o. L. : "No, it's metal, but it's polished."
"Glazed. Well, he just remembers it. I'll ask him all about it. What
else do you want 1"
o. L.: .. Don't forget the chain."
Digitized by Google
538 .A &cord of ObservatUms of
" That thing bothers me. There's an old gentleman in connection with
it-very eccentric. A nice old gentleman. That chain doesn't do me much
good."
O. L. : "Well, I expect it's hard because it's not a relation."
"Oh, well, he may recognise it. Your own friends come to you. A
strange spirit is rather difficult, but they sometimes come to their things.
The old gentleman is here now, but it's difficult talking to a stranger."
O. L.: "You told me it had his son's influence on it. Well, tell him his
son entrustod me with it, in the hope that he might send a message to him."
" Good. Who's George, George W--, W • • I, 0, n, Wi • • •
Something like Wallinaon. I can hear him pronounce it indistinctly, Wi-
\Vitson, W, i, 1, I, 0, n. Mr. Wilson, my chain."
O. L.: "Yes, that's right."
"Tell my son I'm liring, I'm not dead. Tell him I'm recovered. I've
no trouble (with my legs 1) now, I had a little difficulty with them. This
is new to me. You are a stranger, but that's my chain."
O. L.: "Yes, sir, I'm a stranger, but a friend of your son's, and he will
be very glad to hear from you. I shall send him all you say."
"Tell my son to come and see me. He's been very ill. [True.] I've
been to see him. He has gone away for his health. [True.] He'l done a
lot of good."
O. L. : "Will you send him some message to recognise you by 1"
"I will soon. This is quite new to me. I didn't know I could speak,
but a light came to me. I have been to earth before, but couldn't lpeak.
Tell him I'm very fond of him. Ask him where my watch is. That's the
best I can do now, but I will come again."
O. L. : "Will you send him your name, lir 1"
"W, i, 1. I will write it for you. Show him the chain again. Hold it
up. (Medium writes.) There, that's my full name." [Wrote James Wilson
backwards, illegible till afterwards in mirror.]
O. L. : "Is this his name 1"
"Yes, that's right. You know Joe, don't you 1-.T, a, m, e, I. [Name
unknown to me. See notes.] He's a dear old man, but I can't hold him,
he's gone. He was quite weak while writing. I can't do everything.
William insists on Mary having given him that umbrella. That's why he
liked it and valued it. If a person chooscs a thing for you she gives it you.
lt doesn't matter who pays for it" (p. 537).
O. L. : "I quite agree with you."
"Nelly, have you got your medicine 1"
E. C. L. : "No."
"She mtl.t take it (and 10 on, insisting on her taking it, which she had
not intended to do). Nell, how do you suppose I kncw the name of the man
owning the chain 1"
E. C. L.: "I can't imagine."
" No, can you tell a body's name like that 1"
"No."
•• No, it will be a goot! test, to him Ilnd t() the world. Be a good girl.
God watch over you, blesa you, and all good spirits guide and help you.
I'll sce you again. I must go. All ,·eroir."
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenomena oj Tra'nce. 539
Notes by Mr. Wil8on.
I. (With reference to description of the late owner of the chain as
cc an eccentric nice old gentleman.") My father was anything but
eccentric; calm, methodical, an official in type.
2. He never had anything the matter with his legs to my
knowledge.
3. His name was George. My grandfather's name was James.
Sitting No. SO. February 2nd, 1890. 11.20 a.m.
Present: E. C. Land O. L (E. C. L holding hands. O. L taking
notes.)
"That's Nellie. I have had a talk with your father and mother all about
you (p. 502). . . . She knows well you must not be a nurse, you could not
atand it. [This had been her wish.] You had better stay with her son
Oliver, your brother, to help with the children . . . to help him with
his writing . . . [and so on for along time, with much homely advice
of a practical kind ending:] Now, Nelly, what do you want 1"
E. C. L. : "Will you tell me about the brother a little older than I am 1"
" Which is he 1 There's Oliver, Alfred, Frank. Frank haa had some-
thing to do with you lately."
E. C. L. : .. Y88, I've been staying there."
" And Charles, and there's Urn."
E. C. L. : "It's Ernest I mean."
"I was trying to say it-I can't say Ernest properly. Leave him alone,
he's best where he is, he's not ambitious, he's lazy [and so on, with fairly true
account of this brother and of Charley also, ending :] You stop worrying, little
Miss, you can't do everything for all your brothers. Let me talk to the Cap-
tain now. I saw Mr. Wilson, the one who owned the chain. He told me to
ask you to remind George [right name] of the time when he tried to give hinl
a start in business. He did start him once, and then George backed out.
And George wanted another line of work, and after a little difficulty he
got into it, and haa done well. [On all these things see notes at end.]
Does he remember when his mother was ill he wanted a bit of money 1 He
has gone away now. He has been very ill. Haa been miserable, George haa.
He seems to have got charge of some house-got the run of it. [Pre-
cisely true.] I'm mighty glad he's more contented. It's a kind of place for
people to visit, you know.' I had a long pipe with a crooked handle, he
wants to know if George ha.'I got that. His father sent him a cheque once,
and he didn't get it for a long time. He had a lot of bother about it j it had
been mislaid ill the post. ·Does George remember the fall the old man had 1
He got over it, and his legs don't trouble him now. What's he done with
the watch 1 Ask him how William is 1"
O. L.: " Would he send his name more particularly to avoid chance of
mistake?"
"Why, he did. He wrote it for his son."
O. L. : "Oh, that loa, his name then 1"
" Certainly. HM he got those books I gave him 1 A long lot of them.
He's aaking something about lUr. Bradley, in connection with George."
Digitized by Google
A Record of Observatio1l8 of
O. L. : .. Oh, that's very odd; does he know him?"
"Yes, his father remembera Mr. Bradley through his son, and he has gOG
with him the 'father of Mr. Bradley in the spirit. William. He will know.
He's going to get well. He seems to have got a friend named Cook;
business friends. [T. Cook and Sons possibly (1), but only friends in the sense-
of forwarding cnrrespondence, &0., while he WI\8 travelling.] He was a little·
stubborn when young, but a good boy. 'VllAt hl\8 he done with my cane r
He livcs somewhere in your neighbourhood."
.. Yes, he does."
.. And has got a friend named Bradley [true]-a very great friend of his.
He thought first of being a doctor. I had a difficulty with that fellow at·
first, but he's been a eapital son. 'VIlO arc you 1"
" My nllme is Lodge, 1\11(1 I am a friend of your son. I will write all yOll".
say to him."
"Give my warmest love to him. A quiet and patient lady was his.
mother. He got his disposition from her. He hl\8 got a portrait of me, 1\
good one, but it has been enlarged and changed since I pl\88ed out. I'm
glad he fullowed ill his father's footsteps. He has gone, delighted. A nice
old man."
[Most of "Mr. Wilson's" statements ean only be verified by communica-
tion with his son, now in Afriea. See notes.]
"Wasn't it curious that Robert started to business one time and a curious
physical condition came on ; he went homc and stayed, and has never been
there since. Jerry told me so." [Exactly true at the time.]
O. L.: ""'hen you see him again remind him of his brother Frank."
" All right, I will. Here's Ted Tholllp8lOn, he says it was only the child's
erratic condition, but a good thing really, and it will come out all right. We
knew it was going to happen, but didn't think it worth bothering abuut. The
child's a bit erratic. She WI\8 afmid of being snubbed. What on earth is he
talking about? He don't want me to know wllAt he means. He says: 'Tell
Ike it's all right; "try again" never was beat. It will come out all right.
And tell Susie too.' ..
[Mr. Thompson had been much troubled by a young daughter having-
run home from school. This happened since the first serics of
sittings. (See No. 45, Note G. See also just below,andpp. 544, 546.)
Nothing had been said about it, and I was curiouS to see whether
Dr. Phinuit would get hold of it. The Thompsons had not been in
during this present series. "Ike" and "Susie" are Mr. and Mrs.
Thompson. See also pp. 511, 518, 523. &c.]
"Maria's all right, tell them. She passed out at 12 years old. [True.}
He sends his love to his mother. 'Vho arc you 1"
O. L.: "I am a friend of your brother and. live next door. I hope he
will be able to come and see you next time if you will come again. He is
a good friend of mine."
"'l'hat will be vcry kind of you. I do not wish to intrude or take up your
time, but if you can arrange this it will be very kind. I was going to be a
physician myself, but was cut oft'. [True.] I do not regret it. Happiness
reigns in my veins. And tell Ike, if you please, to go and see mother often,
nnd that Fanny had better stay with her for the present. He will under-
stand." [Quite intelligible.]
Digitized by Google
J
-
\. Oertain Phenomena of Trance. 541
" Ask him not to let trivial things botherhim. He has been fretting lately.
Send her to another place and she won't fly back again. She was a little bit
bomesick. 'There are a good many bave done it before, and will do it again.
Don't lay it up against her for too long. [Quite intelligible and useful advice.]
Tell them I am unseen but in peace and bappiness. Remember me to Ike,
and if YOll will let me see bim again I sball be grateful. I do not want to
annoy you but he was my brother and I am very fond of him."
O. L.: "Right. He shall be here when you come next" (pp. 544, 553).
.. Robert. Who is Helen 1 That's the one wbo gave you tbe snuff-box.
It was Jerry's; there are letters upon it, my letters." .
O. L... Yes, an inscription." (See also pp. 537 and 549.)
"I remember it faintly. Oliver remembers that too. It was given
to me by some friend of mine. I will try and remember about it. But
it's not easy to bring back these little things. I have very important things
to do. We all have. One very important tbing is to look after that little
girl." '
"Where's the preacher, Tom1 He's yelling away for all he's worth [12.15,
at this time he would be preaching]. Two sisters and a brother bave gone
to hear him. Do you know be's a very hard man 1 he would bardly believe
about me" (p. 535).
O. L.: "No, I think he wouldn't. Can you hear what he's saying 1"
"I'll go and pick up something. I can hea.r him, 'For He is the resurrec-
tion and the life; blessed are ye who believe in the Lord Jesus.' He's
preaching about love your neighbour as yourself. Teaching them all that
sort of thing about loving your neighbour, that sort of thing. 'Lifted up
and after seven days He rose.' That's all I can hear." (See Notes on p. 534.)
"Do you know who Joseph is, and Harriet 1"
"No."
"Something in connection with him. Nellie, you are a God-blessed little
girl. Don't get doWll. Keep up."
(Here" Uncle Jerry" tried to write the inscription on snuff-box. He
wrote and said, "Presented to J.," but could do no more.) [That is how it
begins. See also p. 549.]
"William and Alec both send their love to }Iary, and will take care
of her mother. Take good care of his hat [1]."
(Feeling for Nellie's watch, and taking it out of her pocket.)
"It's got your mother's inftuence on it. Keep it. Gladyou got it. You
are welcome to it, child. Keep it."
[The watch had not been mentioned or thought of. It had been her
mother's.]
"Oh, Ted Thompson says the little mat that the child made is very
pretty." [Don't know about this.]
" Hore's Jerry again. Ask Frsnk if he remembers the shot gun. And how
we hid behind a dove-cot and shot peas through a fence at the neighbour's
pigeons. He won't forget it. [Can't remember this.] And how we skated
once and he fell flat and got his seat all wet." [Very likely.]
O. L.: "Yes, I will. Uncle Frsnk remembered about the cat killing.
He says it was Charles that killed it" (p. 527).
[Shouting.] "Charles it was! Yea, that's right. It was Charles. I
2 p
Digitized by Google
542 A Record of Observatio-ns of
remember it perfectly. I had forgotten which one it WM. And does he
remember the Smiths 1" (pp. iH7, 521, 557).
O. L.: "He remembers the Smiths' field; not the boya. He remembers
the field and hM written an account of it. I will read it."
(Here read part of rncle Frank's letter, printed at end of first series,
p. 526, which had arrived to-day.)
"Yes, that'a it ~ I see it ~ I'm young again ~ "
O. L.: "He remembers a]so awimming the creek. 11] read that ~ "
(Read.) [Medium ahouted, laughed, and banged away at Nellie's knees
as the reading proceeded. Specially excited at the mention of "Glenny's
Part."] "I never expected to recall all that. It'a delightful. You have
given me much pleasure."
[Further cOllve1"l!l\tion of a non-evidential order about Cnc]e Frank'.
letter.]
.Votes by Mr. Wil8on.
4. (With reference to "starting his son in business.") I never was
in any kind of business nor thought of it. Was fond of farming and
worked at it with an uncle once.
5. ('Vith reference to possession of a "long pipe.") 1\Iy father
abominated smoking.
6. Do not remember about miscarriage of any cheque, or any fall.
7. I neyer thought of being a doctor. [Note by O. L.-It is
rather cutious that when this was said I thought it correctly repre-
sented something I had been told by Mr. W. I perceive now that it
was quite wrong, and that I had been told something about farming.
A great deal of this looks obviously like thought-transference.]
8. I have got his cane. The portrait has not been enlarged.
Sittillf/ Nu. 81. Felmlul"Y 2nd. Evening.
Present: O. L. und M. L. Afterwards Mr. and Mrs. Thompson and
daughter.
(0. L. holding hands, and giving Mr. Wilson's ehain.)
" How are you 1 I've got here again. Nellie, come here."
O. L. : "She's not here. That's Mary."
"Oh, Marie. Wait a bit, Marie. You won't mind, will you 1 There's 1\
gentleman here specially wanta to speak, Mr. 'Vilson. How do you do, Mr.
L--."
O. L. : "Lodge my llI\m6 is."
" How do you do, Mr. Lodge 1 I know you a little better now. I have met 1\
friend of yours, an uncle, I think; also a friend of your father'a-your father
in fact. I have been talking to them. I shall be able to help in this work.
Tell me why you want to know about me."
O. L. : "Well, sir, your son, being interested in what I told him, wanted
greatly to come and see you if he could, but he couldn't just now. So 1\8
next beat he entrusted me with your chain, and asked me to get meuagea for
him, especially concenling things that I do not know."
" Why about things you don't know 1'I
Digitized by Google
Ce1·tain Phenomena of Trance. 54-a
O. L. : "Well, because if I knew things it would seem as if I had SOllle-
how impressed them from my mind upon that of the medium, instead of
their having come direct from you, and this would be no evidence of your
existence. "
"I see your idea, but what do you mean by the medium 1 That woman
I saw just now 1" O. L.: "Yes."
" Well, do you know I am a very happy man. I have had the power often
of seeing my son, and I have watched his course with great interest, but I
did not know I could speak. I am grateful to you for helping me to speak.
I remember when George was ill while taking his degree, he had to come
home, and had a great deal of fever. Overwork, and going among young
men. He has not been strong since. He is rather delicate. [Correct.]
He has a great desl of preaching to do, and that tires him, but he must
be much respected."
" He is indeed."
"Yes, he is a good boy. I have been sorry for his illness, but the reKt
l1e is going to t."\ke will do him good. It would be a great pleasure to see
him here so that I could speak."
O. L.: "I hope it can be managed later; meanwhile send him facts so that
l1e may feel lUI.'!ured it is yourself."
"I will try. Ask if he remembers my light grey suit. He was a quiet boy.
I built-built once. I had a chimney taken out and a new one put in. I
was afraid of their taking cold in my house, so I had the chimney repairetl.
It was a leaky bad bit of. And I put a Hight of stairs to the left of
the chimney, to the left 8S near as I can recall."
" On one side the chimney 1"
"On one side the chimney. It was quite an improvement when it WM
done. And behind that was my study. I had a lot of books. You didn't
know I got hurt."
"No."
•• I got hurt. I was going acr088 the boat . • . George looks
careworn, do you know'/ "
" Yes, he does."
,. I was going across. . I slipped in stepping oft" the boat and hurt
a knee badly. It troubled me a good deal. I had to have it propped up on
a chair, and it pained me."
O. L. : "I will send this to your son. You speak of lllwing seell him.
Did he ever know of it ?"
" I have been to see him. I have come very close and he has thought he
heard me." [He has had feelings of the kind.]
" How did he hear you 1"
"Once he was in bed and I rustled the drapery. He thought he heard
me. He feels sometimes as if I was very near him, and at those times I am.
near him. I should not have been here but for this chain. A dear boy
George is. I have got another boy with me. How is Mr. Bradley 1"
O. L.: "Pretty well, but surely you didn't know him 1"
"No, but I have seen George with him. They are friends. I know what
they know. I am not dead, and when we take a cl~ interest we can tell
what happens. He is a good man and kind-hearted. He IUld George seem.
2 p 2
Digitized by Google
544 A Rtxord of ObservatUnls of
friends. It is not oasy to remember things. You see I was quite an old
gentleman and the things I knew long ago he wouldn't know and they
wouldn't interest him. His trip will do him good. Do you know his family 1·
He has three now, and a girl. I know three perfectly, but the youngest I
think is a girl." [No, four boys.]
"He has let his beard grow. He did have it cut 011', very stupid. He has.
a beard now, but he cut it 011' at one time. [True.] Who is that 1"
o. L.: "My wife."
" How do you do, Mrs. Lodge 1 I am gL"\d to make your acquaintance as a.
friemi of my son's. Tell him the thing of most importance is to take care of
his henlth. After my teeth came out they bothered me very much. These
things seem silly now, but then they bothered me, and he will know. Oh~
he's gone, waving his hand, nice old gentleman. Do you know Dr.
Thompson 1"
O. L. : "Dr. who? Oh, Ted Thompson 1" (pp. 511, 518, 523, 541, 553)_
" Who is it calls me Ted Thompson 1 Nny, I'm much obliged to you, but
why1"
O. L.: "'Veil, it's merely because I hear your brother calling you so. I
should have said Dr. Thompson. Your brother is in the next room, and I
will call him."
(Mr. and Mrs. T. and daughter had entered the house quietly during the-
sitting, so as to be ready if wanted.)
•• Thank you very much. I am grsteful." [Mr. and Mrs. T. and Theodora..
came in.]
"Ike, come here. I can't stay long. I've got to tell you something_
Are there people listening 1"
Mr. T. : .. Only friends."
"It was a. . Don't worry too much about what you have been
worrying about." [See pp. 540, 541, and 546.]
l\lr. T. : "No, I won't."
.. All right. Ike, they are all right. Your family are right. Just
1\8 sure as that a spirit lives your family will do well; no harm coming to any
of you. Ike, I wish you were where I am. Mother is failing. Yes, her-
head is failing, and she has trouble with her ears. You didn't know that."
Mr. T. : .. No, I didn't."
.. She hl\8. Ike, don't go to sleep. She hl\8 got cold in one ear. [This
turned out on inquiry to be true. It was quite unsuspected.] I have seen
her with something tied over it. She is going to stay with you some time
yet."
Mr. T. : .. Oh, I'm glad of that."
.. Yes, but, Ike, let Fanny stay with her. She will stay in the body, but
ahe's losing ground. You understand me, Ike. What can I do for you 1"
[The next portion, although wholly non-evidential, is printed as a specimen
of the kind of conversation that often occurs if allowed.]
l\lr. T. : .. How are you occupied 1"
.. My time is occupied in writing. It is difficult to explain, but whatevel"
we break 011' ill the body we can go on with. I write a great deal. I write
often for others. We often help a poor fellow. You know there are people
who commit suicide, they have taken their own life, and their spirits are
Digitized by Google
Certavn Plten01luma of Tra')!ce. 54-5
sorely depressed for 110 time, but after a bit we are able to help them. That
is my work, helping others and those that are weak. It is splendid here.
Nothing to feed. You remember people used to eat. The material body is
matter; that goes to dust, but we live on. God is very good to us all. It's
;Il mistake not to believe in God."
" And Christ 1"
"Do you know who Christ was1 It's 110 great mystery, Ike. You know we
were taught that He WIloB the Son of God; well, He was a reflexion of God
.and we are a reflexion of Him."
" Do you ever see Him 1"
"Occasionally we do, but not often ; He is far superior to us; infinitely
superior."
" And to everybody 1"
"Yell, to everybody. He is the real reflexion, we are secondary reflexions.
<lh, I feellloB if I wish I knew everybody. I am out of all aches and pains. I
left you suddenly. Your sister has scores of children to teach. This p~e
is divided up into parts. Here, on the earth, there is water between two
countries; so there is a separation between the good and the bad side. Look
here, if you took Susie's life, Susie would pIIoBS into the bright side in peace;
.afterwards you would not, but you would see her and that would be your
punishment. It's IIoB when you look through a screen; you can see people
but they can't see you. Once lately a man broke through and came here, but
two attendants took him back (p. 523). We never tire. There's no night, it's
;all day. I remember days and nights down with you. Ike, some day I'll meet
your hands outstretched and if possible I will come; if possible. My mother
hlloB caught cold. She's failing. Tell her I love her, lo\'e her still, and when
she looks at my picture, as she often does, I stand and look at her and say,
, If you only knew how near I was to you.' Do you know where my watch
.and chain are 1"
Mr. T.: "Ah, where is it 1"
" I will get father to help me look it up."
Mr.T.: "Yes, he should know. Do you know who this is?" [Theodora.]
"Did I ever see her 1 No, I never knew her."
Mr. T.: "No, you did not."
" Theo-ora, Theodora, Theo--"
Mr. T.: "Yes, Theodora."
"You have got a boy named after me 1"
Mr. T.: "Yes."
"It was my father's chain. I will try and remember about it, and come
ngain. (Manner and voice here suddenly changed to Phinuit's.) Ullo!
How are you, Thompson, and you, you little mis.,; 1 You've got headaches.
Have you had that sage tea yet 1"
" No."
"Well, you're a stupid lot. Why don't you take it, and what are you
fretting about 1 worrying, thinking you've lost sOlnething. Wlmt have you
lost 1"
Theodora: "Oh, a paint-box."
"It's not lost at all. You will find it in a drawer on the left-hand side-
in a drawer. Go upstairs and right, left, right."
Digitized by Google
A Record of ObSCrvotimlS of
Theodora: •• Tell me again."
..Well, you go in at the front, then you tum to the right and go upstllirs~
then you go to the right, and then to the left, then on the right, 1\11(i on
the left-hand side."
Theodora: .. A bedroom?"
.. No, not quIte right."
Theodora: .. It must be the schoolroom?"
.. That's it. It's not a drawer, but quite like a drawer. Not a desk, but
like a desk. Well, it's there, in left-hand drawer among some papers. Your
uncle told me that. Go and find it when you get back. It's not lost at all."
[The description applies exactly to the place it is usually kept in, but it is
not there now.]
Mrs. T. : "Is that the one that said he would help her 1"
..Yes. He's quite a passion for it; never tired of talking about that girl.
I\nd about painting. She's got it in her, it will come out. What a fliBS about
rings. YOli don't want rings, so don't make a fuss about them. [Theodora.
while coming very quietly to the house (after the Bitting had begun with
O. J. L.), remembered Bhe had forgotten some rings Bhe had intended t..
bring, and wanted to go back for them, but was not allowed. Nothing luut
heen 8/\id or thought about them further.] What are you bothering about t
(to Mrs. T.) You're fretting."
Mrs. T. : "Well, I'm very tired."
" What is it 1 One of those girls 1"
Mrs. T.: "What girls 1..
"ThOBe girls that do the washing. what do you call them, Bervants. The-
dark one and little one, little but funny. [Correct description of one of
them, who haB turned out rather badly.] You needn't fret about that ..
That's nothing."
Mrs. T.: ,. What about my second daughter?"
"The dark one? Oh, she's all right. That's nothing. She'B a good girl.
I like her. She's very sensitive, and WaB afraid of being Bnubbed, didn't
like it, felt a bit homesick. She's going away again and going to be all right.
Put her back up a bit, but it will never hurt. Don't mind. She took Ult
her traps, and away Bhe went." [All correct, see pp. 511 and 540.]
Mrs. T.: .. Ought we to send her back 1"
"Send her to another place. Bless you, I like it. Where her heart is
her body ought to be. It will be all right in the end."
Mrs. T.: .. And it has not injured her character 1 ..
" Character! Pooh! Not a bit. She showed a good bit of coumge t••
get home abrain. I rather enjoy those things. She just took it int{) her-
head. She's impulsive, and oft" she went. Ha! ha! She'll take another'
start, and this time she'll stick to it. Don't you fret. Mary, you come here ;.
let those people clear out. You have been taking carrot."
M. L.: "Yes, you told me to " (p. 521).
"Yes, I know. Well, now you have taken plenty of that. Get some ("VIt"
rrsi. Do you know what that is 1 (No.) Well, it's mountain cranbelTY.
Get some of those leaveK. You can get the infusion, but leaves are better-
because pure. Let them steep and take a wineglassful before going to bed.
Take it instead of carrot for three weeks and then carrot IIgain. (Medic;1.l
Digitized by Google
Certain Plte?wnte?UlJ of Trwilce. 547.
details gone into, accurate in general, but one statement which tunled out
false. Prescribed also for third boy, viz., 20z. Huxum's tincture of CinchOIL"l,
2oz. French dialysed iron, and 4oz. druggists' simple syrup; a teaspoonful
after shaking in wineglass of water, with a few drops of lemon juice or
other acid.) He has a pain here when he runs, blood poor, &c. LDetails
correct.] Give him milk, lime water, and eggs." (Further advice to M.
L., who, having had the influenza badly, was in low spirits, with attempts to
cheer her.)
Note8 by Mr. Trilson.
9. I was not ill while taking my degree.
10. I remember no special light grey suit.
11. My mother's name was not Mal'y, and I never had a sister or a.
brother.
12. All about building stairs and chimney completely unintelligible.
My father always rented our houses. [See p. 530.]
13. He never had an unsound tooth.
Sitting No. 82. FebrllaJlI 3rd, 1890. Mcnollillg.
Present: O. L. and E. C. L.
"t'lo, Captain, I'm first rate. Got a lot of things to do for you. I've been
talking to your friends and the Thompson's. I haven't hurt myself, but I've
been busy. Take care of your boy, and Mary do what I told her. Here's
l\1r. Wilson; give me that chain. (Given.) Mr. Wilson had sister Ellen-
Eleanor; she passed out of body before he did. These little things will be of
interest to George, although so trivial. He had a few books given him by the
Rev. Mr. Clark. He thinks George has them, but is not sure of that. He
had lots of books."
O. L.: .. Your son is anxious to talk to YOll, and I hope he will, but he's
abroad now."
"Yes, he knows. They lived near the water; you didn't know that.
They did once. They moved after George's illness. That was when the
chimney was fixed. Do you understand that?"
O. L. : "Yes, Mr. Wilson told me about the chimney" (i.e., through
the medium at previous sitting).
"Oh, he did. Well, and he says he and Gcorge's mother travelled over,
and got some pieces of foreign wood inlaid. Shape of box, inlaid. When he
crossed the Channel, he told you this before, he fell and hurt his knee as he
was stepping off the boat. No gang plank-what you call it. Mr. Bradley
I've only seen with George since I passed out."
O. L.: "Did you speak of Mr. Bradley's father 1"
"Yes; I know his father and his brother. They had a grandfather,
Thomas, the Bradleys had. You look these things up. Endless amount of
trouble. . . . One of them is connected with the Civil Service, one of
the Brsdleys. It would have becn sensible if the child's teeth had been
taken out sooner, as soon as they got loose. Tell George I said that. What
can I do for you 1 Did you tell the Rev. ThomBS about his preaching 1"
O. L. : "I will; but I don't think you got his sermon right" (p. 541).
Digitized by Google
548 A Record of Observations of
" I know I got it right. Mr. Wilson wants to know-Uxbury.II
O. L. : "Did they live there 1"
"It's a place that's got shire on to it. Chestershire (i)-Uxbridge. Ux-
bridge. Is there such a place 1 "
" Yes."
" He used to know a Mr. Boys."
"At Uxbridge 1"
"That's right. There, you've got enough. I don't think you will get
much more from him. He's gone."
O. L. : "Ask him to go to his BOn and see what he is doing, and come
back and tell me, please" (p. 552).
"I'll ask him. Do you know your Unclo Jerry was more pleased with
those things you told him-those about Charles and that-than anybody 1
He was tickled all over (p. 542). What have you dono with his watch '1
Has it gone back to Robert 1"
" Yes, I returned it."
"Oh, why didn't you keep it a bit longer 1 When you see Robert ask
him about the rug-hair rug-fur rug of Uncle Jerry's. What has he done
with it-a brown fur rug 1 Do you remember the wheels I "
O. L. : "Yes, I was puzzled about them."
"Well, it's seals. Did you know Jerry's books 1"
O. L. : "No, not much."
.. He had a history of . . . Hullo! here's Aunt Anne. (Feelingarm
of chair medium sat in, and pinching and rubbing it for next few minutes.)
Alfred's got some of her books, hasn't he 1"
" Yes, a few."
" Who was it had the birds 1 "
"I don't know."
"We went shooting, we boys, and killed some ducks. The skipper will
remember that. What a little devil he was. He couldn't be tamed or done
anything with. His mother had a lot of trouble with him. [Uncle Frank is
often called "the skipper." The description probably applies to him well
enough.] Aunt Anne's here (p. 536). She says, 'That was mine '-this tIring.
[Good. It had never been asked about or mentioned. It was her wedding
present.] What is it 1"
O. L.: "It's the arm of a chair."
"Oh, it's like the arm of an organ or something. "
O. L.: "It's quite right. Aunt Anne gave me this chair."
"She knows she did. And there was another thing, a little stool;
where's that 1"
O. L. : "I don't know that."
"Yes, a little flat stool used to be under the table. Who's got it 1
Covered with 'soft stuff. Your father wants to know how you got Iris watch
and hOlv Nelly got your mother's."
O. L. : "Well, we thought it was proper for her to have it."
"Yes, quite right. The only girl. They are \"erypleased. Aunt Anne is
vexed you didn't have more of her books."
O. L. : "I did have some."
"Yes, but very few. 'Well, my boy, are you still seeking for inform&-
Digitized by Google
Oertnin Phenomenn of Trance. 549
tion1" O. L. : "Yes, but not for much lotlger just now." "Do you want
to know about Charlie 1 He's in Canada."
"I'm anxious about Charlie, but I don't worry." "You've done the best.
Have you a photograph of me, Nelly 1"
E. C. L: " Yea, one with Charlie and Edith."
"You have that too, Oliver 1"
O. L.: "Yes, I have it."
" Aunt Anne was very fond of you. She wishes she could have done more
for you. Your friends are not much here. Strange people seem to bother
them. It's too bad about Robert's health. I would like to know what he
did with that ring of mine. [Feeling snuff-box inside.] Is it gold in it'I"~
O. L.: "Yea, it's gilt inside."
"How's Mary 1 Going to rest now and take good carel Do you know
Richard, a brother Richard 1"
E. C. L. : "Yea, what of him 1"
" Do you want to know anything about him 1"
E. C. L. : "Yea, how is he 1"
"He's pretty well; hasn't been well; but pretty well now. Did you
find those creases in Uncle Jerry's watch near the handle '1" (p. 518).
"Yea."
"Do you know if Uncle ,Jerry smoked 1"
" No."
"Well, he didn't. Mr. Wilson had a long pipe which was given him.
Uncle Jerry had a thing that looked like a pipe but wasn't. Uncle Jerry has
been to see Robert and is coming back. Nelly, come here and talk to me a
bit. (More vague talk.) You should take egg and milk and brandy some-
times. Go and fetch your aunt's ring, Captain, and that handle belonging
to your uncle. " [Went for ring; did not understand "handle," p. 550.]
" That's right. Where's the handle 1"
O. L.: "Don't know what you mean."
"Ullo, here's Jerry. Aunt Anne has been to fetch him. See what good
the ring is. Look here, Oliver, I have been trying to remember about this
box; it seems to me that before I went into insurance I used to teach, and
that this was given me by my pupils." [Correct, it was given him by the
boys of the Lucton Grammar School, where in early life he was mathematical
master. An inscription on it in small characterasserts thefact. See also p. 541.]
O.L. : "Yea, that's so. Do you know where it was that you used to
teach 1"
"No, it's 80 long ago. How long have I been here 1 It must have been
20 or 30 years."
O. L. : "Yes, fully 20 years."
" And that was given me long before that."
O. L.~: " I will tell you when it was given you. It is dated 1836, and
now it's 1890. Fifty-four years."
"Yes, that's a long time. Tell me where it was 1"
O. L.: "It was Lucton."
"Oh, oh, yes. Yea, I used to teach there, and it was given me by the
boys. It has been a tremendous job to remember it. Frank was full of life-
full. He crawle(l under the thatch once and hid. What a lot of
Digitized by Google
550 A llecOl-cl of Observatwl18 of
mischief he was capable ofdoing. He would do anything; go without shirt.
swop hats, anything. There W/\ll a family near named Rodney. He pounded
one of their boys named John. Frank got the best of it, and the boy ran ;
how he ran! His father threatened Frank, but he escaped; he always
escaped. He could crawl through a smaller hole than another. He could
shin up a tree quick "''! a monkey. What a boy he WI\8! I remember his
fishing. I remember that boy wading up to his middle. I thought he'd catch
his death of cold, but he never did." [See notes at end of series, p. 007.]
o. L. : "No, he's an old man now."
"Send him my warm love. Do you know, Oliver, I can't remember the
friend who WI\8 photogrnphed with me that you say is Robert something."
O. L. : "No. Shl\ll I tell you 1"
"Well, what do you think 1 Had you better 1"
o. L. : "I fear you won't remember it in time now."
"What do you think, Nelly 1"
E. C. L. : "Yes, you would like to know it now."
O. L. : "It W/\ll Robert Cheere." [I find later that this is wrong: it,
was I\nother member of the same fl\mily.]
"Oh! Oh, Lord! Oh! Ah well! (pause) Do you know where he iH?
(No.) Well, he's here. Here is your father. Oliver, my son, why don't
YOll wear my wl\tch 1"
"I've got 1\ bettcr one."
"Well, but the chl\in ? and fix this thing to it I\gl\in. I dl\resay yuurs is
a bit smarter, and more boyish, but if I WI\8 you I would wear my chl\in a bit.
I am rather troubled I\t not having done more for you boys. I wish I
had done more, but you won't treasure it up against us 1"
O. L. : .. Certainly not."
"Give me that handle (p. 549)-your fl\ther'lI corkscrew."
o. L. : "Oh, that thing."
"Yes, that's it. He tells me to open it. (Opened it, and lmlled out
screw.) You knew this was your fl\ther's."
o. L.: "Well, it was my mother's, I thought. "
" But his too. It's like that umbrella (p. 537). They both had it...
O. L.: .. 'Von't my mother come I\nd speak herself 1"
" She has sent message. She can't come and speak herself."
o. L.: .. Mr. E. does." (Referring to Sittings 40 and 47.)
" You are greedy. Yes, Mr. E. does, but Mr. E. is a scientific IIIl\n, who
has gone into these things. He comes and turns me out sometimes. It
would be a very nan-ow place into which Mr. E. couldn't get. "
lioies by .lfr. Wilson.
14. Don't think he had 1\ sister Ellen, or friend l\Ir. Clark. I find
on inquiry that my gl·lmdfather had friends of that name.
15. Inlaid box, nccident on crossing Channel, refel'ence t~) child's
teeth, Uxbridge, stag's head [next page], all unintelligible.
Sittin{J lYo. 83, ami IlMt ill Eugiawl. lIfond"y EI'willg, Febru(lI'!I 31'r.
7.30 to 9.45.
Present: O. L., E C. L., and afterwards :Mr. and Mrs. T. and 1\1. L
Digitized by Google
Oertain Pltenome1l(t of T1'(/1/ce. 551
,. 'Ullo, Nelly. Come here, Captain. It looks 88 if someone had pl\88cd
out suddenly, quite recently. One of your uncles, I think."
"Which '/"
" I can't see ; they are all busy round him. A lot of people are bustling
about. I don't know who it is. I think someone has passed out or just
passing out. I can't tell you anything more. There is something wrong,
anyway." [7.45 p.m.]
O. L.: "If he is passed out you can see him."
"Not a bit. You make nothing of a spirit that's just passed out. They
are all strange and don't know where they are. Your people seem all busy.
Do you know if one of your uncles is ill? " O. L. : "No, not particularly."
" How's Charles?" O. L. : "Oh, he p888ed out long ago."
"Well, how's Sam 1" o. L. : "I don't know; pretty well, I think."
•. Well, I can't tell you anything more about it. But I think it's Sam. It'll
either Sam or in his surroundings. [Uncle Sam, I find by writing, was ill on
Saturday and Sunday and had to see a doctor, but was right again on
Monday. A son was invalided at home, and died some months later; but
no coincidence can be claimed for that.] (To Nelly, whose watch had been
handed to medium.) This is your mother's. Your mother wants you to
take your medicine. Do you remember the little one that passed out of the
body 1"
E. C. L.: " No, but I know there was one."
"Well, he's here with her. But you wouldn't know him now. He's
grown up."
E. C. L. : "Then they do grow 1"
" Certainly. He's about 35, I should say. [The brother referred to, who
died aged five weeks, would have been 33.] They all look about 35 here.
She wants to know did you have her brown dress? "
" No."
"And her ring. And she had a pin, a brooch thing, and a pair of buttons
to hook into sleeves. Where are they all? "
E. C. L.: "I'm afraid I don't know."
"But some one ought to know. And I had a little pocket-knife with four
blades in it. Where is that 1 And a cameo pin and a little neck chain tlll~t
used to be yours when you were small. Three rings you know I had. Where
are they?"
O. L. : "I suppose Alfred knows."
"Well, look up my things. You, Nelly, ought to have them. This is
my watch, but that's not my chain; where's my chl\in 1"
E. C. L.: "I don't know. This is a chain Mary wore. She kept tho
watch for me."
" The brooch you ought to have with a large stone in it. It belonged to
my mother, your grandmother."
" Where are the Smiths? Do you know the Howl\rds 1"
O. L. : "No."
"Here's Mr. Wilson again_ I had 1\ stag's head that I cut out of wood
myself when I was young. I wish that it could be found. It's a small thing
but it was a piece of work. I did it with my knife."
O. L.: "Well, I will ask your son."
Digitized by Google
552 A Record of Obsen'atio?18 of
"I have been to see him."
O. L.: •• Do you see him now 1 What is he doing 1"
"George has been writing out something-manuscript. He and another
have been riding out together."
.. Do you mean on a horse 1"
"No, in a vehicle, and George has been showing papers. They are out
together. [Mr. and Mrs. Wilson were at this time taking a long railway
journey.] Ask him if he remembers that old long clock. It used to be my
father's. I don't know that I can remember much more. There are a good
J1lI\ny people here wanting to speak. I will not stay any longer. Gi¥e my
best love to my son. Good-bye."
"Good-bye, Mr. 'Vilson."
"He's going away-up, up-there [following with finger], with a stout
lady, brown hair, parted down middle, straight nose, full of face, hair at back
brought over top of head-sort of French arrangement. Blue-grey eyes. Small
,vhite cap on front of head. "
..Here's Mr. E. (p. 516) ; Lodge, don't loose hold of a good thing. I could
have done much for the Society if I had lived, hut I can do still more now.
It is wonderfully difficult to communicate. All the time I've been he1"e I ha¥o
only found two mediullls besides this one. Misa X. is one; very honest.
The other is that Miss Fowler. I have been there once. Disgusting
sun·oundings, but I went. Yes, she's a true medium. More people might
be mediullls, but many won't when they can. "
" \Vhat constitutes a medium 1 "
"Not too much spirituality, and not too much animalism. Not the highest
people, and not the lowest. Syml1Sthetic, and not too self-conscious. Able
to let their minds be given up to another. That sort of person, easily
influenced. Many could, but their pride and a sense of self comes in and
spoils it. As to the physical things: mostly frsud. The rest electricity.
[The supposed spesker was not the least likely to refer things to electricity
in this casual fashion.] A person's nerves are doing things they don't know
what. They are often not conscious when they move things."
.. It's like automatic writing then 1..
" Something. Often the bells and noises are made by thelll when under
the control of some other spirit, and then the message may be genuine.
Trance things and automatic writing are good. Often good. Other things
sometimes; but mostly fraud. (Further talk of this kind for some time.)
Who is this 1"
o. L. : "It's my sister."
" Oh, pleased to make your acquaintance. I didn't meet you, I think. "
E. C. L. : .. No, I never saw you."
"Glad to sec you now. I wrote a little book once. (Title given.) Did
you ever read it 1"
"No."
"You might by chance be interested in it. Lodge, I will show you somo
verses I have written up here some day. Phinuit will be eonting back soon.
He's a good old man. He has a hard place. I wouldn't do the ,york he does
for anything. Seeing all manner of people and hunting up their friends, and
often he has hard work to persuade them that they are really wanted. "
Digitized by Google
aertain PhenoTlu!'na of Tra?lce. 553
O. L.: "Is he reliable 1"
"Not perfectly. He is not a bit infallible. He mixes things terribly
sometimes. He does his best. He's a good old llU\n ; but he does get con-
fused, and when he can't hear distinctly he fills it up himself. He does in-
vent things occasionally, he certainly does. Sometimes he has very hard
work."
O. L. : "Are his medical prescriptions any good 1"
"Oh, he's a shrewd doctor. He knows his business thoroughly. He can
see into people and is very keen on their complaints. Yes, he is very good
in that way, very good."
O. L. : "Can he see ahead at all 1 Can anyone 1"
" I can't. I haven't gone into that. I think Phinuit can a little some-
times. He can do wonderful things. He has studied these things a good deal.
He can do many things that I can't do. He can look up people's friends and
say what they are doing sometimes in an extraordinary way. But he is far
from being infallible."
O. L.: "The Thompsons are waiting in next room. Shall I call them
in 1" .
"The Thompsons 1 Oh, I know. I met them at your house once at dinner,
I think. [Yes.] No, I don't specially want to see them. Well. Lodge, I
must be going. Good-bye. Stick to a good tlring and don't give it up. Go
on with the investigation. I will help you. This will be the thing of the
fut101re and will increase people's happiness. More mediums will arise and
communication will be easier. Good-bye."
[Here medium seemed to sleep a few moments and then woke up again
in the Phinuit llU\nner, putting out hand and feeling sitter's head.]
" Eh! what! Oh, yes. All right. Look here, Mr. E. has been here.
He told~e to express his regret that he had not said good-bye to Miss
Lodge. Here's Dr. Thompson" (p. 544).
Mr. and Mrs. T. had recently come in and now came near.)
"Joy be with you. God bless her. Your brother wants to see you.
How's the sage tea 1"
Mrs. T. : "It's being made."
" I have thought about that watch and chain, but I can't find it. I have
looked all over."
Mr. T. : "No, I'm afraid it's gone. An accident happened to it, and it
was sold."
" Oh. it seems to me it was given to me, and that there was an inscrip-
tion on it. Presented to me where I worked, because they appreciated me. ,.
Mr. T. : "Yes, there was an inscription."
" What was that inscription 1"
Mr. T. : "Yes, what was it 1"
" It was given me where I studied. It was an appreciation from some of
my friends, I think. I did a friend a service. [He took a friend's epileptic
son through Egypt, and it was for this that the watch was given, in addition
to his fee.] Ike, did you ever hear from me and from father before 1"
Mr. T. : "No, never before just lately."
" That's a mistake, Ike. You heard once before ; some time ago. You
shouldn't forget."
Digitized by Google
554 A Record of ObIJervations of
Mr. T. : .. Oh, yes, so I did, many yeal"!! ago. For the moment I did not
think of it." [Referring t~ an old interview which his friends had had with
some medium at Bristol, when vivid personal messages from Dr. T. were
likewise supposed to be sent.]
" YtlS, and I sent a llltlssage to mother before. Don't forget me, Ike.
Have you seen mother lately 1 you have not seen her to-day 1"
Mr. T. : "No, not to-day, but yesterday I did."
"She hM had trouble with her htlad. I am looking -after her. How's
William 1 He went on to Scotland, I think."
Mr. T. : "You AAid you wrote a great deal. How can you write 1"
"It is the same thing to us. The nearest thing to it. We are very busy.
Ike, but we are never weary of praising aud thanking God for our creation
and preservation. That ill our chief employment. (Dr. P.) Susie, your father
sends his love to little Miss here. Has she found her paint-box yet 1"(p.54D).
Mrs. T. : "No."
"Why doesn't she gu and look for it 1 You go iuto door, aud from there
go upstairs, then t~ right, then 1;.) left, and into room where papers are."
Ml"!!. T.: "Yes, tlmt's where it is usually kept, and where it ought to be.
but it's not there now, she says."
"Let her look agl\in. She'll find it. [Not found it.] Here's your
mother, too. She hM a little funny cap on her head down over her ears, and
two ladies with her. They l18y they're your sistel"!!. One quite young, and
one a little older. One is a fat little thing with funny little curls all over
here. " [All correct.]
Ml"!!. T.: "Yes, I rtllllcmber."
"Well, she Wtlars it just the same now. \Vhere's her ring? Another little
ring with a top to it helonged to one of these ladies. "
Mrs. T. : "I don't remtlmber it."
" How stupid you are! Perhaps the Captain can explain. Your father
will help that girl Theo-- to paint. Nice man he is.( Here's Dr. Rich.
[See alao p. 511, Note F.] - It is very kind of this gentleman [i.e., Dr.
Phinuit] to let me speak to you. Mr. Thompson, I waut you to give a
message to father."
Mr. T. : "I will give it."
" Thank you a thousand times, it is very good of you. You see I passed
out rather suddenly. Father was very much troubled about it and he is
troubled yet. He hasn't got over it. Tell him I alll alive-that I scnd my
love to him. "llere are my glasses 1 (feeling) I uscd to wear glasses. [True.]
I think he has them, amI some of my books. There was a little black case
I had, I think he has that too-I don't want that lost. Sometimes he is
bothel'ed about a dizzy ftleling in his head-nervous about it, but it is of no
consequence. "
Mr. T. : "\Vhat does your father do 1"
(Took up a card amI appeared to write on it and pretended to put
stamp in comer.) ..He attends to this sort of thing. Mr. Thompson, if you
will give this message I will help you in many ways. •I can and I will."
[Mr. Rich, sen., ill head of Liverpool Post-office. His son, Dr. Rich, WAS
almost a IItranger to Mr. Thompson and quite a stranger to me.
The father was much dilltressed about his son's death, we find. Mr.
Digitized by Google
Oe'l'tain Phenomena of TI'(!?lce. 555
Thompson has since been to see him and given him the message.
He considers the episode very extraordinary, and inexplicable except
by fraud of some kind. The phrase, .. Thank you It thousand
times,:' he asserts to be characteristic, and he admits a recent slight
dizziness. It is not easy to identify the "black case," but it is
reported that on his death-bed his son frequently mentioned one.
The only peraon able to give first-hand evidence on this point is at
present absent in Germany.] )
"Now, all you people come here."
"Good-bye, Susie. Good-bye, Ike. Good-bye, ~elly."
"~ow, all clear out and let me talk to Marie."
(Long conversation of a paternal kind, with thoroughly sensible advice.
Then O. L. returned.)
"Captain, it's not good-bye, it's au rel'oi,', and you shall hear of me when
I've gone away."
O. L. : "How can I 1"
"Oh, I will tell some gentleman a message nnd he will write it for me.
You'Usee. "
" An I'croil', cut 'reroil'," &c.
Eutt of ...~ond Se,.i.u of Siftillyg at Lire,.puol.
ApPENDIX.
Referring to a remark in the notes on p. 527, about the conceiv-
able mission of an agent to Barking to make inquiries, it struck us that
it might be instructive to actually send one and Hee what could be thus
gleaned: with the objects (1) of verifying such of the facts mentioned about
my uncles as had not yet been verified, and (2) of incidentally learning how
much could in this way, after so long an interval and such great changes in
the neighbourhood, be gleaned.
I accordingly gave full instructions to a confidential and skilled agent,
and I append his series of reports; for though they do n6t add much to our
infonuation they yet seem to me instructive in various indirect ways.
Oct~,· 2nd, 1800.
I spent yesterday in Barking 1I11~king inquiries. The result is not very exciting,
but there is a chance of better things, for I have made an appointment to meet an oM
man next Monday, 83 years old, who has li\"ed at Bllrking all his life, and is credited
with a long and reliable memory. He was away on business, and not likely to retum
before lIonday. I saw other old men, in different parts of the town, but their
memories did not go back far enough. Two of them remembered when the Re\".
Oliver Lcxlge was curate in chargl', and that as boys they had a nickname fm' him ;
but they could recall none of the things we need. They knew that there were se\'eral
.. young Lodges...
It is a custom in Barking to call fields and lanes after IMlrsons connected with
them-generally the landlord; and there seems to be an impl'f'88ion amoDg the old
people that there wera more Smithp than one with fields. However, a workman on
!!Orne .. black works" told me that his old father actually lives now in a place that
used, long ago, to be called .. Smith's field" occasionally. I went to this spot, but it
wat! late in the evening, and the old man was either out or would not answer when I
knocked. It is probably the right field, however, for it is at the upper part of
.. Glenny's Park" (ill it Park or Part!), it has ponds and creeks where fishing might
be done, and the river Rodin ill close by. I haVf' made arrangements to examine the
Digitized by Google
556 A ReC01'd of Observati01lS of
old or.lnance m:\p3 in thp Snr"eyor's Office at the Town HaU on Montiay. No (me
l!eeme(\ able to identify the Smith OO!l3; but if I can fix this Smith from the maps it may
make it f'a"i"r to trace the boy,.
A huildpr, named Dmk(', who ha.q lived in Barking a good many years, wlkI1'&tber
hell'fu:. He can remember Messrs. William and }'mnk \Vhitboum-thpy wen' father
and "'lfl, awl the younger one's name WI\!! reaUy Francis. He also remembers Jam.".
and Henry Sharl>-they are buried in the old churehyard, aud Drake had to reno,'ate
their tumbstones quite recently.
Thi. is all I ha,'e Jx,en ablE' to get at up to the present. It nowdepend. upon the
old man agt'd H3 nVm. Bailey) and the ordnance map. If the old man Bailey is
a failure I knuw of nothing ebe to do. I expect to find Smith'. field all right.
Ocrober 71h, l~OO.
Further inquiries at Barking have not enabled me to make any definite di..oo,-eries
of th" rpluired !<Ort. The old man (Baih·y) proved a failure, he could re:nemiJer nn
mure than the other old p",oplE'-which was n'ry little, as you knO\\'. The fielrJ I
hopp(\might Ix' Smith's field is not the right one, for I find that though a :\[('8>'1"><.
Smith and Kinsie had it between 1840 and HI,)\), it belonged to a Venable. family for-
a great many years before then-certainly in lK2i!.
I funnd auother promising old man, Mr. }'orge, between 70 and SO, who wa.q born
in the town and ha..q har! much til do with pari.h business, ha\'ing been an ovel'!leer-
for many years in the past. He could not be brought to remember any of the things
we wnnt; but he told me where an old assellSment book was stored away at the Tov.-n
Hall. I therefore called upon the Town Clerk amI prevailed upon him to come to th..
Town Hnll to inspect this book. He came, and kindly examined both this and mnny
other likely books. some going back as far I\.~ 1827, but not a trace of Smith's fi..ld
could we find in any of them. The Town Clerk (who is also an overs!'!'r), a "ery
intelligent and pl"asant man. has been connected with pari.h affairs all his liff', and
he did all in his power to help. He know" one or two old people living on the out.~kirts
of the pari'h, and will tap their memories for us; he declared that thl'Y Wl're s<>
uneducated and suspicious that it would he useles" for me to visit them.
:\11'. Samuel Glenm'Y, a descendant of the" Glenney's Part" people, who is nO\\"
V...try Clf'rk, havin~ control of local plans anrl assessment books, ami who has liw·d
in the neighbourhood over 50 years, cannot remember a Smith's field adjoining any of
their family property.
I examined an ordnance map, dnter! 1863, at the Town Hall. Then' are tArtt:
" Glonny'" " Part. shown, pretty close together, near the vicarage and glebe land.
Only one of these plots had a pond-now filled U[> of course, for an the nl'ighhourhood
is built upon-and on the comer of this plot a BJllith]1 is marked. N(lW it is n•.>t
improbnble that this fact may have gil'en risc to the field being called .. Smith'" field "-
at any rate by the RChool boys; and if so, it i3 not to be wondered at that 1\.'IS(.'ssml'nt
hOilk. and plans fail to show the place under that name. The supposition is not ro
unlikely, for the Barking people have a wny of giving nl\IIll'S to localiti{·. in this
ll\nnner; for instance, there is a lane helonging to one man but named after another
lIlan who happens to hl\\'e a slaughtel'-hou,e nt the end of it. It SCl'IIlS quite probable
that the fil'ld with the .mithy in it would get called "Smith's field," even though it.
belonged in reality to 1\lr. Glenney, and the fact that there were two otht'r fields bf.-
lunging to members of the Glenney family quite close by _ms to make it more
probahle. At any rate this field with the smithy in it WI\!! the only one that appea'" to
hn\'l' had anything of a pond. The smithy st()()(i at the corner of the field, and would
hn\'e been l~'\"sed on the way from the vicarage to the pond, which latter was halfway
down the field on 0111' 8ide of it, [See next page.] But still, although this theory will
give u. n ~Illith'g field independent of aS8e'~lllent books and maps, it will not gil'e n"
a 111>'. 8I11it". nor will it help us to discO\'er the Smith OO!/I, There is only one rt>mainin;r
chnn<'t'-tbe &'111 Guarantee Society. This ~ociety caHoots the tithes for the parish of
Barking, nnd the secretary is said to poRt!eS8 old records which Illay put U8 on t.hl'right
road. I lu\Vc written to make an appointment with this gentleman, who is 0111y at
the office, in London, on certain days.
Digitized by Goo~
Certain Phenornen(t of Trance. 557
I cou1<.l not find II. Rodney family in the local directory of recent date-a very
lDiperfect production. Nor were old inhabitants able to remember such a family
living in the neighbourhood 50 or GO years back. Are you sure there 100' a family!
There might have been a John Rodney without a (amily of Rodneys [I'. 550, and
below].
Mrs. Piper has certainly be.s.ten me. My inquiries in modem Barking yield less
information than she gave. Yet the most skilful agent could have done no more than
.secure the assistance of the local record keepers and the oldeNt inhabitants living. I
have failed up to the present to prove from records that there was a Smith'. field, and
therefore cannot trace the Smith boys. I cannot find anyone who remembers the
-creek incident; nor can I learn anything whatever about Mrs. Cannon from the old
JleOple.
Orlo/)cr 10th, 1890.
The Tithe Collecting Agrn1:Y is a failure. The secretary has no old records, and
no possible means whatever of assisting us to discover Smith's field. I have no fu\'th"r
idea..~ at present. Can you suggest anything!
G. ALBERT SMITH.
ADDITIONAL NOTES.
October 23rd, 1890.
In order to obtain verification or the opposite for as lllany of the state-
Dlents regarding things unknown to me 1\8 possible, I wrote at ll\st to Illy
uncle Frnnk in Cornwall (p. 5~6), informing him fully of the circumstances
<)f the investigation and requesting his aid. He compll\ins that his memory
iH not so good now as it was even six months ago, but he hllH favoured llle
with some infonuation which is useful so far as it goos. The following
J\re extracts from his letters ;-
(Referring to episode mentioned on p. 500.) .. I re~ollect very well my fight with
a boy in the cow·field. It took place when I was ten yeare old (about 1822), and I
.suppose a bit of a boy·bully. We had no quarrel but merely fought to see which
was best man, and when my opponent considered he had had enough, instead of
giving in in the usual manner, he bolted like a lamp·lighter. The reason I remember
.80 well about this is because before the fight the general opinion was that the othE'r
boy would beat me easily, and as a result of my success a boy two years older and
much bigger and stronger than myself was picked out from the village to fight me,
and gave me a tremend'Jus thrashing. At eleven I W/\II sent to sea.
U I don't at all recollect the name of the boy who ran away." .. I recollect his
father saying if he caught hold of me he would give me a good hiding."
(In answer to a question as t·o huw .. Smith's field" (1'. 527) came by its name, and
whether it had anything todn with a smithy, p. 556.) ., There was a blacksmith'. ~hOI)
nE'ar the town end of this field, but I du not think it had any reference to the name of
the field. It was called Smith'. field becau"" the occupier's name was Smith, I believe."
(In answer to a question about the U Smith boys," p. 521.) .. There Wall a man
named Smith, a publican, the Hnme who made the remark about the 'd-d young
J.odges.' (See notes at end of ]o"irst Series.) He had children, but I remember nothing
of them except one boy, and the reason I recollect him is because the parish of Barking
had the nomination of a boy for the BIuecoat School. I was nominau'<i by my "e()~l(>
ann 1\ young Smith by his; Smith was elected, ann consequently the whole conrse of
DIy life was changed."
(In answer to quc.I!tion8 about U ncle Jerry, p. 521.) ..I do not think the fall from
a hOl'!!e had anything to do with bringing on his blindness. He was always near·
Highted, and used to wear spectacles at school, but 1 do not think I W/\II in England
at the time of his fall." .. I recollect nothing whatever abont any ring of hi. " (refer-
ring to a statement on p. 508).
2 Q
!S58 A ReCO'IU of Obsert:atiQ'll8 of
(3) PART II.
By'" ALTER LEAF, Lln.D.
The series of sittings held by Mrs. Piper at Liverpool forms a set
distinct to some extent from the rest in quality as weH as in matter~
and has therefore been treated apart, for com-enience' sake, hy
Professor Lodge. It was remarkable, as compared with those which have-
now to be considered, for a high level of success. At Cambridge, as in
London, success and failure alternated in a puzzling manner. In a.
large number of ca.<;es particles of intuition were f.>mbedded in a mass
of vague, uninteHigible, or distinctly "fishing" conversation. The-
sittings, however, have the advantage of throwing a great deal of light
upon the working of the medium's secondary personality, and desen·e-
theref.,re as careful study as those of more uniform quality. The plan
adopted in dealing with them has been to set out first the most remark-
able from an evidential point of view, and- then a few of those which
give the most unfavourable side of Dr. Phinuit's personality; for as a.
distinct personality we shall have to regard him. The remainder are
collected in the Appendix in an abbreviated form.
Before entering upon details, it is necessary to give a general view
of the conditions under which the London sittings took place. Mr_
Myf.>rs has already done this for Cambridge. In London the same-
precautions were of course taken to introduce all sitters, not previously
known to 1\1rs. Piper, under feigned names. The possibility of gaining
information by local gossip, which has to be taken into account in
Cambridge and even in Liverpool, was here excluded by the circum-
stances of the case ; and the same may be said of another supposed
source of information, that by inquiry from servants. The first nine-
sittings were held at MI"S. Piper's lodgings, No. 2;, Montagu-stree~
W.C. The owners of the lodgings could not possibly have known
anything of Dr. Myers, by whom the arrangements were madf.>_
When Mrs. Piper came to London for the second time, she was l<)(lged
at a private hotel not far from my residence, where the possibility of
information was equally excluded. She sat several times at my house,
and dined there on one occasion ; but she was under close observation
an the timf.>, and it is perfectly certain that she had no chance of
" pumping" any of the servants, nor indeed are any of the statement&
which she made such as could possibly be accounted for by such
c1l1Ulnels of information. One sitting, perhaps the most remarkable of
the series, took place at Mr. Clarke's house at Harrow. Here it may-
be said that there was II. possible source of inquiry; for Mrs. Piper had
not only met Mr. Clarke in America, but had crossed the Atlantic 00.
Digitized by Google
Oe'1'ictin PhenOrfte'lUt of Tr£l1'U'e. 559
the same steamer with him; and it will be suggt'sted, no doubt, that
she had succeeded in pumping him as to his wife's family in the course
of conversation. That any man could have imparted unconsciously
such curious and unusual family histories as those told to 1\Irs. Clarke
would be amazing enough. The supposition is simply impossible to those
who have had the opportunity of watching 1\Irs. Piper, and estimating the
singularly limited range of her conversation, and its inadequacy for the
subtle designs attributed to it. Moreover, some of the facts stated were
unknown to Mr. Clarke himself till he heard them asserted by the
medium and confirmed by his wife. Both Mr. and Mrs. Clarke are
intimately known to me ; and no better evidence than theirs could
possibly be desired. Mrs. Clarke is a German by birth, and has been
in England only since her marriage. The facts stated to her refer
entirely to members of her family in Germany. Nothing short of a
detective employed by Mrs. Piper in Munich would have availed to
get her the knowledge which she showed.on the occasion of her sitting
with Mrs. Clarke.
The Same may be said of the only two other London sittings which
are published at length, as being of evidential importance. My sister-
in-law, Mrs. H. Leaf, was introduced to 1\Irs. Piper at the lodgings
in Manchester-street, where Mrs. Piper had arrived the day before,
and was immediately told a number offacts of almost all of which I was
myself quite ignorant, as they referred to various cousins of hers whose
names I had not to my knowledge ever heard. Mr. Pye is a friend
whom I have known for many years, but of whose family I know only
one or two members. What was stated to him was entirely outside
my own knowledge. Of the other sittings the most remarkable was
undoubtedly Miss" Gertrude C.'s." As will be seen from her report,
Appendix, Nos. 29 and 31, the best part of this was of so private a
nature that practically very little can be published. Of the facts which
have had to be reserved it is quite clear that no means, not even the
most astute detective, could have obtained knowledge of them; they
were secrets which were the property of one, or at most of two or
threa persons.
In addition to this there is the conviction which I strongly feel, in
common, I think, with all those who h8\"e seen much of Mrs. Piper,
that she is absolutely honest. This of course refers to her nonna}
state; as to the view to be taken of the Phinuit personality there will
be more to be said hereafter. But as to the first and most obvious
question, whether she consciously acquires knowledge with regard to
her sitters, with the intention of deceiving, I may say most positively
that I regard such a supposition as entirely untenabll;l.
The question of the amount of communication existing between the
two states is in the nature of the case obscure, and the evidence, so far
2 Q 2
Digitized by Google
l560 .A Recm-d of ObBe'f'1-'CttiO"n8 of
as I h&\'e been able to see, is mainly negative. Dr. Phinuit makes many
statements which may easily have been learnt by Mrs. Piper; he in
several cases, for instance, took pains to describe the personal appeal'-
ance of his sitters. On the other hand, knowledge about them and their
surroundings, which Mrs. Piper certainly possessed, was not as a rule
given by Phinuit. It may of course be said that this was done in order
to obscure his methods, and I am inclined, judging fl-om what I have
seen of the character of Phinuit, his shrewdness and his desire to
appear marvellous, to t.hink that this is very possible; though it seems
somewhat inconsistent with the different course taken by him in the
cases just mentioned, and still more with his habit of noting correc-
tions or hints given him during a sitting, and attempting to bring
them out after a short interval as though they were his own. One
observation bearing on this point. was made by Mrs. Verrall. In her
three sittings, her eldest girl was frequently mentioned, but her name,
which she had never mentioned to Mrs. Piper, was not given. After
her last sitting, No. 63, she purposely took an opportunity of calling
the child" Helen" in Mrs. Piper's presence. At the very next sitting
where Mrs. Verrall was mentioned, that of Mrs. B., No. 66, Helen was
named by Dr. Phinuit. There is therefore ground for supposing that,
as in the case of other secondary personalities which have been studied,
the abnormal state is conscious of what goes on in the normal, but not
vice versa; but that this connexion is purposely obscured. That Dr.
Phinuit is what he gives himself out, the spirit of a departed Marseillais
physician, I may say at once that I do not see the least ground for
believing. His own word does not, in view of his moral standard, apart
from other considerations, carry even a presumption of veracity; nor
has a single one of the numerous statements he has made as to his life
on earth proved capablc of verification. On the other side his complete
ignorance of French is a positive ground for disbelieving hiDI, and one
which he has never been able to explain.
Phinuit in fact exhibits just the low moral tone which we so often
find in table-talking, planchette, and other manifestations, as we now
regard them, of the secondary self. He swears freely, and indulges in
slang of the vulgar New England sort, in a way quite alien from the
manners of Mrs. Piper. This is of course a trifle; but it is more serious
when we find him continually making attempts to deceive. If he is
not able to make a right statement, he is always ready with a guess of
more or less ingenuity to conceal his ignorance, or at least with some
ambiguity or subterfuge which should make a show of turning the
difficulty. Hardly a sitting passed without his making at least a. few
statements which were altogether wrong. It is this which consti-
tutes the chief obstacle to coming to a positive dedsion as to many of
the facts.
Digitized by Google
Certain Phe'twmena of Trance. 561
We must therefore attempt to give some idea of the methods which
were employed to obtain direction from the sitters in case correct
knowledge fa.iled ; or, if this information could not be extracted, to
make lucky guessing supply its place. For this purpose two of the
worst sittings have been given fully, that the reader may form his own
OpinIOn. Miss Johnson's first sitting has also been published, with 1\
commentary which will show how hard it is to be sure that fishing does
not enter into statements which may at first seem satisfactory.
In thus taking the part of an advocatu8 diaboli, and pressing to the
utmost all objections which can be urged against the genuineness of
the phenomena, it is almost inevitable that one should give a somewhat
misleading perspective of the impression which the evidence has pro-
duced upon a spectator. In order so far as possible to correct this
impression at the outset, I repeat with all emphasis that the c:on-
jectural analysis of Phinuit's methods is very far from covering all the
statements which he made. His supposed fishing was employed, if at
ull, only when the supernormal power was for a time in abeyance;
possibly it is only an imagination of my own. But even with all risk
of being misunderstood, it seems essential that this side should be put
forward, if only to show that the investigators were fully alive to all
the various methods by which it might be possible to take advantage
of their cl·ellulity or careles'Iness. The more I consider the whole of
the evidence, the more I remain convinced that it gives proof of a real
supernormal power, subject, however, under conditions at which we can
hardly even guess, to periods of temporary eclipse.
Unfortunately it is not possible to reduce the chances of a right.
guess to anything like numel·ical values. In a few cases only can we
even {Ol·m an approximation. Take, for instance, a favourite state-
ment: "You have a father and mother, one (or both) in the body
(or, in the spirit)," as the case may be. Here evidently the possible
alternatives are four, and the chances against a right guess would seem
to be three to one. But it is evident that the apparent age of the
Ritter would give a certain additional help to a guess. In some cases,
with an elderly sitter, the statement, "You have both parents in the
spirit," would be almost a certainty.
So again with the case of names. Phinuit wa.'! not fond of giving
surnames, but at times he did so. Sometimes he was strikingly right;
atotller times he condescended to such phrases as "You know Smith,"
or "How is Harris 1" with less success than might have been expected.
But it is hopeless here to attempt to say what the chances of success
are. In the case of Christian names the case is not really better. 1£
we had to deal only with utterances such as " Then I get a William," or
"There is a Henry in your surroundings," we might have formed some
rough idea of the proportion of persons of whom this would be true.
Digitized by Goo~
562 .A Record of Observations of
But the case becomes hopeless when this sort of thing is mixed up with
"You have a brother John; no-a brother-in-law." It is only possible
to record the fact that such expressions were frequently used, that they
were sometimes successful and sometimes wrong, and that they are so
obviously tainted with the suspicion of being used for purposes of
fishing that t.hey are of no value as evidence. A rough counting of the
number of Christian names given shows that William was the most
frequent, and the most often right; but this is only what would be
expected on the hypothesis either of fraud or of imperfect though
authentic information, since 'William is the commonest male Christ.ian
name in England. &)lne names were, however, given with a frequency
which leads to the supposition that they were systematically employed
for fishing with. One of them is Alec or Alex, which met with much
more success than would have been supposed likely in a series of sittings
held south of the Tweed. Another name was" Ed." This was one of
the commonest. As Mr. Barkworth points out, it has the advantagl' of
standing for the four names Edward, Edwin, Edgar, and Edmund.
Once, when none of these was recognised by a sitter, it was apparently
turned into "Head"; "what's the matter with head 1" (p. 487).
Another name is "Loo," which has the useful property of standing at
need either for a woman, Louisa, or a man, Louis. Cases in which it
was successful in both functions will be found among the records.
A certain vagueness and imperfect.ion of pronunciation, consistent
with Phinuit's assumption of French origin, was also taken advantage
of in order to increase the latitude with which names could be changed
from one to another. Thus .Vary was always called Ma·ri.e, which
evidently made it. easy to change to l\iaria when necessary. Alice is made
to do duty for Agnes (see Professor Rendall's sitting, p. 478), and in
Miss Johnson's sitting (p. 609) it will be found that John is changed into
George by an ingenious process. It is of course possible that in these
msea the real reason of the uncertainty may have been that given by
Phinuit, that his modes of obtaining knowledge were not clear; but as
n matter of evidence we must assume that in all cases the changes were
only a means of obtaining direct information from the sitter.
It is probable that here a certain amount of muscle-reading was
called into play as a guide to a right conclusion. The medium usually
sat with the hand of the sitter pressed to her forehead. The attitude
is a fll.Yourite one with so-called thought-reading performers. Uncon-
scious indications would no doubt be given when the name first guessed
was anywhere near the mark, and would easily, by known methods, be
followed up to a completely right conclusion. The same ml'ans may
have been used in the localisation of complaints. A very common
statement was that some relation of the sitter was lame in the knee,
or still more commonly that he had rheumatism there. This was usually
Digitized by Google
Ce-riain Plte'lwmena of T,'ance. 563
accompanied by 0. grasping of the knee, which suggests muscle-reading.
In one case the suffering wo.s followed downwards and rightly located
in the toe.1 At other times the pain wo.s said to be in the head-head-
aches or neuralgia. This wo.s equally accompanied by feeling over the
lIitter's head. Not only are rheumatism and headaches two of the
commonest of complaints, and the most likely to be guessed right, but
the knee and the head were the most accessible portions of the sitter's
frame, and those about which unconscious information could best be
given. "Suffering from a cold," too, wo.s a favourite diagnosis. As the
sittings took place in December and January, and the later ones during
the height of the inftuenza. epidemic, it is not to be wondered at that
this was generally admitted to be correct.
I have now gone through all the possible explanations of divination
by fraud which after a careful study of the whole of the eyidence I am
able to suggt.'st. It will be found that they are far from covering the
whole of the facts. But they will show that we must assume as worth-
les.~ all single Christian names even when given o.s those of n. definite
relation. We can take names o.s positive evidence only when correctly
given in series and without fishing.
Another peculiarity of Dr. Phinuit's, which does not tend to raise
our opinion of his veracity, nor indeed of his shl'ewdUE"ss, ho.s been
noticed by several sitters. This is that when a statement of his ho.s
been corrected, or information directly given him, by the sitter, he
would take no notice of it at the time, but bring it out after a while as
if it were an original piece of knowledge of his own. The device is too
transparent to need much notice, though, as Phinuit has had a large
experience of his business, it is likely enough that he has found it
useful at times.
There will of course be no presumption in favour of Phinuit's
'Veracity when he represents the messages he gives o.s being told to him
by the defunct friends of the sitter. The question whether this may
not after all be the eo.siest explanation is, however, definitely raised by
the material before us, and is by far the most serious point which we
have to face, It is our first duty to see if we cannot find an explana-
tion without recourse to a supposition which is to most of us one of the
least probable that could be made.
Setting o.side the hypothesis that Mrs. Piper in her normal state
le:1.I'ns the facts which Phinuit communicate:!, as untenahle, and the
.alternative, that Phinuit obtains them dUI'ing the sittings, partly hy
ingenious and systematic guessing, partly by help unconsciously
furnished to him hy the sitters, o.s insufficient, there remains a third :
.that he ohtains them by n. process of thought-transference from the
.sitter's mind.
1 Set, No. 6!1, I>' 644; amI compare p. 610.
Digitized by Google
5640 A Reco,,,/l of Observation.s of
Will thought.transference then suffice to explain the whole of the
puzzling facts which we have to deal with 1 My own belief is that it.
will. Indeed it is only in avery few cases that the question arises at.
all. The primary point is naturally to know if the sitter was told
anything which was nCJt and could not ha\'e been within his own know-
ledge, but which yet turns out to be true. Nothing short of this will
give us a valid division between thought-transference and communi-
cation fl"Om intelligences other than our own.
Now thought-transference in the pl'f.'sent case, if thought-transfer-
cnce there be, is concerned,not with the normal consciousnellS, but ,,;t1.
what we now call the sub-consciousness. It has nothing to do with
thought-reading as commonly understood, in which it is necellSary that
the agent should steadily fix his thoughts upon the idea or picture
which he desires to transfer to the mind of the percipient. The
thoughts which are transferred are by no means, as a rule, those which
were uppermost in the sitter's mind at the time; the statements made
are rather of old and often half-forgott.en facts, while distinct attempts.
sometimes made by the sitter to obtain a deliverance as to particular
matters which he had vividly before him resulted as a rule-I cannot
say if always-in failure.
Now we know little enough as yet about the sub-consciousness; but
we have at least good grounds for supposing that no impression once
made upon it is ever lost. The conscious memory is in itself no guide
I\S to what the contents of the sub-consciousness may 01' Dlay not ht>.
There is no need, therefOl't', to assume, at our present stage of know-
ledge, anything more than this unlimited retentiveness of the sub-
consciousness and the powel' of reading it, in order to account for the
reproduction of anything whatever which may at any time have been
presented to the consciousness. And who can say definitely what be
lIlay not have beard in childhood, for instance, in the conversations of
his elders; things which he did not understand, and which may ha\'e
long since passed out of the conscious memory of the elders themselves,
if they still live and can be asked 1 There is nothing more wonderful
in the supposed reproduction of such casual knowledge, thought-
transference once granted, than in the fl,miliar case of the Hebrew
repeated by the delirious peasant girl, learnt unconsciously from the
recitations of her fOI'mer master. Take, for instance, the messages sent
by Unele Jerry to Pl'ofessor Lodge. The story of swimming the creek
is striking enough, but what proof can there be that it was not told by
Unele Jerry himself 01' one of his brothers to Professor Lodge in his
childhood 1 If it was, then in Professor Lodge's brain it must have
heen ever since, ready to be deciphered by any intelligence possessed of
the means of reading a sub-consciousness. .
The assumption of thought-reading as a reality leads us farther, into.
Digitized by Google
Certa'in PhmuYTlum.a of Trance. 565
l-eginns of pure hypothesis, which cannot, however, be ignored when such
all alternative hypothesis is set up for our acceptance as the communi-
cation of departed spirits with the living. If thought-transference is
possible at all, it seems likely that it is a function of the under self, not;
of the upper self, for it is in manifestations of the under self that we
ha.ve had our best experimental proofs; in the hypnotic sleep and ill
automatic writing, where the functions of the upper self are for the time
su!)pended. If then this under self, of whose workings we are only s()
irl-egularly and so imperfectly conscious, has such susceptibility t()
other minds at all, it is no wild assumption to suppose that it is
continually receh"ing impressions from other minds, indeed from every
other mind in the universe, with varying clearness and force depending
011 some condition.<; which we cannot at present even guess at. Only
under certain rare conditions do such impacts succeed in transferring
themselves to the upper consciousness, in the form of hallucination or
automatic action. Still more rarely do we find another sub-conscious-
ness so susceptible that, like an instrument of extreme delicacy, it is
able to record the impression which such past impacts have made upon
us" The physical analogies of such n. solidarity of all minds are obvious
ellough, but must not be pressed. It is sufficient to say that, once
gl"anting the reality of thought-transference acting between strata of
personality of whose existence we are only sporadically conscious, such
a theory in itself contains nothing more bewildering or less conceivable
than the mutual interaction of all the material particles of the universe
asserted in the law of gravitation.
Such a hypothesis would lead to the conclusion that we cali hav6
no experimental proof of the existence of departed spirits. For there
can be no certainty that anything which was once in any human mind,
evell if no longer in being, was not once recorded in another with
clearness enough to enable its transmission and ultimate recovery.
The possibility of the existence of other than human intelligences
still would be within the rimge of proof; for it is quite conceivable
that knowledge might be conveyed to us which was never in any living
human mind at all.
This, however, is not of vital importance for our present purpose; for
so fn.r as I can see the few facts stated which the sitters declare were
unknown to them at the time may all be explained either by successful
guessing or by forgotten knowledge of childhood or of later years.
Still, as the hypothesis of spiritual communication is in the field, it is
well to show that a natural, if as yet quite arbitrary, deduction from
theories which we believe to be proved will account for all phenomena
which might be brought forward in support of the existence of disem-
bodied spirits capable of mn.king themselves known to us.
Among the different sittings will be found a few cases of attempted
Digitized by Google
.566 A Reco/·d of ObSe1'VatWJl.8 of
clairvoyance-the description of actioi.s which were being performed
at the moment by persons in a different place from that where the
sitting was. These were in many cases complete failures. They gener·
ally referred to people well known to the sitter, and, where compara-
til'ely accurate, they hardly surpassed what might be explained by
thought-transference from the sitter's mind, as he would naturally be
able to give a pretty good guess. This, for instance, would explain the
account given to Mrs. Verrall in No. 63 ; she knew that it was the
time when her husband, a tutor of Trinity, would be likely to be seeing
his pupils. Miss Johnson, too, in No. 67, would have an idea of the
probable, or at least possible surroundings of her brother at the time.
Mrs. Sidgwick has reported upon the experiments which she and her
husband made together ; they cannot be considered very cogent, as it
is impossible to apply any calculation of chances to them. The
account given to Mrs. B. of the actions of Mrs. Verrall, No. 66, is
more unusual in its charn.cter, but Mrs. B. is well acquainted with
Mrs. Verrall, and her experiments in "crystal-gazing," so that a chance
coincidence is by no means out of the question. The most difficult
of all these experiments to explain is that of Mr. Gonner's, p. 4&8,
where the actions of his mother in London at the time, 01' rather a few
miuutes before, were told with a close approach to accuracy. Here
again, however, but for the a.o;surance that 1rlrs. Gonner was not in
the habit of going out of doors at the time referred to, one would have
said that the action of putting on out-of-door clothing at 11 o'clock
a.m. was not beyond the possibility of a right guess. If, however, this
theory of mera guessing be not accept.ed, we should have to recur to
the idea of a real telepathic thought-transference operating at the
'time from Mrs. Gonner to her son, and read as soon as the impression
J'eached the mind of the sitter, who thus acted at the same time as
percipient and agent. There seems to me to be no a p1'iori ground
Jlgainst such an idea; but the experiments made were too few, and the
lll'oportion of failures was too large to allow any weight whateyer to
be laid upon them.
A word may be said as to the prophecies which were freely given
to all the sitters, but which have been omitted from the sittings
reported in brief, as having obviously no evidential mlue. Some of
them referred to the comparatively distant future, and haye not hacl
time to fulfil themselves. This, however, does not much matter, as some
have had their opportunity and have missed it, or at best haye fulfilled
themselves about as fairly as the forecasts of a sensible mall would be
likely to do. See, for instance, Mr. Clarke's Ilotes, Nos. 3, p. 569, and 21,
p. 5i2. There has not been It single case to indicate that Philluit
has any power of foretelling the future superior to that of his sitters.
Everything, therefore, so far as I have yet seen, points to thought-
Oe'riai'lt Pltenomena of Trance. 567
transference being an adequate explanation of the phenomena, at least
if we give to it the extension which has been indicated above, that
Phinuit was able to detect mental impressions transferred to his sitters
from those closely connected with them, and transferred at the very
time of the sitting. Several instructive incidents point directly
against any knowledge derived from the spirits of the dead. For
instance, in Mrs. H. Leaf's first sitting a question was put about
.. Harry," whose messages Phinuit purported to be giving: "Did he
leave a wife 1"1 No answer wns given to this at the time, hut in
accordance with Phinuit's frequent practice the supposed hint wa.<J
stored up for future use; and at Mrs. H. Leafs next sitting she was
told, "Harry sends his love to his wife."2 Now, as a matter of fact
Harry never was married. In Mrs. B.'s second sitting and in Mrs.
A.'s account of her brother's suffering in the arm, wrong facts were
stated which corresponded to the sitter's belief. This evidently
indicates thought-transference, not spiritual communication. See also
Mr. Clarke's note as to the statement that a man had been left to look
after his house in England, and as to his suspicions of his friend.' In
a few cases only sitters thought that the course of their own iden.s was
followed as fresh ones were suggested to them by the remarks made by
Phinuit ; but the evidence for this is naturally not clear. Mr. Pye
mentions an instance in his report.'
On the whole, then, the effect which a careful study of all the reports
of the English sittings has left in my mind is this: That Dr. Phinuit
is only a name for Mrs. Piper's secondary personality, assuming the
name and acting the part with the aptitude and consistency which is
shown by secondary personalities in other known cases; that in this
abnormal state there is a quite exceptional power of reading the
contents of the minds of sitters; but;. that this power is far from
complete. It gets only glimpses of what is stored up in the memory,
and this without any clear distinctioll of that which is present to the
mind at the time from the forgotten memories, if the phrase may be
used, of the past. The stray hints thus caught may sometimes fall
togethel' into consistent groups, in which case we have a successful
sitting ; or, and this is more usual, they may present themselves only
as fragtuents. Phinuit ~ excessively desirous of impressing himself
upon his hearers as a being of superhuman powers; and when he gets
but fragmentary pictures he does not hesitate to piece them together
with guesswork, often of the wildest kind. Sometimes he gets not
even a glimpse of what the sitter's mind contains; he then has recourse
to guessing pure aud simple. In his guessing he shrewdly takes
advantage of help afforded him by his sitters, throwing out genel'llol
I See p. 595. 3 pp. 571, 573.
, See Appendix No. 53. ~ p.600.
Digitized by Google
568 A Record of Observations of
statements, and watching the effect they produce in order to guide
himself. It is probable, but by no means certain, that he also gets help
from muscle-reading, chiefly in the location of complaints. He takes
advantage of any hints that may be thrown out, and attempts to dress
them up as statements of his own, bringing them out after an interval
in order that their real origin may be forgotten. In short, he omits
no means of disguising his ignorance, e,oen descending at times to
downright denial of what he has just said in order to cover a blunder.
It is unfortunate that the statements which he makes are rarely or
ne,oer of such a nature as to admit even an approximate application of
the doctrine of chances, especially as we have nothing like nrbatim
reports of most of the sittings, and the amount of fishing can only be
estimated when the exact words are known.
The reader must, however, fonn his own judgments from the reports
themselves, which we now proceed to giye. 'l'hey are mostly but
partial accounts from rough notes made at the time, and in some cases
supplemented by the sitter's memory. But in order that a fair idea.
may be fonnecl of what a sitting was really like, one, that of Mrs.
Hcrbel1; Leaf, has been printed at length from shorthand notes, not
indeed verbatim, but containing, I believe, almost everything that was
said with the exception of the repetitions and inaccuracies of expression
which are usual in conversation, and in no way affect the evidlmce.
It will be seen that there is a great mass of verbiage used apparently
only to fill up the time, and so far as can be judged not of the least
importance in the way of getting Phinuit any information. It would
have heen but a waste of trouble and expense to attempt n. reproductioll
of this in every case. The same sitting will give a good example
of the "tailing off" whieh was so often observed towards the end of a
sitting, and which has been already noticed by Mr. Myers. It may be
remarked that this is the opposite of what would have been expected
if illformn.tion was mainly extracted from the sitters themselves;
for it would seem obvious that the more Phinuit guessed the better he
would be able to piece his knowledge together, so that the end of a
sitting, like the last cards of a hand at whist, should show more know-
ledge n.nd less conjecture thn.n the beginning.
We take first the sitting of Mr. J. T. Clarke at Professor W.
In.mes's house n.t Chocorua, New Hampshire. Although this does not,
strictly spooking, belong to the English series, it is more conveniently
!,riven here, as severn.l allusions were made to it in the subsequent
sitting with Mr. and Mrs. Clarke at their house in Harrow. Mr.
Cln.rke was in September, 1889, on a hurried business visit to America.
Though it would hn.ve been oosy for Mrs. Piper to acquire knowledge
of his relations and friends in Boston, it will be seen that what was
t<lld him was entirely about his English surroundings, of which she
Digitized by Google
Certain 'Phenomena of Tr(tnce. 569
could have learnt little or nothing on the other side of the Atlantic.
His wife and children have never been in America. The annotations
are by Mr. Clarke..
Ghocorll~I., Nelo Hampshire, in MtC8e of D/.. William Jamu,
September 20th, 1889.
Sitting with Mr. Clarke, Mr. Hodgson taking notes. Mr. Clarke fixes
his mind steadily upon a certain house, and visualises members of family;
of this no recognition by medium, who begins:
Why! I know you! I have seen your influence somewhere before! what
are you doing over here 1
1. This secondary consciousness, the clairvoyant or thought.reading
consciousness of the medium, had become acquainted with my
individuality through frequent sittings with intimate friends. It
had seen me as thoy knew mo, under different surroundings. It had
in former sittings with these friends made mention of me and of my
mother.
Oh! there is lots of trouble over you, bla.ck clouds all over you ; but I
see light beyond; you will come out all right. It is financial trouble that I
mean. You will wade through it all right in the end.
2. Correct. My visit to America was determined by a financial failure,
the loss from which I was then endeavouring to minimise.
" How long hence 1"
Four months or four months and a·half. There are parties that hal'en't
den.lt honourably with you.
3. The prediction is, as the case has proved, valueless. As for the
accusation against the "parties" referred to, we have in it a
peculiarly interesting point. The statement in itself was absolutely
untrue. I was soon thereafter able to assure myself that the
action of the men in question had been entirely honourable and
loyal towards me and my interests, but Illy mind at the time
undeniably entertained some apprehension lest the facts should
prove to have been otherwise. This dread did not even amount to
a suspicion which I could have formulated, or would have admitted
to myself, still less to others, and the detection of such a lurking
distrust is particularly interesting as an evidence of the closeness of
communication existing between mind and mind, under this abnor-
mal mental condition. Compare the similar case remarked upon
in Note 15.
I see your lady in the spirit, your mother,-have seen her before.
4. As to the acquaintance of this secondary consciousness of the medium
with the individuality of my mother, see Note 1.
(There followed a clear account of my own conception of my mother,
recently deceased, whose constant presence in my mind readily aecounta
for the frequent mentions of her.)
You've also got a lady in the body, your wife. You won't find her very
well.
5. Prophecy wrong. My wife never better in health.
Do you know a man named Williams-no, wait! Williamson 1 (Reply,
.. No.") Tall, rather dark, first llame Henery (sir). He will come into your
surroundings soon-he will have something to do with your papers and with
Digitized by Google
570 A Record of Obse1'Vati011,8 of
law. He will look after your interests and get you out all right. You will
meet him very soon-within a few weeks.
6. Interesting point. The name of the lawyerintrusted with the defenclll
of my interests in the financial trouble before referred to, viz.,
LamberlM.lII, had been communicated to me 10 days previous to the
sitting. and was written down by me in a note-book. and then com-
pletely forgotten. I could not have correctly recalled it by an effort
of the memory, but might have come about as near to it in sound and
length as did the clairvoyant. I have never known anybody
named WilUltlllSml. The description of the personal appearance
and the mention of the Christian name are consequently wholly
gratuitous.
Part of your intereat is in the ground ; you came near being "left" in in
this business, but are not altogether.
7. Correct. Property consisted of a town lot and buildings, and I cer-
tainly felt that I had come near losing it.
"Tell me about my mother."
Your mother is with us. She is here and happy in the spirit.
S. This, I take it, is the way that mediums, burdened with the conven-
tional "iews and the phrases customary in Spiritualistic circles, find
it most natural to expre88 the conception which they receive from
another nlind of a person being a memory, an image of the mind M
opposed to a living reality. That which is borne in my mind as a.
visualisation appears in the clairvoyant phraseology as a spirit.
See in this regard the indication remarked upon in Note 16. :
Who is this M., your cousin 1 Your mother says she is not very well.
She is getting better, but she will continue weak.
9. The health of the person referred to, tlwugh inlproved at the time,
had caused both myself and my mother much solicitude. I have
noticed, however, that the phrase, " Your mother says" or "Your
mother tells me" has no particular significance. Witne88 the
trivial instance of the lost pocket-knife, to be mentioned later,
Note 25.
"Can you sec my children ?..
Wait. Who is this about you that is musical, that plays the
piano (imitating action of fingers) 1 Ah, it is your lady in the body. She is
not very well just now-she is suffering from rheumatism.
10. My wife plays the piano much. As to her health, my own solicitude
was undoubtedly father to the prophecy, which was altogether
wrong. My wife was well, and has never suffered from rheumatism.
" Do you see my children 1"
No, not at all yet; I shall directly. Wait. Who is tIlls Fred that
comes together with your mother?
11. A cousin lost at sea 10 years ago, under peculiarly shocking circum-
stances. His death made a great imprussion upon me.
Is he not your cousin 1
"Yes."
He comes with your mother. She knows him better now than she did
before death. Who is this uncle of youl'll named John 1
"I have no Uncle John."
Yes, yes, you have-tlle man that married your aunt.
Digitized by Google
Certain Phen011H'l!o, of Trance. 571
"No, you are wrong; the man that married my aunt was called
Philip."
Well, I think I know. (Changes subject, grumbling.)
12. As the dialogue shows, I had entirely forgotten for the moment that
nn aunt of mine hnd indeed man-ied a man named John, with whom
I had fonnerly had some correspondence. I did not recollect this
until the following day. This is a clear instance of the method in
which the clairvoyant may dmw from the reservoir of our conscious-
ness, as it were, and can eyen recall to us facts which we have
temporarily furgotten.
'Vhy ~ you are a funny fellow-you are covered with paint from head to
foot. Your mother says it is too bad.
13. I had been much interested in painting the walls of a room, in the
house of Illy friend, for some days previously.
I'd like to know who this H. is, tlmt you are going to see. Take good
care of that man. He is a tricky une. Don't let him get you. into his
power.
14. This is an altogether unjust accuMtion, based upon an unwarrant-
able distrust entertained by me at the time with respect t.o the
friend named, whom I had not seen for 14 years. This distrust
was soon removed altogether by a closer acquaintance with facts.
This case is precisely like that refen-ed to in Note 3. I should
certainly not ha\·e been willing to admit that I felt suspicious
of H., even to myself, still less to Imother. Yet here this unjust
and ungenerous suspicion was proclaimed to me by the clairvoyant.
and I canllot altogether deny its existence.
(At thif:! point the medium Rpoke across the room to Mr. Hodgson, calling
him by name, and making some unimportant personal communications. Mr.
Hodgson was sitting at a distance of 20ft. from us, behind n screen. This
leads to the interesting question how far and how easily the mind of the
clairvoyant can be transferred from the sitter to another person. Can the
clairvoyant infonn A of what is passing in the mind of B? This seems to
me the most momentous problem before us. The recognition and direction
of a power such as this nmy lead to a moral revolution ill the life of the
human race.)
Here is your Rebecca!
(Clarke and Hodgson both a!lk " mine" 1 Each having relatives of that
name.)
(To Clarke) : Your Rebecca, your little girl. She runs around and gives
l1er hand to everyone about her.
"Is there another little one with hed"
Yes, there are three of your people together there now.
15. My wife and two children.
"How is Rebecca 1"
Very well.
" Where is she now 1"
She is in the spirit. That is to say, her !lpirit's here, but her body is at a
ciiRtance.
16. A noteworthy instance of the way in which this tenn is used by the
medium. My child was in Germany at the time, and thus lived
572 .A Record of Obsei'Vatw,Ul of
rather in my memory than in my daily view. Hence. althout{h tho
medium felt that she was alive (" Her body iK at a distance '). her
personality was yet spoken of as "in the spirit." Compare Note 8.
You will soon have a surprise. It is a photograph of your boy that is
being made for you. It is unfinished as yet, but will surprise you.
17. An evident failure on the part of the medium to comprehend lIomo
of my idel\ll: I was at that time taking photogmphll which were not
to be developed. and consequently could not be Keen. until my retun}
to England. Hence a photograph appearll in her verllion as a lIurprille
which some other person is preparing for mo.
There are five of you: yourRell, your two children, YOUl'lady in the bndy.
and your lady in the spirit.
18. This is my constant feeling-the "we are 8e\'en" of my sur-
roundings.
What are these tickets that you have in your pocket I There are figures
on them stamped in red, and they are lIigned with nameK U1ulenleath. They
will be of value to you, you will get something out of them.
"No, I have nothing of the kind in my pocket."
19. Knowing that I had left my }locket-book of P"ptll'R elsewhere, I
denied having anything of the kind about me. I had forgotten for
the moment that I had, earlier in the day, taken two chequell to be
cashed, and had thrust them into my itlllide }locket, folded Ill'.
These cheques were endorsed on the back as dellCribed, and were
stamped with large and peculiar red numherll; I particuL,rly
remember glancing at these numberll, and verifying the endorse-
ments. Another instance of underlying memory.
" Where is my wife 1"
She is across country. She has been away.
20. My wife had intended to go to Germany from England, soon after
my sudden departure for the United States. I ,lid not posith'ely
k,Wl0 that she was away from home, but I shollld have asswued it as
well-nigh certain.
There is a young man and an old latly with her.
(There followed an accurate interpretation of my estimate of the
characters of these two persons, who I knew must be together with Illy
wife.). . The young man is coming back again; he is going IItill
more across country.
21. Correct. I knew that my brother·in·law had ttl return frum the
Tyrol to his hOllle on the Baltic.
• (Further reference to my mother describing hel' character An,l
representing her as she lives in my memory.) • That is an old-
fa!lhioned portmit of her, not very good, but better than lIuthing, (" Where 1
'Vhich one 1") It is at home. I mean Ule one with the collarette.
22. A sufficient indication of one of the few portmitll of my mother.
Who is this funny-footed fellow of yours, the one with the club·feet and
the funny shoes 1 Your mother says it ill An injustice to yoII, too bRd-but
it will come out all right.
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena of Trance. 573
23. Correct. My boy was born with club-feet, and wears machine
boots.
Why! you've changed your house recently.
"No."
Yes, your lady has changed her house.
" Well, you may mean that she is awayfrom her house, that is true. Now
describe the house in which we live gene1'811y."
Yea. Wait a minute. I will go into the door at the side. What is that
tall, old-fashioned thing in the back room 1 Ah, it is a big clock.
24. Correct.
"Now go into the kitchen."
Yes. No one here now (10 p.m. in New Hampshire. 3 a.m. in England).
A fat person, a cook has been here. Big man, with a dark moustache, has
also been here a good while during the day, and has left his inftuence here.
" Who is he 1"
He has been put here to watch the place.
" Is he trustworthy and faithful 1"
Yes, he is trustworthy.
25. Interesting error. It was arranged on my leaving England that, in
case the servant should object to being left in the house alone
during the absence of my wife in Germany, a policeman should
be hired to guard the house and to live in it. At the time of the
sitting I had not heard how this had turned out, and was quite
ready to suppose that a man was watching in the house. In
point of fact, however, there was nobody in the house excepting
the servant and a young girl, of which latter, as I knew nothing,
the clairvoyant natu1'811y made no mention. Note the imaginary
details, "big man," "dark moustache," "trustworthy"; and com-
pare these with similar imaginary details in cases of hypnotic
suggestion, #J.fI•• Forel, HlIF'wtismUII, p.45, &C.
You have lost your knife! Your mother tells me that.
26. A sufficiently trivial communication from a lllother to her only child.
" Where is it 1"
Oh, it is gone; you never will see it again.
?:/. This 1088 had vexed me, as the knife had been made to order. I
had lost it shortly before leaving England. The prophecy proved
to be signally wrong, as the knife was restored to me soon after my
return.
"Describe the other room on the ground ftoor now."
Yes. I see a long piano. What is that high thing that comes forward
on top of the piano 1 Ab, I see ; it is the lid.
28. Clock and piano are respectively chief features of the two rooms.
" What colour is the wall paper of this room 1"
Let me see. It is yellowish, with gold pattern and gold spots.
29. Correct.
In short, many things that I knew, even some things that I had forgot.ten,
the clairvoyant could tell me correctly, albeit somewhat confusedly. She
made all the mistakes that I should have made at the time, and her pro-
phecies were quite as erroneous 8S allY that I might have invented myself.
2 J(
Digitized by Google
574 .A Rec01·d oj Observatim18 oj
One sees the contents of one's mind as in a warped and flawy mirror.
Or, to take the case from the other side, the secondary consciousness of t.he
medium seems able to get occasional glimpses at the panorama of one's
memory as through the rents in a veil. No doubt Phinuit gives the fullellt
and best results when left unquestionQ(l, to tell what he can. If pressed to
fill up the brood expanses of the picture remaining between the patches
which he seOB, he is obliged, despite his pretensions to supernatural know-
lodge, to take refuge in awkward eva.'Iions and" shu1Bing,"-in gueSllwork.
often clearly based upon llints unconsciously afforded by t.he sitter,-or,
whell all else fails, ill incoherent and unmeaning talk. Yet, while fully
recognising these repelling featurtls of the manifestation, I am yet cOJlvinced
that there is enough that ill genuine remaining to prove the existence of a
direct communication between mind and mind during the trance state. A
single succesa, excel'cling the limits of coincidence (and it is undeniable t,hat
there are many such). proves the posaibility; the multitude of failures
merely indicate the difficulty and uncertainty.
.T. T. C.
The remaining sittings all belong to the English series, and are
numbered in the ol'der in which they actually took place. The full
list of them will be found in the Appendix. The tirst which we
take is closely connected with the last given. It took place at )!r.
Clarke's house, and it was of course impossible to conceal from Mrs.
Piper the identity of Mrs. Clarke. No theory of chance will suffice
to account for the curious list of definite facts about Mrs. Clarke's
family which were correctly stILted by Phinuit; the possibility of their
acquisition by extemalmeans has already been considered.
52. (Sitting on December 29th, 1889, at 3, College-road, Harrow. Pre-
sent: J. T. Clarke and W. Leaf j afterwards Mrs. Clarke.)
Sitting began at 3.50 p.m. j trance came on at 4.3.
Four envelopes had been provided, marked A, B, C, D. A containQ(1
the statement, .. Charles I. was beheaded in 1649." B contained the linell,
•• 'Veep no more, woful shepherds, weep no more, for Lycidas your sorrow
is not dead." C contained a rough diagram of a six-pointed star. D
contained a reader's slip from,the British Museum, bearing the name of a
book. The contents of A were known to W. L. alone; of Band C to both
W. L. and J. T. C. j of D to no one, the slip having been drawn at random
by Mrs. Clarke from 2;000 similar slips, and enclosed in the envelope
without having been looked at.
Dr. P. began, to Clarke: I know YOIl j you are the fellow that has got
the little girl Rebeeca, that is going to grow up such a fine woman.
*1. Repetition of words used in previous sitting at Chocorua, New
Hampshire, September 20th, 1889.
Where is Hodgson 1
*2. During my former sitting Mr. Hodgson was pres~nt in the room and
shared the conversation with me.-J. T. C.
You are the fellow that has got the hole in the ground with the black
Digitized by Google
Cerlain Phenom,enct of Trance. 575
things in it. ("Coals1") Of course, do you think I am a fool 1 There is
something to come from that hole yet,- because I see light beyond it.
*3. In the former sitting mention had been made of a town lot and
buildings as "interest in the ground." The vagueness of this
reference is here developed, by a question intended to be
misleading, into definite error. See Note 7 of preceding account.-
J. T. C.
Your mother sends her love to you ; she stays with you.
J. T. C. : "What was her middle name 1"
I will ask and find out for you.
(The envelope marked C is now given to her.) "Tell me what is in there."
(She asks for the other one that is with it. B is then handed to her. She
rubs both on her hair.)
*4. The knowledge of the fact that a second envelope existed was
apparently derived from my consciousness, as but one envelope had
been produced.--J. T. C.
Do you know, I have been in these surroulldings before.
*5. See description of this house in former sitting.
. There was a lady passed out of the body here once.
if 6. My mother.
What is the matter with you 1 (To J. T. C.)
J. T. C.: "I am grieved about the lady that passed out of the body."
She is all right; she is with you. You are the fellow that has got a
Dlother-in-law. .. (Correctly describes character as estimated by
J. T. C.) That's a letter, that one. (Shows B.) It makes me feel funny,
that one. It is something written-a letter. You know what I mean.
What's this? (Shows B again.) There's an illness round this one.
" Is it a long letter 1"
No, that's not a long one; it's what you call an illness round that one.
(Various repetitions of the same idea follow.)
*7. The secondary consciousness gradually became more and more
confused by these four sealed envelopes. 'J'he mediunl had
previously picked out the envelope B three times from among the
rest, and afterwards referred to D as "that book that you have in
yourhand."-J. T. C.
(lUrs. Clarke ente~d the room at this point.)
J. T. C. : "Now tell me what. this is." (A given.)
There is French writing in that; somebody French wrote it. He wants
to know the name of the spirit that wrote to him first. It is written by
fIOmebody named Charles, and somebody named Fred has handled it.
if 8. It is possible that the name Charles may have been a reading of the
first name in the written sentence; but it is evidently connected
with my first acquaintance with the medium in the company of Dr.
Charles Richet and Mr. Frederic Myers. M. Richet had asked a
similar question in one of his sittings; soe p. 620.-W. L.
(D is shown.) "What is in that 1"
That's only a note; it does not amount to anything. That's about an
engagement. (Told it is not so, says): It has a lady's inftuence on it-your
2 R 2
Digitized by Google
5i6 .A Record of Observati0'll.8 of
mother's. (Again told this is wrong.) You see this is something new to me;
I am not accustomed to do these things for people.
How'sM.1
*10. A lady who had been present at the close of my sitting in New
Hampahire.-J. T. C. .
" She is very well ; but tell me about these letters."
(Some desultory remarks j then)-
Don't you know about that time I saw you before 1 I told you about the
boy; how is the little fellow that has got the funny feet 1
*11. "Funny feet," expre88ion used in former sitting. See Note 24 of
former account.
He's coming out all right. You are the one that made me describe the
piano.
*12. Note 25 to former sitting.
J. T. C. : "Well, CAn you tell me what there is in the room over this 1'·
I see a funny looking bed (pointing).
" What is on the bed 1"
There is a thick-looking quilt. What do you call it 1 Hens' feathers-
down?
*13. Correct. A German plumesu.
That little fellow is in there.
*14. Wrong.
Then there is a chair just there (pointing) that's got a funny thing on the
back of it j it's got amlS.
*15. Correct.
And right here is a case (pointing). It has got a door to it, and a little
hasp to it. It has your in1luence upon it.
*16. Correct. A writing-case, the covers of which I hnd repaired and
inlaid. Position of objectK ill room correctly indicated by pointing_
-J. T.C.
There is a book there.
J. T. C.: "Tell me the title of the book."
There is more than one book there. (To Mrs. Clarke): How are you,
" sis "1 What's that little long thing right here 1 There's a shelf right.
there (pointing), and little books that belong thero.
ir 17. Correct.
J. T. C. : "Tell me the name of some of the books."
There's a life of L-E-A-C-R. L-E-A-C-E-R.
W. L.: "Spell that name again."
Le L-E-A-T--H-E-N-.•.. Isu't that a funny-looking book.
and letters on the back 1
J. T. C.: "What do the letters-on the back say 1 "
Look, there's a History of Rome. It is a history book. P-A-S-H-
E-R. (She apparently tries to say Persia.) Who is Joe?
J.T. C.: "lamJoe."
There were two Joes in the family. One is the grandfather and one the
lIOn ; father and son.
Digitized by Google
CeTtain Phe'nornena·of TTa'nce.
... 18. My uncle and cousin, but f10t f8tner and son.-J. T. C.
Who is Turner 1 T-U-R-N-E-R.
J. T. C.: "The gI"8l\t painter."
Well, you al'e the man that was painting.
*19. Sile fonner account, Note 14.
577
(Then after some desultory conversation) : What do you call that 1 Letui 1
'Tb8t's French. D. L. Letui ; that is on that hook you have in your hand.
D. L. Letui, Turner. Yes, Turner. (Here the envelopes are taken up
again, pulled about, and finally thrown across the room ; they are named A,
B, C, and D, in each case wrongly. The title of the book did not contain
the n8me Turner.)
How do you spell Deluther-Luther '1 He is connected with you.
J. T. C. : "Well, who is this Luther 1 Was he my uncle 1"
Or your aunt 1 Your uncle, of course.
• 20. Luther was my f8ther's Christian n8me. My question was intended
to mislead.-J. T. C.
(After some more 8imless remarks, Mrs. C. takes the medium's hand.)
Ah, this is the lady I told you about; I know her. She is the one that has
got a funny mother 8nd a nice father, and two good brothers and another one
that is not so good.
*21. Wrong; I have only Ol1e bl'Other.-A. C.
Three brothers-I, 2, 3, 4. One of her brothers is going a long way oft'.
His name is Harold.
*22. Wrong. This name Harold had been repeatedly thrown out during
the session. M8Y possibly 8pply to one of my friends who has a
brother Harold gone a long way oft' (to Australia), and 8nother one
w!to is not so good (a scapegrace, in fact).-A. C.
And she has got a brother named Henry.
*23. Correct.
J. T. C. : "Has she got any sisters 1"
Yes, one.
Mrs. C. : "What is my sister's name 1"
What a question! Who would ask for her own sister's name 1 (Follows
an accurate account of the ch8ractar of Mrs. C.'8 mother.)
Mrs. C. : "Tell me about my sister."
She is all right; I rather like her. She has got a relative named AdR.
• . . ~our sister's name is Susan Mary.
*24. My sister's name is Selma.-A. C.
How is Henry 1 Is it that one that was ill or is it your father 1
*25. My brother Henry had a most severe illness 8 few years ago.-A.C.
Your father haa got the rheumatism.
Mrs. C. : "He had not the dRy before yesterday."
Well, then, he has got it now. (Prophecy wrong.) How is your Uncle
William 1
*26. This remark about William was probably addressed to me; it is a
common name in our family, 8nd always turns up with reference to
me when I 8m presellt.-W. L.
Digitized by Google
578 .A. ReCQ1'd of Obsel'vations of
MrH. C. : "I have no Uncle William."
How is M. (trying to get at the German pronunciation of the name) 1
Somebody belonging to you is called M. (Says Ilame rightly.) She is tho
one that has got the trouble with her ankle, insteall of your father. I was
getting her influence all the time with your father. She is very self-willed.
but she has got a pretty good disposition. She has got sisters; there is E.
and there is one who paints.
*'1!/. Correct. [See Note 29.]
(At this point J. T. C. and W. L. are sent out of the room, and ar&
absent about 25 minutes. The following notes were written down by Mrs_
Clarke on the sallie evening.)
(Of Mrs. C., while the others are going.) She has a headache; I'll cure
it. (Rubbing hand over hend.) . Here is your Gncle C. He is
in the spirit.
*28. Correct.
Who is Wallace 1
Ml'II. C.: "I don't know him."
He is connected with you; he is your coullin.
Mrs. C. "N<>. he is Joe's cousin. Do you wl\nt Joe to come back 1..
No. I want to talk to you about your rncle c. There L'i someone witlll
him-Eo He is your cousin. Well (impressively), he sends his love to YOll_
.. Is he ill the body 1"
No, he is in the spirit.
" How did he die 1"
There was something the matter with hill heart, and with his head. He
says it was 1m accident. He wants me to tell you that it was an accident.
He wl\nts you to tell his sisters. There's M. and E. ; they are lIifiters
of E. And there is their mother. She sufferli here (pointing to abdomen).
Now, how do you think I know tIus?
.. I don't know."
E. told me. His mother has been very unhappy about his death. He
begs you. for God's sake, to tell them that it 11'1\8 an accident-that it was Ius
head; that he WI\/! hurt there (makes motion of stabbing heart) ; that ho
hall inherited it from his father. Hill fnther was off his mind; you know
what I mean--crazy. But the others nre all right, and will be. And he"
wants YOli to tell them that his body ill dead. but that he is living. He aml
his fnther are jUllt trying to take comfort ill each other. They are n little
apart; they are not with the others in the "pirit. And he wauts to semI hi.....
love to Walter, his friend-not this Walter. He has a friend named Wnlter,
hasn't he 1
" I don't remember." [No such friend known,]
*29. A striking account of my uncle'8 family in Genllany. The names.
and facts are all correct. The father was disturbed in his mind for
the last three years of his life. in cOll8llquence of a fall from his
horse. The BOil committed suicide in a fit of melancholia by stabbing
his heart, I\/! deRcribed. The siHter referred to as lame WI\/! bedriddelL
for 10 yenrs. Olle of the siHterli is a painter by profession.-A. C.
Did you know your mother had dreadful headaches 1 That's the reason.
she is so nervous. E. told me that nbout hiH aUllt.
Digitized by Goo~
Certain. Pherwrnerut of Trco1,C.e. 579
* 30. My mother formerly suffered from severe headaches.--A. C.
Here's M.-not the M. who hurt her ankle, but another. She is your
aunt.
iI- Correct•
.. Is she in the body 7"
No, she is in the spirit. Now, how do you think I know that 7
" Did you see her 1"
Yes, she is here, and wants to speak to you.
.. What does she say about her husband 1 "
She says he has changed his life since. She does not like it that he
married again.
" Does she like the one whom he has married 1"
Oh, she loves her dearly. But she does not like him to have married
again so soon. He married her sister. Two brothers married two sisters.·
Her husband has children now. There are two boys. And there are Max
and Richard, or Dick, as they call him; they are with your uncle's children.
* 31. Accurste description of the family of another uncle. His wife died
childlesa, and he soon after married her sister, by whom he has
children. His brother had previously married a third sister.-A.C.
Now, what do you think of this 1 Don't you think I can tell you many
things 1 You just ask about anybody you like and I'll tell you.
* 32. It struck me how desirous this secondary consciousness was that its
communications should be cOllsidered extraordinary. Evidently
suffering under the failure in satisfying the envelope tests, it had
begun by askillg me : "Do you think I am a fool? "-A. C.
Mrs. C. : "Tell me about my childhood."
Shall I tell you how you ran away (chuckling) with that man-that boy, I
mean 'I You were a little devil to do that. It worried your mother almost
to death. .
* 33. When five years old I rambled off with two boys, staying hours
away from home, an event which in my family is jestingly referrcd
to as my running away.-A. C.
When you came back you kept away from your mother.
" Did I feel ashamed 1"
Not exactly; but when you have run away you do keep away from your
mother.
.. Tell me about my schooldays."
Oh, you were a little de\'il at school.
*Wrollg.-J. T. C.
There was a fat teacher.
¥- 34. Not identifiable.
And there was a girl called Florence, with red hair.
" I don't remember her."
No? But you do remember having run away with that boy. There's
Fred-Alfred, that was the name of the boy.
"No."
And who is E.--no, that is not it, E. H. (giving correct names, both
family and Christian)? (W. L. andJ. T. C. enter the room.) Shall I tell
580 .A Record of Observation8 of
Walter what I have told you 1 (" Yes.") 1 told her she has a cousin E.
in the spirit who passed out by accident, not purposely; he P)lt a knife
through his heart. He was rather insane. He got it through his father;
he was insane, too. He has got a sister M. in the body ; she is a little lame.
And his mother is concerned about the lOBS of him because he took his own
life by accident, and he wants to send a mesaage that he did not do it
purposely, but because he could not help it. He says, "For Heaven's sake
tell her so quick." There's nothing the matter with the rest of them; they
will get on all right. Then she has got an aunt M. in the spirit that
has got a husband in the body. He has got some children and sons, and she
has passed out and he has married heTsister. He married her sister, and two
brothers married two sisters. E. and M. are sisters, and both are sisters
of E. This little devil ran away at one time when she was a little girl
-ran 3way with a boy and worried the mother almost to death. Then she
got ashamed of it afterwards. E. does not seem to be with the other
spirits much. He is with his father, and he and his father stay with one
another. . . . Your mother has headaches; that is what caused her to
be nervous. . . . Joe, how is Wallace 1 I mean your cousin Wallace 1
He is kind of unhappy.
*35. Christian name of a cousin now dying ofconsumption.-J. T. C.
How is H. E. (correctly giving both Christian and family name) 1
J. T. C.: "He is all right."
No, he is not all right ; he is kind of tricky.
*36. This same accusation, based upon an unjust suspicion, had been
made in the former sitting with me. See Note 16 to previous
account. I am positive that the medium in her primary conscious-
ness has never heard either of these names.-J. T. C.
He is selfish. You don't think so 1
J. T. C. : "No, I don't think so."
Well, then, you're "left."
J. T. C.: "What were you telling about Alfred 1"
I didn't tell you anything. (Stertorous breathing. Exclamation: .. Joe!"
Gradual awakening.)
Sitting closed at 6.20.
In answer to an inquiry as to any symptoms of fishing while she
was alone with the medium, Mrs. Clarke writes as follows :-
"I think I may safely My that there were only two questions of mine
which could at all have helped the medium in any attempts at fishing.
These were both about what my Aunt M. said concerning her husband.
My inquiry may possibly have insinuated his having done a thing which
might hurt the feelings of any first wife, but, however suggestive of blame,
could scarcely have served as a hint at his marriage with the deceased wife's
sister, even to the mind of one living under English law.
"I may, of course, have helped her unconsciously, but I hardly think 80,
because the questions referred to remained ill my mind as a mistake on my
part. Moreover, I constantly felt during the interview that I had to guard
against talking to her as to a friend of my relatives, which I was tempted to
do, as her remarks about them were as appreciative as if she actually knew
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenornena of Trcmce. 581
them. Some few of the facts she gave me were unknown to anyone out of
Germany, even to my husband. The more important events-my uncle's
and aunt's death and my cousin's suicide, which happened respectively 28,
15, and 12 years ago-were known to only two persons in England besides my
husband. It is absolutely impossible that Mrs. Piper got at the facts through
information derived from these persons.
" On the other hand, it is true that on the first mention of the name the
facts associated with my cousin rushed into my mind with such vehemence
that, if there be any possibility of communication from mind to mind, I
(lertainly helped her in that way. This does not apply to my 'running away,'
of which I had no thought when I asked her about my childhood. This fact
was, nevertheless, brought out without the slightest hesitation, even more
directly than the others, and with a burst of laughter."
4. Mr8. A. (See p. 439.) November 24tl~.
Mrs. A. is anxious that her real name should be concealed. It
has therefore been necessary to call her three sisters, who also sat with
ltfrs. Piper, "Mrs. B.," " Miss Emily C.," and" Miss Gertrude C." The
Christian names which occur have also been changed to names which as
far as possible are as usual as the real ones. The correct names will be
given to students, if desired, in confidence.
Mrs. A. was on a brief visit to Mrs. B. at Cambridge on November
24th, and had come to call at Mr. Myers' house on the morning of that
day. She was introduced to Mrs. Piper and taken upstairs to sit in a
few minutes. It is therefore in the highest degree improbable that
Mrs. Piper could have had any opportunity of learning anything about
her beforehand. She was of course introduced under another name
than her own. The following notes were taken by Mr. Myers.
I see a sister, . . . in the body. She has not been well; has
(lhanged her surroundings.
[The name given was an approach to the right name of one sister, which
was afterwards given correctly. It is, however, not correct to say
that the sister in question has "changed her surroundings."]
I see Jessie Poder (1). [Not recognised.]
You have three sisters and two brothers ill the body; an elderly
gentleman ill the spirit, your father. [Right.]
One of your brothers has a funny arm, the right arm paralysed; very
funny (points to a place a little above the elbow on inside of arm). That is
sore, it is lame. It is on the cord and hurts him, troubles him a good deal.
I think I could help him. It has been coming some time. He can't use hi8
ann, it aches. He is a smart fellow and could do a great deal of good if he
could use his arm. Show me some article belonging to him. The lump
keeps growing. He is a nice fellow and has done a great deal of good. He
will do more if he can use his arm. I can't see the future about that.
[This is a correct description of Mrs. A. 's eldest brother, who suffers
. from writer's cramp, which seriously hinders him ill his profession.
There is a lump on the arm which gives him pain; but it is signifi-
cant that it is in fact below the elbow, not abo\'e it. But Mrs. A. at
the time believed it to be above the elbow, 118 it was described to her.]
Digitized by Google
582 A &corcl O'f Observalions O'f
A spirit JoKe}Jh comes near to you; an uncle on the father's side. [Not
recognised.]
Timothy is the nearest spirit you have got to YOU; ROme call him Tim ;
he is your father. Timothy was your grandfather alBO. Your father tells me
about S.W.-Stay, I can't get that, I must wait. Your mother had trouble
in the stomach; she is in the spirit-world. Your father had trouble in heart.
and head. Myers' father passed away from disease of the heart.
[Except the allusion to "S.W.," which is not recognisable, the above is
all true, if the "trouble in heart and head" be taken to refer to
Mr. Myers' father, as seems to be intended.]
I see Laurie, Lausia. [Not recognised.]
You have a brother Jim, James, in the body. He is 80 funny; it is hard
to get at him. Hc is kind of stubborn, self-willed. A little quiet influence
manages him, but he is wilful if pushed. He comes with the same influence
as your father.
[This is a true description of Mrs. A.'s second brother. Mr. Myers now
asked what the father Timothy was interested in; what kind of
things he did in earth-life, or cared for now.]
He is interested in the Bible-a clergyman. He used to preach. He
has a Bible with hinl, he goes on reading and advancing. He is living with
your mother just the Rame as on earth. He has been in the spirit-world longer
than she has. Your mother is a little nervous. I can't get her to come near.
Your father has a ROlemn pcfu! manner, as he had on earth. He had
trouble with his throat-irritation (points to bronchial tubes). The boys
used to call him Tim at college.
[The above statements are all correct, 80 far as they can be verified.]
Howell, a friend of hiI', hMIlRl'8ed over. [Not known.]
This is the first time your father has spoken to you since he passed out_
You may hear footsteps. You do a great deal of work. Sometimes you get
1\ little blue and depressed. You exercise your body. Do you like that
picture of your father in the hall? (here confused as to wbether oil or
crayon; not photograph). He bas a bigh collar and a garb partly white :
white in front, rolmd neck, like a high collar, anel dark wl\istcoat. He hM
a prominent nose, his eyes very clear and grey, bluisb grey; a good-sized
man. (Here confused talk as to colour of eyes. Dr. P. says he is not good
I\t colours, and shu1Bes about..) Brownish grey, hazel; your eyes are lighter
than his. He has a firm expression round the mouth, a dtltermined ex-
pression.
[The account of the portrait is not very satisfMtory; but it is true that
there is a largtl oil portrait of him in Mrs. A.'s sisters' house ill
ecclesiastical gsrb, ROmething as stated. His eyes were brown.]
WIlo is Yilles-Vyl-Mylde-Wildes; H. Josepb Wildes? A friend of
your fl\ther's, used to be in tbe Rame church. (Explained as parishioner.)
He was shaky in his faith; he had an idea of changing his views, and did not
(Iuite satisfy your father. Now he bclieves. Harriet knows about this ami
will tell you. Sarah is also ill the spirit, his mother, a member of the church
where your father prel\Ched. Henry Smith or Smythe was a lJarishioner •
his sister is Laurie.
[None of the above names or persons were recognised.]
Digitized by Google
Oertain PJtenomena of T7'((nce. 583
I don't like the way you are situated. You have too much to do. You
are unsettled. You are about to make a change. Your mother advises it.
A Heshy lady of dark complexion, a teacher whom you talked to a fortnight
ago, will be of great use to you. [Not recognised.]
You haye a mother in the spirit; hel' name is Alice. She is calling and
snys, "Tell Isabol not to be so ntlrvous, because she is too nervous altogether."
That's for you. " She is injuring herself."
[The mother's name WM rightly given.]
There's n bright little boy in the body, the grandson of Alice. [Right.]
Why is Tim being continually halloed 1 Annie is in the body, one of you.
[This was wrong, but WM apparently an attempt at the name of one of the
sisters.]
Isabel, the daughter of Alice, is nervous. She is here with this lady.
[Dr. P. does not seem here to recognise that the sitter herself i~
"Isabel." The name actually given WM nearly, but not quito
con·ect.]
Alice is tAlking about her daughter Isabel and her eldest grandson. He
is going to make a noble fellow, though at one time they almost despairocl of
hinl. He would haye been bettel' off if he had not had his own way too
much. He is a peculiar boy, very self.willed; he hM had his own way too
lUuch. Physically he is not yery well. I hnve not honrd his llame, he is the
eldest, the crank of the family.
[This is not at all a correct description of the eldest grandson. It is
true that he was at one time so ill as to be the cause of great
anxiety, but the account of his character is quite wide of the
mark.J
Which one is musical? It is the youngest is most musical altogether.
It is your mother who thinks so. It is a girl. Alice's youngest is a girl.
[Con'ect; but there seems to be confusion betw~en the children of
Alice and of Isabel. Dr. P. at this point was rambling and
indistinct.]
The father says, tell Alice in the body not to go where she is intending to
go; something to do with singing.
•
[This may have belln intended to apply to the second sister, but tho
allusion was not recognised.]
You will be able to do better in a short time. Don't be depressed;
there are many dark clouds in the next months, but it will result in gooel.
Your father if! very much respected, and preaches to people as he did in the
material wol'l(l, Is there a girl of his called Eliza-no, Alice 1
[Here Mr. Myers whispered to ?tlrs. A., "You have not a sister of that
name 1" Mrs A. replied, " Yes, Alice Jane" (Mrs. B.). .This nmy
llaye been the means by which the second name Jane, presently
gi"en, was obtained.]
Dr. P. now obtained the name of the youngest sister, here called
Gertrude, by four steps of gradual approximation. It is possible that he
may haye here been somewhat helped by unconscious indication on the part.
of the sitter. " Tell Gertrude to be brave and not get despondent with her
burdens, aUlI I will help her."
Isabel made an unfortunate change; a year or two has elapsed since thOll.
Digitized by Google
.A Record of Observatiml8 of
She hall headaches which come from the stomach; go to her and ask her.
[Wrong.]
Jane, that is Alice Jane, my daughter. I see her playing the piano. Let
Iter continue playing; she willl\CCOmplish her undertaking.
[The last words have no recognised meaning. Mrs. B. was not playing
the piano at the time.]
Take your father's advice and be patient. I left matters solDewhat
unsettled. Your surroundings are not what they should be. Have you
broken up your home 1 One of your sisters has not been well-headaches
oOriginating from the stomach. One studies music very hard ; it makes her
head ache. [True.] Tell Jim to listen to good advice once in a way; it
will be good for him.
Although this sitting contains a considerable number of unrecognised
statements, the proportion of wrong ones is very small, and those
which are right are quite beyond the reach of mere chance. The
most striking are the list of names of the brothers, father, grandfather,
and mother, all given quite right without fishing; and the account of
the brother's suffering with his arm. Note the error in the real place
()f the lump as pointing to thought-transference from the sitter's mind•
.5, Mrs, Verrall, Nocember 25th. Fj'rst sittillg. FIYIm Mr. Myer,,' Nutu.
You look like Fannie. Who is Henry 1 The spirit Henry COlDes to
you; comes very near. And then there is Annie. Have you had a
headache to-day 1 You are a medium, a little. Do you know S-I-M-l\I.
B-I-M-E-S. SIMS 1
[Nothing known about this; Mrs. Verrall had not had a headache.]
How is your sister', There is a weakneSll about her; she is not well-
weak; trouble in chest and bronchial tubes; she coughs at times, takes cold
very easily. [Right.]
Who do you call Kate 1 You have a cousin Kate. [Right.] I don't like
her, she hangs back. You have been reading~tudying. You will
accomplish it. Go on though you get tired. You are wrapped up in that
lIort of thing.
You have a sister in the body. I like her in1luence. Shc must be "ery
()areful or her weakneSll will increase. Who is Wilson 1 He is some one who
has treated her.
Mrs. V.: "Not quite Wilson."
Dr. P. : Williamson?
Mrs. V. : "No."
Dr. P. : -lson-olson-well, it cnds in-lson.
[Right so far. The full name was supplied by Mrs. V.]
Dr. P. : I don't like his treatment; he gives her quinine. Her sybtem
is all full of it; I don't like it.
[Mrs. Vorrall at the time denied that her sister had been treated with
quinine during a severe illnC8ll, pneumonia, two years ago. Her
sister when asked said the same. But it was subsequently
Digitized by Google
Oel-tain Phe'norne1"l-a of Trcmce. 585
ascertained, by reference to the prescription, that she had been
taking quinine for some time without knowing it.]
You and she are alone in a way j she cares much for you, though she does
not always show it.
[Mrs. Verrall has only one sister alive and no brother.]
I like better the tall man whom she had in the first place j his influenc&
is better for her.
[This was understood as referring to a change of medicalattendant.& which
had taken place during the sister's illness, the junior partner having
been called in at first. On the second day the senior partner came
and ordered the quinine, but the second physician was as tall as tlu~
first.]
You have got another sister in the spirit; she comes to me and is
interested. [Right.] I get your mother's and father's influence and another
gentleman, a brother of hers, or his-Kate-who's Kate ?-Your father is in
the natural life and your mother too. [Right.] Who is Maria 1
Mrs. V. : "My mother 1"
Dr. P. : Yes, Maria. I said Marie, Maria.
[Thc mother's name is Maria, but she is commonly called Marie by some
of her relations.]
It is you that have got the William. [Not known, but see below.] Alice
-whom do you call Carrie-Caroline--it is not Alice but Carrie. Carrie is
very near you and loves you.
[Carrie is the name of a deceased cousin, once an intimate friend of Mrs.
Vermll.]
How is that gentleman of yours? He is kind of crsnky. Excuse me,
lie does get too nervous, and then it is hard for you. You with your children
are four of you j so there are four in your own home, your old home-father,
mother, two sisters j now you, your gentleman, two children. [Right.}
There are no brothers of yours, you never had any. [Right.] You have father
and mother in this life, and an uncle in the spirit. [Right.] I see your
father's influence round the wlcle, but he likes your mother best; he sends
his love to her.
[My father's eldest brother, now dead, was particularly fond of my
mother.-Mrs. V.]
There is a child in the body j a little stiffness-a boy-no, a girl. That
leg too. This leg is the worst. The muscles are strained, not lubricated
properly. If you rub them with your hands the knees will be as good 1\8
anyone's. She will be able to move her knees. Rub every night and
monung.
Mrs. V.: "What is the condition called 1"
Dr. P.: A drawing of the muscles; they are too tight. One knee is
worse than the other.
[The left knee was here indicated. It is a fact that Mrs. Verrall's baby,
a girl, suffered from want of power in the lower limbs, and tlmt the
left knee was the worst. But it is not correct to say that there was
straining or want of lubrication of the muscles of the knee, t,bough
the tendons of tbe heels were somewhat contracted.]
You have fewer spirit friendH than almost anYOlle. There is another
child, quite bright, quite smart. It will bo very musical.
Digitized by Google
586 A Record of Observations of
MI"II. Y.: "A boy or a girl?"
Dr. P.: A hoy. [Wrong.]
lleculiarly, but after all it is a girl;
fury.
You have had that child',; hair fixed
a girl sure enough, but she looks like "
[The elder child's hair was at the time badly cut, and like a boy's.]
One of your relativcR has a little difficulty; one is a little deaf; is that
your mother 1 A difficulty in ono ear. Not your father or mother. I can't
tell whether it is a lady or a gentleman that is deaf.
[Here Dr. P. i!! evidently doing a little fishing. Mrs. V. has 1\ relative.
a Rister-in-law, who has had a good deal of difficulty in olle ear.]
Your flister in the Rpirit passed out of the body in a fever. [Wrong.]
You know Arthurton, Atherton, Alverton, Alherton. Then there 11'1\8 a
gentleman friend of your father'!! who passed out with kidney trouble. 'Vho
i!! that got burnt out I Elvert Loui!!; Albert Lewis. Do you know Mr.
Lewis in the body I Are they connected with your father or hushand ?
[Nothing can be made of thiR except that Mrs. Verrall's father once had
a clerk lIamed Albert Louis AdluiInar; he was certllillly alive a few
weekR before the f<ittillg.]
F -R-E-D-E-R-I-C-K, Frederick, that'" your fllther's l1ame :
110, it's not quite that. F -R-E-D ; 110, nor that. It's hetwccl1 the two.
[My father'!! l1allW is Frederic, without the k.-Mrs. V.]
You have John in the natural world, on your father's side; his sist.er's
lion: no, his brothcr'" Ron. [Right.] Then there is William very near your
mother; not hel' brother, no, her uncle. No, I don't know.
[MfR. V. 'II mother haR a cousin \Villiam, a very intimate friend, more like
a hrother than a cousin. Also an uncle William, the father of the
couRin Willialll.]
You are going a long way off from your present Rurroun,lings. I see
father and mother and one Rister together. [Right.] Another sister goes
about in the spirit-world. [Right.] Somctimes you get wretchedly dis-
couraged ; people bother you. 'Vhen things go wrong you get awfully upset.
Your husband "tudiesand teaches; what do you call it-Professor! A kind
of bookman, a literary 1111111. [Right.]
10. Mr.•. Vrrl'llil. Scca)!(l sittillY. NUI'ern/leI' 27th, 1!~8!).
Ah, Carrie has ~ot" me688.ge for you. 'Vho is Mrs. Smith? III your
houRehold. (No.) Well, in your immediate surroundings. I 1lI1\\' her when
I was preRent with YOII. She is a nice girl, " nice young girl, hut not so
trustworthy as some of your other friends.
[This is quite meaningless. Thc ollly lady of the name of Smith in Mrs.
Verrnll's " immediate surroundings" is a MiRs Smith, II neighbour.
to wholll the description does not in the least apply.]
Marie, Maria (French pronunciation), how's she 1 Your mother I mean.
Wilson-now, who'R Wilson 1 (The doctor 1) No, not the doctor. Keyon.
who is Keyon I Who is the tall man who rides with your husband? Not
rides, writes. Your husband lectures, talks a great deal. He is a nice nll\n,
I like him. Who writes with him 1
[All this is unintelligible. For" Keyon," see pp. fiBS-\).]
Carrie was sick in the chest when she passed away-commmption. She
Digitized by Goo~
Certain Phcnorne1Ut of.T'ra,nce. 58'1
says she is happy, BO is her mother. You did not know her mother. Well,
Carrie and her mother were not congenial in the body, but they understand
one another now. Carrie had a little sister who passed out as an infant.
[The only friend of the name of Carrie who is dead, the wife of a cousin,
died of inflammation of the lungs. Her mother died at her birth,
and her step-mother was by her believed to be her own mother, and
M a child she used to reproach herself for not loving her M a child
ought to love its mother. There was an infant sister, the child of
the step-mother, which died at two months old. Mrs. Ven~\lI
writes: "This I have never known" (till inquiry WM made on this
occasion), "at lCMt that is my impression. The husband of Carrie
did not know it, but found the event recorded in the Family Bihle.
I knew Carrie very well, and it is, of course, possible that she may
have mentioned the baby sister to me, but I had so little knowledge of
the fact that I thought the medium's statement mistaken, and
neither my mother, who was very intimate with Carrie, nor my
sister knew of the 'infant sister.' "]
Brngnn-who's that 1 No, B-R-I-G -H-T-O-N. (Mrs. V.:
"The name of a town 1") No, it is not that. Lucy in the body is a friend
of yours. She is not well-toothache.
[The only friend of Mrs. V. who is named Lucy had not toothache, nor
anything the matter with her at this time. Mrs. Verrall's old home
is at Brighton.]
Ada D . . . hM lots of trouble, a bad influence is round her. Her
mother is telling me about her-lots of sickness, trouble in head. A relath'e
is ill, BOre imide, deadly sick with digestive trouble. It is very t,roubleBOme,
she is much tied (sic), nervous, hates to see people. It is her gentleman who
is ill. He is advanced, not very young i he hM been troubled a long time.
The docto1'8 Me perplexed, she is very worried i her gentleman is sick, oh, so
sick! liver, heart, and stomach. They sent him away, and he came back
worse. It is mother and father that tell me, in the spirit, her mother and
father, no, his father. He is not treated properly.
[This lady, whose Christian and surname were correctly given in full, IlI\d
already been mentioned to Mrs. B. (App., No.6, p. 621.) The
description of her husband's illness is not good.]
How is that eldest young one that has got its hair cropped off? And the
baby 1 Rub its legs.
[See Mrs. V.'s first sitting.]
Eliza, your Eliza i is she well? And Nellie cOllnected with Eliza 1
[" I have a cook of this name i her sister who lately left me is called
Ellen by me, but Nellie by her friends."-Mrs. Verrall.]
Your sister in the spirit speaks. What is her name 1 What did I call
you 1 Mrs. Reed, R-E-A-D-E. Miss Emerson is a friend of your
gentleman.
[Mrs. Reade is not identified. Dr. Verrall when quite a boy knew a
Miss Emberson.]
Mary, a sister Mary. Louise, Louiss, no, Lizzie, your husband's sister. '
'There is another sister Anna. Mirah, Mara, Marion is the youngest sister.
Another, not so near, is Anna-no, I told yO\1 her. Why do I give you four
llI\mes 1 There are only two sisters.
Digitized by Google
588 A Rec.ord of ObservatiO'1ls of
Mrs. V. : "You are speaking of sisters and sisters-in-law."
Two sisters, like you, and two sisters-in-law.
[Dr.. Verrall hM two sisters named Annette (eldest) and Marion
(youngest). He hM two sisters-in-law called Mary Elizabeth.
generally known M Lizzie, and Anna. Thus, allowinlJ for the
confusion of Anna and Annette, the statement is correct.J
Your husband's aunt is called Catherine, Caroline. Oh, how he
lectures-not you, other people. He's positive. So's your eldest daughter;
she's like him, oh, like him. The other sister is Alice, Allie; I can't get itquite_
Who's How 1 no, not How; what do you call it 1 (Mrs. V. : "Hugh 1")
That's it. Alice, Allie, no, can't get it. (Mrs. V. : "Annette.")
[Dr. Verrall's youngest brother is called Hugh. He is confident that he
never had an aunt Catherine or Caroline.]
Ellums, Vellums, what's that 1 That's you. Mrs. Vcnnals, V-E-R-
N-I-L-S, Verils, Y-E-R-I-L.
Mrs. V. : "What is my Christian name 1"
Mary, Maria. No, M--A-R-. It's like Mary Verrall.
[Mrs. Verrall's Christian name is Margaret, and she is called May. She
notes that the R of Mary WM hardly sounded.] .
Mrs. V.: ,. Tell me of my mother's relations? "
Who was the teacher? There was a grandfather lame, very lame~
rheumatism; the father's father, lame, crutches. You know Henry, he
sends his love. There are two Henrys, one the father's side, one on the
mother's. The two Henrys came to another gentleman by mistake. One
belongs to the lame grandfather, his son; the other to the mother; not her
son nor brother--father, perhaps, or grandfather. Your grandfather had &
sister Susan. The other Henry-there is an old-fashioned picture with &
collar turned down, hair old-fMhioned way-I\ painting done by one of the
family, not y"ll.
[" Grl\n<1father lame; this is true of my father's father. But he never
hall rheumatism ; his lameness WM due to an accident. ' Henry' ;
I had an uncle Henry whom I nevcr knew, a son of the lame grand-
father. There is a portrait of him by his mother which she valued
very lIluch. It shows him as a young man, a grown-up looking boy.
The other Henry was an uncle of my mother's. I have written to
ask if my grandfather had a sister Susan." Subsequently Mrs.
Verrall writes :-" I hear that my grandfather had a sister Susan.
She was born in 1791, and aner her marriage went out to Canad&
and lived near Hamilton on Lake Ontario. But a son remained in
England. Members of my grandfl\ther's family have kept up com-
munication with some of my relations, though not with our branch.
notably with the uncle who married a Mrs. Keeley. The uncle
Henry whose portrait WRS described to me went Ollt to Canada to
join the Susan branch. It is certainly very astonishing that Dr. P.
should know 1\ fact of which I certainly never knew. My grandfl\ther
had entirely broken with all his family except 1\ sister Mary, and
never mentioned them to me. This iruorn18tion is derived from
papers in my !p,.;&ndmother's handwriting. My father knew nothing
of this Susan. ']
Keyon, what's her nllme? Your grandmother's sister, no, grnndmother
was WilRon, no, \Villiams.
Digitized by Google
Certain PhenO'fltena of Trance.
[Williams was the maiden name of Mrs. V.'s great grandmother.]
Stanford, Sanford, a relative of yours. How is Fanny 1
[Mrs. V. knows nothing of these names.]
Kelon, Keley, that's it. What relation is she?
Mrs. V. : "My uncle married a Mrs. Keeley."
589
[Mrs. Keeley was the name of a widow who was the second wife of Mrs.
V.'s uncle.]
Oh, what a mixture-double marriages! Your aunt married your uncle;
I mean, she was your aunt after she married him. Mrs. Keeley was the
second wife and had a first husband. George, that's the brother of the
uncle's first wife.
[" George was the name of the brother of my uncle's first wife. I timl
that he is still alive, but is now called Jasper, his other name. I
have lately heard a great deal about Jasper, but had no idea he was
the 'George' of whom I used to hear from my cousin, John
Merrifield, when we were both children."]
I like the teacher. (" Who 1") Music teacher; your aunt, father's
sister. She is a lady, she is living.
[" My father's sister taught music certainly, possibly painting too."]
John: what is he 1 A tall dark man, had a lot of land. No-John,
cousin on father's side.
[" I have a cousin John, but the description is not correct."]
Aunt Jane, Jennie. No, not an aunt; what do you call her aunt for 1
[ee A friend of mine is called Aunt Jane by my child."]
The special interest of these sittings lies in the facts told to Mrs.
Verrall, of which she was certainly ignorant at the time. Many of
them may be explained as mere unconscious recollections of childhood,
but it is difficult to feel that this adequately accounts for the mention
of Susan as the grandfather's sister. The correct statement about the
quinine (pp. 584-5) is curious, but would have been more striking if
the remedy had been less common.
The following sitting is printed nearly verbatim from shorthand
notes, in order to give a fair idea of the verbiage which formed the
greater part of most of the sittings:-
51. Sitting em December 28th, 1889, 33, Manchester-strut. Pre3eu,t: M1"8.
Herbert Leaf, and Walter Leaf ,·eporling. Mrs. H. Leaf 1oosillt-rodl!ced
as "Miss Tlwmpson."
I see you. How are you, you lady 1 I say, Captain! Captain, come
here.
[" Captain" is the name by which Dr. Phinuit speaks of Professor
Lodge.]
W. L. :" The captain is not here. "
Oh, then, that's you, Walter 1 'Vhere are we now 1 Where be I 1
W. L.: "In London."
How do you do, Sis -1 Are you pretty well '1 You are not sick 1 No 1
2 s
Digitized by Google
590 A Reeo/xl ~f Obsel'vatwns of
That's very good. I have got a great deal to tell you, lady. You haye made
one great mistake in your life. That was a bad one. If you bad not made
that mistake you would have been better oft". That's a young gentleman
that came into your life, and you didn't care much about him. [The refer-
ence of this is quite clear and unmistakeable.]
Do you know who Frank is 1 That's a lady, her name is Frances,
F-R-A-N-C-E--S. How do you spell that 1
[My sister Emily's third name is Frallces.-R. M. L.]
Well, William sends his love to you (W. L.); that's your father; he is in
the spirit. [Wrong; but see App., NOB. 31 and 55.]
(Here I am asked to leave the room ; I beg to stay, and am allowed to do
so.-W. L.)
Well, there is nothing like pleasing those people there in the body, if you
can. I want to tell this lady about 11er sisters.
'!'here is a doctor round this lady. How is he? The name is William, I
get the influence. That makes two Williams, one round Walter and one
round you.
[This "William" could be easily identified, but he is not a doctor.]
I get your grsndfather's influence, lIe was lame and had trouMe through
here, in the leg. [Wrong.] That's on your mother's side. Don't you think
you are pretty I I do. You are a "ery pretty girl. You have got a gentle-
man, though, in the body. [True.] What do you think of that 1 He isa ,-ery
nice gentleman, he is not a crank. He is kind of nervous, but he is very
nice. Now the grsndfather's influence, the olle that is lame; he is connected
with your mother.
R. M. L. : "That is not right."
There is one of your grsndfathers that is lame.
R. M. L. : "I never heard of it."
He has got something the matter with the right leg. You ask about it ;
it is through his leg here.
R. M. L. : "Is it the one that had something the matter with bis ear I "
It is the 8.'lme one that had the trouble in his car. [Wrong.]
R. M. L: "Where did he live 1"
I don't know. I can't tell the names of places. I can't tell names of
towns, sometimes I can tell names of countries. How about that letter you
got a little while ago? Are you going to see that friend who wrote? She
will come into your surroundings suddenly; I know that is a fact.
[The allusion to a letter is incorrect.]
He is nervous, Walter is : isn't he 1 How is Gertrude 1 Is not she a nice
girl 1
[An allusion to Mi88 Gertrude C.]
How is your sister 1 She has got a cough. She is better, I think ; she
has got a cold. She has got trouble in tll~ throat, and in the head a little.
Particularly through here in the throat; she will get quite well again. But
she is such a limb, she is full of Old Harry. She has a very lively disposition.
She has got a great deal in her. (What is her name 1) Do you know her'
she has got a cold. She has had something the lnatter with her throat. She
has got something the matter with her head.
Digitized by Google
Certain PIWllo-men(t of Tra'l'tCe. 591
(" This is a quite incorrect account both of the character and ill-health
of my sister."]
Who is Mary 1 That is this lady's aunt. She has passed out of the body.
[This is correct. She is my mother's sister.]
R. M. L. : "When did she leave this world 1"
A little while ago. She is in the spirit.
[She died in '83.]
R. M. L. : "\Vas she goodl"
What a funny lluestion! What do you mean by good 1 She is a very
nice lady. She is a lady that would come back in the spirit; at the same
time she is very sad. At the same time she is in the spirit, she lives and
sees you. . . . I get your mother's influence now.
R. M. L. : "She is in the spirit, is she not 1"
No. [Right.] I want to get your mother's influence nearer to me.
There is a lady in your family that married twice. She had two husbands•
.[True of a matenll\l aunt.] 1 will tell you about her. I get this spirit tlll\t
sends love to your mother. She is in the body, your mother. But Mary is
in the spirit; she sends love to your mother.
R. M. L. : .. What about the one that married two husbands 1"
There are two influences, one is in the spirit, one in the body. [True if
Teference is to husbands.] One of her husbands was a kind of crank. Then
one of them passed out and she married again. That makes two. The first
one passed out by an accident.
[He is believed to have been murdered during the Indian Mutiny, with
the other European males of the station, in a church at Shallje-
hanpore. The exact manller of his death is not known. See the
allusions below to a "large building" and "passing out all mixed up
with somebody else, he and a lot of other gentlemen."]
R. M. L. : "Is the second one alive now 1"
He had some trouble through his heart, right through there. He passed
out very suddenly. He passed out by accident. At the same time it
nffected his heart. [This evidently refers to the ji"st husband.]
R. M. L. : "Where did he pass out 1 In what sort of place 1"
There was a building at the corner of a street, a quite large building
running buck a little way.
Then there is Emily. That was her influence I was telling you of.
[.0\ sister. See above.]
R. M. L. : "How is Emily? "
Not very well, I will tell you that much. I mean she was not very well ;
I know there was trouble through here (indicates abdomen) like peritonitis.
She su1l'ered very mucll indeed.
lShe has been very ill with intenml malady, though not peritonitis.]
R. M. L.: "Can you tell me about my brothers 1"
I get you a little mixed up with Walter. Does William belong to you or
to him 1
W. L.: "There is one William that belongs to me. You told us."
Well, you have got a William on the father's side. That's the father's
brother; and he (W. L.) has got the father. He is a little older thm his
282
Digitized by Google
592 .A Record of Observat'iom of
(W. L.'s) father. He has got a William in the spirit, that is his father, at
least, he lII\ys father to me ; that is Iill. I can hear from him. There's two-
Walters in his family; then there is William, who is father in some way to
him. Then with you I get George, G-E-O-R-G-E. I like him; he
is in the body, and there is one in the spirit. He has got a brother in the
spirit, he wants to send his love to him.
[Mrs. H. L. hM an IIncle William, her father's brother, and a cousin
George who has lost a brother, the" Harry " who is named shortly
afterwards. It is also correct that there are two Walters in my
family, as I hAve an uncle of that name. Note the correction of the
statement that Willism is my father, which had been made to me at
my previous sitting. (See App., No. 30.) Mrs. Piper had in the
intervalleamt by personal introduction that my father is not in the
spirit, and may rrobably have found Ollt that his name is not.
William.-W. L.
R. M. L. : "What is the name of the brother in the IIpirit 1..
She ha.'! got an uncle William, he is the father's brother. There is a
George connected with you; at the same time there is a father's brother
whose name is 'Villiam, that is on the father's side. Then on the mother's
side, Mary is your mother's sister, that is in the spirit. That makes two.
George is in the body. Then there ~ Alice tlu\t is connected with you; that.
is a cousin. No, not Allee; AUce, Elsie, Elice. Is that yours, Walter, or
this lady's 1 Charlotte; tlmt is eonnected with you. With you, Sis. Mary
BaYS, give my love to Charlotte. Is not she a friend of yours 1 (No.) That
name is in the body. TJmt is connected with Walter, then 1 (No.) I used
to like Walter, but I don't like him any more. He is too nervous. He gets
kind of cross, because I don't tell everybody ill your family at once.
[Charlotte is not known. For Alice, see below.]
Now t1mt is what I want to tell you about. There are six of you, and
tb."t is all. How do you suppose I know 1 Then there is one, two, three.
four, two sisterK and two hrothers, that Illakes four, and then there is one ill
the spirit. Then there is one of them -- thel·tJ iK l'ncle George--
confound him, I can't get George right! He is in the body: he is connectetl
with you. He is your George. Then I get Harry, that's the brother. A
brother of his, George's. It is not your brother at all, but George's brother.
That would make it brother-in·law.
[The number of brothers amI sisters is exactly right. The sister "in the
IIpirit" is the Agnes who pll\yed such a prominent part in
Professur Rendall's sitting, of which we had not then heard. She
was called " Alice" at first to him, so it is II088ible that "Alice"
above ml\y be meant for the nallie. But it has a significant bear-
ing on the Spiritualist explanation that there is no recognition here
of the identity. Indeed, the next paragraph scems to imply that.
the" one in the spirit" is a brother, which is wrong. There is no
1Illele George.]
Is t1mt your cousin George 1 Then there is cousin Harry; they are both
pretty good, but he has got the most quiet uisposition. Harry is here, I get
his influence very strong. Then I get your brother and Harry together.
They want to send their love to you aud to George in the body. One of
them weut away from home.
Digitized by Google
Certain Pltenomenct of Trance. 593
R. M. L. : "Which was it went away from home-my brother or my
cousin 1"
Your brother; he went away and was gone quite a long time, and was in
a different country from your own.
[The name" Harry II is right, but the statement about his disposition is
ambiguous here. It is made clear further on. One of my brothers
is in the Indian Civil Service, and has been a long time away.-
R. M. L.] .
Who the devil is Arthur -- A-R-T-H-U-R 1 He is talking to
me. He is ahnighty peculiar. He thinks a good deal and writes a good
deal, and bothers his head with other matters a good deal. He always
wants to know what is going on. He is in the material form. Arthur comes
llearer to you than the rest. What do you make of that 1
[This is not in the least a correct description of my cousin Arthur, an
artist, nor is there any recognition of his identity with one of the
half-brothers spoken of to Professor Rendall.]
How is your gentleman '/ He is kind of funny. Do you know, I like
him, and he has got an opinion of his own. At the same time he is gOo<l
and thinks a good deal of you. But sometimes he doesn't show it. I am
not going into all your secrets till I get you alone.
She has had two gentlemen. You didn't fancy the first one. (A few
lines are omitted here contsining some perfectly true remarks about the" first
gentleman.")
Do you know Benson 1 (No.) Who is that cousin that married Benson 1
The name is something like that.
[No such name recognised.]
Do you know Gertrude C. (full name given) 1 And Emily 1 She is not
flO pretty, but she is a nice girl. Wlll\t a nice little girl you are. But you
do fidget sometimes b."\dly. Do you know the spirit that passed out of the
body in the water 1 He was drowned. He wants to send his love to the
girls, and if he sees them again he wants to tell them something; Emily and
those girls.
W. L. : "What is his name 1 "
He has got a brother H., and wants to ~end him his love. His name
is Charley. He is calling it, auyway. He is connected with him, anyway.
[This refers to Miss Emily C.'s second sitting, App. No. 34. H.'s
brother, who was buried at sea, was not called Charley, but left a
son of that name.]
You have got a Charles who is connected with you; William, Cousin
George, Cousin Harry. [Right.] Do you think Harry is a crank 1
R. M. L.: "I have not seen him for a long time.II
Do you think George is 1 He is more quiet, more gentlemanly, but
Harry has got more spunk in him, more devilry. Harry is the one that was
lIot understood; I tell you that because he told me so. There is one with
me, and George that is here in the body. He sends his love to his brother
(~eorge.
[This is a perfectly correct account of the difference in charncter of the
two brothers.]
There is Arthur connected with you, A-R-T-H--U-R ; he is in the
Digitized by Google
594 A Record of Observations of
body; he is peculiar 1\8 well 88 the rest. He seems to be connected with you
in I~ different line from those others. He i I not 1\ brother, but he is con-
ncctell with you. I think tlll\t is your gentleman's brother, or your gentle-
IllI\Il. How the devil do you call him?
R. M. L.: "He is 1\ first cousin."
'VeIl, he is not 1\ brother of those gentlemen; he comes in 1\ different
line. He does not belong to them, but this Harry that speaks to me speaks
about Arthur.
[I have lin uncle and a first cousin Arthur,. but description does not apply
to either.-R. M. L.]
• There is a little child round you. The little body of a child. It belonge<l
to your aunt that is in the spirit, that pl\88ed out years and years ago; you
will have to II.8k your mother about it. You will find that it is a little chiltl
that never lived in the body.
R. M. L. : "Whose child WII.8 that 1"'
The child doeK not know whoso child Khe WI\.'1. Don't you see, the chiltl
was too young. I can't get it to talk to me. I Hee this little one; it beloll~
either to I\n aunt or a cousin. Your mother will know about it.
[This is not known to be correct of the child of an "unt or cousin. :Mm_
Leaf had herself lost" bILby, born de"d.]
Who is Annie 1 It is Annie th"t is IIBking this. And I\n uncle of kUlie's.
That is connected with you; that is Willi"1I1, your uncle William.
[Annie is siKter of H"rry and George, and niece of my f"ther'~
youngest brother William.]
Then there is I\nother uncle thl\t iK connected with you. I do like him ;
he is a nice fellow. He is one I "m tRlking "bout. He has passed out of the
body. Do you know wh~ J- O-S-E-P-H is1 Josephine 1 Josie?
R. M. L. : "No."
[The name of Josephine, Josie, turned lip in other sittings and wa..' nnt
recognised.]
"rait II minute; H"rry used t{) know" girl of the llI\me of J osephinc, it
WIIB wh"t they ClLlled her. It is connected with George now in the body; he
knows who Khe is. I don't think the lruly here knows it. I "m going to tell
you allllbout her relatives. There is the one who }>I\S8ed out in the building.
He is the uncle here now. That is EmilY'H.
R. M. L. : "Uncle?"
Emily's uncle. Thl\t iK the one th"t passod out of the body suddenly.
And your aunt had two husbILmls. He pnssod out like that; all mixed til"
with somebody else, he and" lot of other gentlemen. His brllin is a little
bit upset; he wantH to know you and wllntH to recognise you.
R. M. L. : "Did he ever see me in the body 1"
He never SlIW you in the body. You were II little thing. This is a long:
time "go. At the same time he thinks that he knows you.
[lIe WIIB killed some ye"l"!! before Ml"!!. Le"f WI\8 bom. From this p(.int
it will be seen that the sitting became mmbling, "nd almost every
stlLtement made was wrong or llloanillglellR.]
How is E-D 1 Edw"rd? No; F-R--E-D. That's it; how's Fretl !
Fred Smith 1 He is in the body; Fred Smith. He is connected with Georg(',
Your "unt is constantly with him. Is not she funny 1 She is the queerest
Digitized by Goo~
Ce1·tain Phenmnena of Tmnce. 595
Jack among them all. Oh Lord! You don't like her very well. You don't
care about her very much. She is very self-opinionated and thinks too
darned much about herself, and she is no better than anybody else.
R. M. L.: "Harry is the one I want to hear about."
He is the one you don't like, and he is rnther big, he thinks a good deal
of himself.
R. M. L.: "How did he pass out of the body 1"
Well, it was your uncle pl\S8ed out by accidellt. He had trouble
here through the chest; that's fever, fever. He has put his hand on hill
head; that is where. That is Harry. He passed out with it. He did not
know anybody before he passed out. His head was dizzy. Then he had
trouble through the chest.
[He died of cholern.]
R. M. L: "Where did he pass out 1"
That ill some way from you, not in England. [Right; it was in India.]
He had bleeding. something bled. He remembers that, before he passed out
of the hody. He had trouble through here, through the chetlt, through the
lungs. That was his trouble, and he PI\S8ed out. You know he went to
school at some time; this troubled him there. Then he had an attack
through IIere, through his heart; at last it infected his heart, and then
he pl\S8ed out with it.
R. M. L. : "Did they bury him BOon, or was it a long time 1"
They sont the body away; he is living. That was a long while ago. Ho
trouhle" me a littlo ; but don't you like him 1 Too bad ; he was funny;
given to a roving disposition.
R. M. L. : "Did he lea\"e a wife 1"
In the body '/
R. M. L. : "Yos."
What was that trouble ~ What do you call it 1
R. M. L. : "In the chetlt '/ "
YeK. Do you know, he lost some blood before he paBBed out; he }Hul
trouble with his head, that was all covered with spots 1
'V. L. : "Not small-pox 1"
No, he had not. He had trouble through his chest and raitled some blood
hefore he pastled out. And then he had an attack with his heart. He
rememherH this trouble.
At the same time there is this lady that George knows about in the body.
Tell him that Harry is not dead but alive ; but he does not seem well to
realise that he CBn talk to you. Meantime I will talk to him and get him
to come here and talk to you. He can tell you more next time.
Walter, is not she a nice little girl? You know the gentleman; is not ho
a kind fellow 1 He knows a great deal. He does his best to do right; and
whatever he docs he docs conscientiously. He is inclined to be nervous aJ1(l
set; but don't you mind if he is a little bit set. I don't think Harry ever
knew him; he passed out before you got hitched.
[Currect; Harry died August, 1887, and I was married the followillg
September.-R. M. L.]
Who do you call Dick? Somebody calls him Dick; Richard his nallle iK,
they call him Dick. That is a second cousin.
Digitized by Goo~
596 A Record of Observation8 of
R. M. L.: .. My gentleman's second cousin 1"
Yes. He is in the body. That is connected with your gentleman. He
has got a moustache. Your gentleman is fine. He is pretty good-looking,
but I don't like that light coat he wears. He used to wear it, but he has left it
oft" now. The dark one he wears looks better, with that fuzzy thing,
velveteen. Where did he get that ring 1 That is Walter that has got the
ring. What is that piano 1 P-I-A-N-O 1 I got that near your mother.
How is Harry's wife, do you know 1 Harry is a kind of crank.
[Harry never married. All this part is nonsense.]
R. M. L.: .. Can you tell me my gentleman's name 1"
Harry went to another country and passed out away, so he can't tell his
name. He will know all about it. But who is it they call Fred Smith 1
R. M. L. : ..Can you tell me who it is that I call 'Mr. Man' 1"
Mr. Man 1 That is a very familiar thing with me, your Mr. Man. It is
not Harry 1nor George 1nor your uncle 1 Do you call your gentleman Mr.
Man 1 Then the gentleman's father 1 I .give it up. Whom do you call
Mr. Man 1
R. M. L.: .. It is only a dog, my collie, that I call Mr. Man."
Ah, he is Mr. Man sure enough. Now I will tell you what I will do with
you. I will tell you all about them next time. I will inquire about your
spirit friends. You have got a long life before you and a very pleasant one;
but I don't see any children; no children.
R. M. L.: .. Can you tell me about something I lost three years ago 1..
Something shiny, you mean 1 It was a ring in gold, something round.
Something you wore here. (Indicates neck, then wrist.) Round the wrist
she wore it. It was a pin. It was a funny looking thing. You lost that in
the evening. I will trace that for you, and tell you next time. If there
is anything else you would like me to tell you, I will; but I could not tell
you who you call Mr. Man. (To W. L. : She must come and see me again.)
You take things patiently, but you get worried and fidgety when that man
of yours gets tired. He is set, but he means well. I like him. He has got
lIome sense and lIome brsin, that fellow. . . . I want to tell about the
six of you, five besides yourself. I will tell you about your brscelet, where
you lost it.
[A gold bracelet is what I asked about; I lost it one evening.]
You had a new book to put pictures in, that card-looking thing that runs
along with string. It is a book-looking thing, a big book. I call see it quite
well. Who gave it to her 1 . . . Do you know, your uncle had some
trouble; he passed out with trouble. He had a bad accident. What a good
girl you are. Do you think I am a crank 1
Trsnce passed oft" at 12.15.
56. l'1ittillfl of J«IlIla,ry 1st, 1890, at 6, 1'111&u-place. PreMnf., W. A. Pye
and W. L.
Mr. Pye had been previously introduced as Mr. Wilson, but his real
Ilame had accidentally been mentioned before Mrs. Piper. It is, however,
extremely improbable that she heard it.
After the usual preliminary conversation,
Now your mother's family, brothers and sisters, and all together, if we
take the children, there are five.
Digitized by Google
Certa'in Phenomena oj T1YI11ce.
W. A. P. : "Alive 1"
No, five in all; one, two, three, four, five.
W. A. P. : "My own brothers and sisters 1"
There are more than five, as you are now.
W. ~. P. : "There are six."
597
Where tho dickens is the sixth gone now 1 There's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, not
~ounting himself. There are four brothers and two sisters. Alive in the
natural life there are four boys besides yourself. You are right; there is
four boys and two girls. The little one, the youngest one, I don't see at all.
There are five, no six, alive not including yourself. Then two in the spirit,
6, 7, 8. There are six in the body and you make the seventll. Then there
are 1, 2, 3, 4, there are four in all. Besides that there are three others in
the body, and then there is one in the body that I can't see at all well, the
youngest one. There are one, two, throe in the spirit, and six in the body.
(Note A.)
Five of them I can tell you about. One of them is named Henry, he is
called Harry. Then there is Marie, M-A-R-I-A. Then there is
another named Will, W-I-L-L-I-A-M. There is two.
W. A. P. : "Will is myself, he is not my brother."
Then there is another one with a curious name, spells with a J. That
is in the spirit. There is one Ed; E-D-W-A-R-D.
W. A. P. : "No; that is not quite right."
Ed, Edmund, 01' Edwin. That is it; they call him Ed.
W. A. P. : "The name was Edmund." .
Don't you call it Ed. 1 Well, I do. Edmund. That is not a very easy
name to speak. Then there is Will, W-I--L-L, and another, and Henry
and Ed. Then there's one named John, and that is an uncle, and there i&
one named Maria, and that is an aunt. (Note B.)
There's two names quite alike; there's one who is deaf (touching the
left ear) ; he has some trouble through here, on that side. Don't you know,
what you call things in the head 1 Gathering, rising in the head. Troubles
just here.
'V. A. P... III the left ear 1"
That must be an uncle.
'V. A. P. : .. There is one name you have not mentioned; can you tell me
about the brother with the curious name 1"
You don't lllean Edmund 1
\V. A. P. : "No."
Well, I will find it before I get through. There is this little girl in the
spirit with me, a little bit of a child, and three boys. The next one has got
short hair (I). By little girl I mean one between 14 and 15. Then thero
is two boys. One of your brothers is away-two of them in fact are
nway. One is a long distance away. You will hear from that brother pretty
soon. He is doing first-rate. He has had a very discouraging time, but it
is better now. Then there is one of you called Walter; that is connected
with you. (Note C.)
Who is Alick 1 Alex 1
W. A. P. : "I don't know."
He is not connected with you. Ask Walter. There are two of them.
Digitized by Google
598 A Reco'rd of Ob8el't'ations of
Your looy has got two sisters, one of them with her, living, and one out.
There is one with her; I don't like her. I like your lady very much.
She is kind of nervous, but she does a great deal, she is patient. Her sister
is quite peculiar; she is kind of fussy; she likes to have her own way.
(Note D.)
There is one, two--Where are all your children 1
W. A. P.: "You said just now there is an Alick ; can you tell me abou!;
him 1"
I will get the influence stronger. Don't you call one of your sisters
Allie-1 (This was very indistinct IUld I could not tell whether Allie or Annie
was said at first, the second mention was .. Annie."-W. A. P.)
W. A. P. : .. Not quite."
Annie. That is your own sister, and that's the lady's sister, IUld her
father's na.me is Henry. (No.) Is it her brother 1 (No.) Her father I
(No.) Well, it is connected with her. You ask hel' when you get home who
Alick is. You say you don't know Alick. Well. he will come to you SOOD.
Now I 1\111 going to try and get your brothers and sisters nearer. Which of
them was it that hurt his leg 1
'V. A. P. : .. I don't know."
It is here. Which 11'1\11 it had a fall? He 11'1\11 on the ice and got hurt.
It is through here. (Through the wrist.) You ask. One of them is hurt.
through there. One has trouble with his stomach, indigestion, dyspellSiA.
Then I get this trouble through here.
W. A. P. : .. Which is it has trouble with his stomach 1"
Han'Y has got trouble with his wrist, and Ed with his stomach. (Note E.)
Walter has something to do with books. He has books and papers all the
time. He is in the flesh where he has to do with books ; he has to look
them over. One of them has glasses on his nose and another one llRs got
trouble in his stomach. Then there is one with--Who is Rich,
R-I-C--H? They call him Dick. Tell Walter that from me. One of
them has not been wen ; very sick ; she is getting better.
W. A. P. : "Which of the sisters is that '/"
It is the elder.
\". A. P. : "Call you get the brothel' with the curious na.me 1"
No.
\V. A. P. : "You have not told me anything about my parents."
She hl\ll hoo cold and some trouble through the chest ; she has not been
well at all. She will get out an right. Then there was a little child camo
into your family not long ago.
You lllade a change for the hetter about two years ago. (No.) Well
perhaps it 11'1\11 longer ago ; it was in connection with your work, in your
business life. You ha,"e changed your home surroundings. (Note F.)
You were with an elderly lady at one time. \Vas it your lady's mother .~
She was in the surroundings in the body sOllie years ago. Now she is with
me. Wasn't she in the sUlToundings of this old lady 1 She was one passet\
out with cancer. That is one I want to ten you about. That comes "ery
close. She knows I am speaking to you and wants me to tell you. She had
cancer in one part of the body. (Here some reference was made to Mr. P.·s
wife ; the notes are imperfect.)
Digitized by Google
Ce?·tain Pltenorne'YIa of Trance. 599
,V. A. P. : "Can you tell me any more about her aunt 1 The one that
IJB88ed out with cancer 1"
That is another sister; it is older than that one. What you call the short
one. She ill the elder. Oh, that is not your mother; not your own mother.
(Note G.)
(Here W. L., who has been taking notes from outside, enters the room.
Dr. P. 8I\ys-)
I have been telling him about his five brothers and sisters. He has got
six; I can't tell him about the other one. I see the brother that is away;
then there ill Bert. (" Bert" appears to be a reminiscenoo of my brother
Herbert, his name is Rpoken directly aftar without any connection.-W. L.)
Bert belongs to him. There are 5, 5, 5. Five different brothers and sisters ;
and three in the spirit. I keep getting Bert's influence. Their names are
Willy, W-I-L-L, Edward, and Harry. That's three. Then there is a.
sister Amm. Herbert! Then there is one named Charles, Charley. You
(lon't know him. That is one of them. There is one in a buil<ling with
books. Tlmt's not you. because you are Will. Tlmt is the one I call Ell.
(Note H.)
(Here the medium complained of being" mixed" ; kept on calling for
Walter, Herbert, and Rosie; apologised for being stupid, and 8I\id it was
not usual. Mrs. H. Leaf came into the room. The only connected state-
ments were-)
Rosie, do YOIl know Leicester? No, you don't. Do you know Loolie?
(" Yes."-See Mrs. H. Leaf's second sitting.) She's all right, isn't she?
Will, I want to talk to you again about the friend that passed out with con-
sumption, and the lady that passed out with cancer, and all your brothers.
I told YOII about your sister who is ill, very ill, ill with something in the
throat. You do talk to people everlastingly. You have got a good nmny
friends, a lot of them. Who is tJmt that plays the piano, Will 1
W. A. P.: "Well, there are a good nmny."
Rosie pL\ys, she plays nicely. You have got a lady round you that playsr
too.
After this Dr. P. became incoherent, and kept calling out, "'Valter, help-
me, help me ; I can't tum round." The trance passed off very slowly amI
with unuH\U\1 l4ymptoms. The medium, on coming to, appeared to be very
Ilrostmte and lliHtressed.
REMARK>! BY W. A. PYE OS THE SITrL"W OF JANUARY 1ST, 1890.
(A) The number of my mother's family-my own brothers and sisters,
was at Ltst correctly given. The very little verbal help given by me iI;
mentioned in the notes. My mother's family cousistod of seven sons 1'11(1
three daughters, of whom two sons and a daughter are dead. My father Im.'i
" second family of a son and two daughters who, with their mother, are alive.
'''hen the llUJllber "five" was first mentioned I felt at the moment 1\
little puzzled, nut knowing whether both dead and alive were meant, or only
the latter. From that tinle I mentally separated them into three groupR, my
living brothel"!l amI sistel"R, those who are dend, n.nd my half sisters alUi
broth"'l".
(8) Names now being mentioned, I will give for comparison those of lily
IJarents and their children.
Digitized by Google
GOO A Record of Ob.'Jel'tmtions of
Father-Kellow John. Mother-Mary.
Their children--Daughte1'8 :-
Mary Chesney, called Minnie_live.
Edith May-dead.
Alice Sybil, sometimes called Aggy- alive.
Sons :-
Edmund, sometimes called Numbs-dead.
Kellow Charles-dead.
Randall Howell-alive.
William Arthur (myself), usually" Will."
Walter.
Harry.
Charles, generally Charlie (see Note H).
My father's second family:-
Catharine.
Winifred, called Winnie.
John Hayward.
It will be seen that my own name was the only one gh-en with absolute
ilX8ctne88 at this time, my brother Harry having been 80 baptised. I did
not at first connect the name I heard as Marie with lily sister Mary, partly
because she is 80 generally called Minnie that her real name seldom occurs
to me, but still more, I think, in consequence of the word being immediately
nfterwards spelt M-A-R-I-A, which caused me at once to connect it
with an aunt Maria, with whom I have had a good deal to do.
My eldest brother is as frequently called "Numbs" as "Edmund"
amongst us, but never to my knowledge "Ed " or any such abbreviation.
The mention of a brother with a curious name made me at once think of
my brother Kellow, but neither now nor later on did I get any closer indica-
tion of him.
By this time the imprel!l!ion was strung on my mind thllt the medium
wa3 able in some way to correct her impreSliions ur suggestiuns by meana of
my conscious thuught. Thus I thought definitely of a number, my six li\-IDg
hrothe1'8 and siste1'8, or the four brothers, or the three of my father's second
family, and these numbe1'8 seemed shortly to be given. 011 the spelling of
the word Maria, given as Il sister, I thought of my aunt Maria, and a little
later on she WaH 80 described. There were many other instances during the
sitting.
C. The only names alike in our family are those of my father and brother
Kellow, and mother and eldest sister. It is of course usual to find children
llamed after their parents, especially when there are so many of them.
I cannot trace this deafneSli or complaint of the ear to allY brother or
flister. My eldest sister's husband is de:,f in the left ear to such a degree
that in walking or speaking with him it is necessary to take care to be on
the other side. This peculiarity would, I believe, at once occur to me were I
to think of him.
The little girl referred to I cannot trace. I have since remembered that
my eldest sister many years ago lost an infant daughter, but this did not
occur to me at the time. None connected with me have died at the age of
14 or 15 that I can recall. My sister Edith died when 21 yeal'8 old.
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenomena of Trance. 601
At that date (January 1st) two brothers were away as mentioned.
Walter in Scotland, amI the youngest, Charlie, was correctly described M
being along distance away, as he has been for some years in China j othcr·
wise the description of him does not specially apply.
I do not remember the mention of Walter's or any name here, but tho.
shorthand notes are probably right. He is not specially connected with mo
now, but is next to me in age, and for some time we lived together, and have
always becn great companions.
D. This mention of Alick, Alec, or Alex is rather peculiar. Mr. I.e."f
thinks that it was a reference to a previous sitting, and the "Walter" I was.
instructed to ask might apply to him. (Both the father and brother of Ml'R.
H. Leaf were called" Aleck."-W. L.) At first I did not remember anyone
of the name except slight acquaintances, but after a few minutes recollected
one, now dead, who was closely connected with my wife. In the next section it.
will be seen that, with this in mind, I asked for further particulars and wa.~
BOOn after referred to her for them. In ~ case, also, there were two of the
name, father and son.
Or, again. the reference might be taken as applying to an "Alec" of
whom my wife and I had heard a few days previously as being engaged to be
married to another friend of hers, and more especially of her brothers and
sisters who Ih'e in Stirling, where my brother Walter was at the time. In
this case the "Walter" to be asked might be taken to mean him; and he
has since told me, 011 my reading the notes over to him, that he at once took
the reference to apply to this engagement, of which he had naturally heard a.
great deal.
My wifo has three sisters, not two, and all living j one, married to my
brother Walter, lives in London, but some distance from us j the other
two are living with their parents in Scotland. The liking to have their own
way may be taken as strictly correct of my sisters·in·law,-as of other
ladies.
E. I lllwe seven children and regret that I here interrupted the medium
to put the question about "Alick," to which I have referred in the last
section.
I was expecting the names "Anna" or "Annie," the former being tllRt.
of my wife'li sillter (afterwards given as a sister, see Note H) and the latter
a sister of a very dear friend of ours who died of canccr about two yeal'll
ago, and who might perhaps be taken as referred to as the elder sister, "what
you call the short one," later on. As stated in the notes, I did not
clearly hear whether the name first said Wl\.'! "Allie" or "Annie," but it.
seems to have been the former. My sister, "Alicc" (as mentioned before), is
sometimes called" Aggy," never " Allie," so far 1\8 I amaWI\l'Cj but "Allie"
and "Annie" are, of course, very similar to "Alice" and "Anna," who
would have heen correctly described if 80 given.
My wife has no relation of the name of Henry.
None of Illy brothers, 80 far as I know, have been seriously hurt in the leg
or wrist, or have had a fall 011 the ice to be remembered. DYllpepsia lIli~ht
ho taken 811 applying to two or three, and Edmund, the one mentioned, diutl
of a kindred compmil1t.
I ought, perhaps, to mention that, on inquiry, there is an indistinct
Digitized by Google
002 A Record of Observati(nU1 of
llistory of lIlJury to Harry'll wrist; but he does 110t himse1i recollect auy
particulars.
F. Here, again, I did not notice the mention of my brothel' Walter's name,
but I immediately recognised the description as applying to him. Hi."
cODllulting-room has bookshelves round two sides of it, and he habitually sits
at a table covered with pl\pers, the quantity of which llll!! IItruck me.
Recently 1\ book on Surgery, which he ill publishing, and the fact of lun'ing to
consult some public libraries with reference to some surgical lectures, 1Ulve
heen discu88ed between us and connected with him in my mind.
Both Harry and I wear glasses when reading.
I cannot think of any connection called Richard or Dick, and uuderstood
the "Walter" here to refer to Mr. Leaf. (The name .. Dick" was urgL>d
upon my brother and me in our joint sitting, hut not recoguised.-W. L.)
About a week previously we had heard from my eldest sister tl1l\t she
had been ailing, and had been to Torquay for change. She did not refer to
her indisposition as serious, and mentioned that she was lJluch better; hut
the news was the subject of conversation between my wife and lllyse1i, 8.<; we
)lI\d not heard of her being unwell.
My mother is dead, as 1I1ready mentioned. If this were intended to a.pply
to my step-mother or mother-in-law, I\.'i might, perhaps, be inferred froUl the
remark made a little later-{&Cti()/~ G, "Oh, that is not your lllother, not
your own mother ")-the description would he partly correct 1\8 hoth ha\'e
recently suffered from severe colds, though not, I believe, more than usllAlly
affecting the chest or throat. It occurred to,me at the time as applyiug tn
my step-mother. (Judging from the context and Phinuit's frequent habit
of ignoring questions, it seems to me to refer to the sistel·. In any case it is
a matter of no evidentisl importlmce.-W. L.)
My youngest child is under two years old, but the stat-emellt here n1l\,1e
would have been equally true at any time within the last 13 yoors.
I Illoved to my present house about five years ago, and nearly two yeal'll
previous to that date did make some rat11er important changes in my business.
G. I have never resided with any elderly lady, as I undcrKtood this first
l'emark to imply; but the whole of this section is very interesting to me, for
reasons which, to explain, I must state at some length.
Within the last two years, or a little more, we have lost by some form of
nmlignant growth (I have since the sitting heard a doubt as to whether in
one case it was ever defined as cancer) two to whom Illy wife and I were
much attached; one the friend referred ,to in Note E, who died, aged
37, and the other an aunt of my wife's, who was in her 60th year.
I WI\8 sitting with the latter a few months before her death and we were
talking of our religious beliefs, our descriptioDII of which di1I'ered. I WAS
saying that in matters where I was not as definitely com'inced as of the facts
that I was sitting where I WI\8, or that two and two made fOllr, I preferred to
say only that I did not know, and that this referred for me to the question
of a life after death. Her exact reply I forget, but I then, or very soon
nfterwards, said, in reference to some allusion by ller of her death being
probably not far off, and of her differing from me, "Well, if so, and if you can
send me any message, let me know." I am not sure of the exact woms, but
I think that these are correct.
Digitized by Google
Cerhtin Phenomena of Tt·(tnce. 603
I had no sooner spoken than the thought occulTed to me that I hMl said
something which I should very likely forget, but that it was not improbable
that the fact of my having made the request would bring about its apparent
fulfilment through some unconscious cerebration, and I remember regret-
ting the words. To the best of my recollection I had not, up to the
time that the word cancer was first used, thought of this lady at all during
the sitting, although of the other one, whom I have mentioned, I certsinly
had, and \vas hoping for some mention of her.
My wife's aunt lived with her mother, a very old lady of nearly 90,
from whom we had heurd that morning; and there was in the letter 1\
mention of our 1088.
H. From this point the notes do not appear to me to call for much
remark. The mention of Anna and Charlie (see Sectimll! E aml C) is to be
noticed, and there is a rather curious difference between my idea of what
was said ill the phrase, "The friend that pBIIBed out with consumption," &c.,
and Mr. Leaf's notes, which I am satisfied are eOlTect. The word which I
was confident I had heard was "sister" and not "friend," and my sister
Edith did die of consumption. We were very deeply attached to each other
and I had been looking for a mention of her name.
I have no sister who can be called ill. The remarks about myself are
II:lrhaps cOlTect, and that my wife plays the piano is certsinly true.
If I may make a few general remarks on my impressions of the sitting as
a whole, I should say that I put aside as utterly out of the question !lny idea
of collusion,.or conscious deception by the medium of herself or any other
person. It seems to me to be equally inconceivable that the COlTectness of
the statements can be explained by coincidence only; but if, in a state of
IIllspended volition, sensory powers can be raised to the point of being able
to read some of the minor thoughts of another person, I think that all the
incidents of tlris sitting are easily accounted for. I have already alluded to
the strong impreSBion I gathered that ideas of nnmber, or names, or such like,
that I fonllulated during the time, were in some way conveyed to the medium
and stated later by her ; although some of the most striking references made
were not, so far as I could judge, in my conscious thought at all.
I am, of course, quite alive to the fact that it would be absurd to generalise
from a single instance like this, and I understand that other sittings have left
very different impressions. I feel, therefore, that there may p088ibly be 1\
better explanation than the one which suggests itself, of the communication of
some stratum or strata of thought (so to speak), to a perception out of the
power of all but a few, which is only active when:combined with an abnormal
state of the brain. W. A. P.
We now proceed to the notes taken of some thoroughly unsatis-
factory sittings, in order to give 0. fair ideo. of the methods by which
guessing was carried on in co.ses where there seems to haye been a.
complete absence of any supernormal means of information.
19. ProfeBl/Of' A. Macalister, F.R.S. December 211d, 1889. Nota b!l the
:litte,..
I want to tell you about your mother. It is a long time since you saw
her. She is well and happy. She has passed out, she is in the spirit.
Digitized by Google
6040 A ReC(Yrd of Observations of
Tbere WIL'I a bard time in your life a few years ago, a difficulty in getting
on as you would like regarding home life and pecuniary circu1ll8tances.
[As I got my first professorship at the age of 22, this is not accurate.]
You had an uncle who left home and went to anotber part of the world,
and never wrote till a little while ago. That was in the body. He went to
another part of tbe world-followed the water-connected on your father's
side.
[I never bad an uncle who left Great Britain. Had five uncles on my
father's side; none of them followed the sea.]
You have four uncles.
[I have had seven uncles; none uow living.]
I get your mother'lI influence. There was a sister of hers who passed out
of the body before her. There is also a brother in the spirit and three in
the body.
[My mother had no lIister, only a half-sister whom she never saw. She
had only one brother who died in 1849.]
One called Eliza is your sister, I get her ethereally. Also Mary, and then
another. There are two Marys connected with you, one in the body, one in
the spirit. AlIlO Eliza. Then there is Ellen-not quite that, nearly HO.
Ellan, Ellen-is it that or Helen 1 I get tbe name both ways. (Asked.
" Is she in the body ur the spirit 1") Two names, one in the body, Ellen
in the body, Helen in the spirit. There is Mary Ellen. Then there is
Helen. Tbree uf them-one is tbe mother, tbe other is the sister.
[I bad a sil!ter Lizzie, never called Elimbetb. Sbe died wben I was an
infant. I ne\"er had a relation named Ellen. My mother's nam~
Wal! MI\rgaret. I have a sister Helen alive, the only one of my
family uf that JULIne.]
There are Helen and Mary, one is a motber and the other a lIister. A
sillter Helen aDlI a mother Mary, and this comes in connection with you BIld
a sister Mary. Helen is in the material world j another sister Mary in the
spirit, amI your mother. Then I get Eliza in the body. That makes four.
There ill sumething the matter with you here-in IIOmeone connected with
you. (Here she felt the knob on my knee, a perfectly natural ihougb an
unusually large une.) That's the father's influence I get; he has something
the matter with his knee. (Asked," Is he in the body or the spirit 1 is it;
his left knee or his right knee 1") That one (points to sitter's left knee). Can
you find anyone connected with yuu in the physical world who hal! something
the matter with hill knee? ("No.") Let me know if it is wrong. (" Yes, we
will.")
I get a lady connected with you on your muthor'lI side in tlle body who is
sick. (Points to lower part of breastbone. Asked, .. IR she sick at present 1")
She suffers from it a little; she hal! been much worse. I should say she was
an aunt.
[My mother's family are all dead but one, who is perfectly well.]
Her name is Lucy. (" No, I ha\"o no relation of that name.") Through
the stomach and through the heart. ("I never had a relation wit.b tha.t
name.") You never had any brothe1'll or sisters, did you 1 (" Yes, I had.")
Here Professor Macalister Wal! sent out of the room for two minutes,
Digitized by Google
Gel·tain Phenomena of Tra'tlce. 605
and in his absence was said to Mr. Myers to have three brothers. On his
return :-
There are six of you altogether, four in the body, two in the spirit.
Four J>esides yourself in the body, two brothers and yourself, two sisters, and
one in the spirit, six altogether. One, Helen, has passed out. Mary has
passed out. There is one Mary in the body. There are five of you in the
body and one in the spirit. There is an aunt Mary in the body. Your
sister Mary has been in the spirit some time.
[There were four sisters, three of whom are dead. Helen only lives.
Two brothers, one of whom is dead. Myaunt Mary died in 1853.]
Had you an uncle of the name of AI1 (" No.") Then there's Elizabeth.
That's one. Six of you, take you all together. ("Right.") Two brothers
and yourself, that makes three, no more. (" Right.")
Which one do you call Henry 1 (" He is no relation.") His name is
Stafford. A friend of one of your brothers, perhaps 1 (" 1 don't know.")
[I never lmd any relation Henry, and only once knew a person named
Stafford, as a student 20 years ago. 1 have only spoken to him once
to my knowledge. 1 know nothing about him, aud neither of my
brothers knew hinl.]
Then there is a George, a brother. He has a pru·ticular friend called
Henry, a school-fellow. (" Is George older or younger than 11") 1 don't
know.
[My son is the first George in the family j he is named after a friend, no
relation.]
You have a sister that has had some trouble in the stomach. Not so
troublesome as it has been. (She is in the body.)
[Here 1 let Mrs. Piper see my inky finger.]
Do you write 1 (,. Yes.") 1 see paper before you. (" Can you tell me the
subject of the writing 1") You have been writing an article, like a lecture:
then you deliver it. I can't tell the time when you wrote it. (" What was
the subject 1") It looks like the medical world j the laws of habit and the
way to live and that sort of thing: literary work, the laws of science. I see
lectures. Then there's a book. You want to write together. You ought to
[I have not written a lecture for three or four years.]
Professor l\Iacalister adds in a letter to Mr. Myers:-
" I am quite satisfied that Mrs. Piper is one of the many persons who
show that protean and obscure state that for want of a better term we call
hystero-epilepRY. Like most others who show induced phenomena of that
kind she is easily led and quite wide awake enough all through to profit by
Kuggestions. 1 let her see a blotch of ink on my finger, and she said that I
was a writer. I had just before felt her pulse, so she said I wrote on medical
subjects. 1 have when I bend my knee a very strongly marked ridge on the
bone, which becomes unusually prominent. (I used to have in my old walking
clays unusually powerful muscles in my legs.) She felt this and then made
the guess of there heing Komething wrong with my knee, flhieldillg bel'f;clf
when 1 said this was wrong by saying it was my father's. In shurt, except
the guess about my sister Helen, who is alive, there was not 1\ singl"
guess which Wa.'l nearly right. Helen is not an uncommon Scotch lUlme.
:! T
Digitized by Google
606 A. ReC01'd of Ub.'!en'lItions of
nml she hl\s been in Cambridge. Mrs. Piper is not anresthetic during tho
tID-called trance, and if you ask my private opinion it i!l that the whole thing
i~ an imposture and a poor one. I have often seen a much better fit got
up to order; and my sister Helen, who sometimes amuses herself and other
p;mple hy chiromancy according to the simple mechanical rules of D'Argen-
tigny, makes often very much luckier gueS11C8 than dill your pythoness.
I was very much interested in seeing how nearly !lhe was trapped int~
forgetting to mufHe and diRguise her voice when I }lulled at her eyelid."
An equally unsa.tisfactory sitting, lending to an equally justifiable
incredulity on the part of the sitter, is that of Mr. Thomas Barkworth_
As he has given the main points fully in hi" remarb, it seems needless
to set out the original notes at full length, and we therefore confine
ourselves to his report.
21. }.[r. T. BarkwQrth. Ducm.beI'3,·d.
Mr. Bal'kwol"th gives the following report:-
"In commencing the s&mce I held the medium's hands, which were icy
cold and did not !leem t~) gather warmth. Pult~e ,'ery feeble, often (Iuite
imperceptible, and IlOmewhat rapid. The medium Reellled to find my
influence uncongenilll; sho eomplained more than once that I had done
something to her, that her heall was bad, that she felt 'lueer, had never felt
so before, &c. She continually groaned as if in suffering. After long wait-
ing Mr. Myers took my place with much better results. She went through
a kind of struggle or crisi!l, confined to tho upper part of the body, and
immediatoly olllorgod in the charactol' of 'Dr. Phinuit,' with a mannish
"oice, a more marked Amoricnn or Gonllan-American accent than she usually
has, and confliderable freodom of language. We then entered into a convor-
sation, of which Mr. Myel'll took notes, but my impre88ion is very strong that
no notes t."ken in longhand could be sufficient. The cnnvcl'K."ltion was very
interjectional, Bml intol'spel'setl with queries Bntl cjaculations to which it was
difficult to avoid giving compromising allSwel'll. Thull,' The name begins
with F, doesn't it now?' 'Yes.' 'Didu't I tell you sol' Having got
so far, the question was practically narrowC(i to Francis or It'rederick, and I
asked her which it was. After repeating the names two or three times back-
wards and forward!! she ultimately decided on Frederick, which was correct.
About the age at which Fredorick left the worM there was a regular fencing
match, of which I think it highly probablo I got the worst. 'Wall he an
old man, a young man, 01' a child l' I Bsked. At a comparatively early
stage of the inquiry I got it that lIe was not au old mBn. but beyond this I
could not get. She kept on going aU round the que!!tion in a way which
would have dri"en a cro88-examining barrister frantic, but the only definite
fltatement I got was that Frederick had a vory bad memory; which, as
Frederick was only three weeks old when he died, did not seem very
npproprinte. I tried to stick to the form of question, 'A young man or a
child 1' But it is impossible in the game of question and allswer which was
carritld on to be sure that I did not give some indicat.ion of the answer. At
1:mgth she decided that he was only 'That high,' i.e., ahout 2ft. And hore I
would relnark that my light hand was holding her left hand all the time.
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena, of Trance. 607
N uthing would be easier on the Cumberland and Bishop principle than for a
t\uught-reader to detect by the unconscious pressure of the hand when he
WI\'<, as children say, 'hot' or 'cold.' It is noticeable that whenever a
cluestion which admitted of no yerhlll strategy was put, such 1\.'1, 'Wbat is
Illy nllme l' or '\Vhere is my wife I' Mrs. Piper at once confessed she
~,,)uld not tell. On the other hand, when it came to the names of my family,
which happens to he a large one, her task was obviously much easier. J olm,
'Villiam, Henry, and Thomas are not very uncommon names, and it is not
surprising that she should have hit upon them correctly. It is possible to
have many brothers, hut only one father; and accordingly, while she
1;ucceeded in fitting the former with one or other of the above nllmes, she
<Iuite failed with the latter, to whom she attributed my own name, and with
cflual incorrectness some of my own peculiarities, as though relying on a
family likeness. III the CIIse of another brother whom I asked for she said
llis name was Ed, which would, of course, do equally well for Edward,
Edmund, Edgar, or Edwin. Still I do not wish to minimise the fact that
within these limits Rhe waR right, or that she ultimately fixed upon Edmund,
which was right t{)(). .
"In describing placeR she was e,·en less successful. She profeRsed to
describe my house. Here, again, the description partook of the same
character. •"'hen you go in there if! a room to the right' is, of course, true
(If at least half the houses in existence. But when she came to describe the
rOOlll she hecame so invulved that I could not follow her. ' Here on the
bft,' 'round this side,' 'opposite,' &c., followed each other in bewildering
succession, and I think anyone with powerful prepossessions could hlW6
easily read his knowledge int,) her statement.~. It happens, hOlVe,·er, that
my house has one peculiar feature no one would he likely to gueRR, viz., two
1-;'l'lI\re halls one behind the other. When asked accordingly what was the
apartment straight in front beyond the entry, she made attempts t{) describe
a sitting-room furnished, and failed entirely t{) say what it was t.hat ran all
along one side-in fact, the Htaircase. She was correct in only one point, viz.,
n 'cllse in a recess' ; there being in fact an old packing case under the Ktairs,
hut whether this was the kind of CIIse and recess she meant the reader must
(lccide for himself. The only other point I remember was that !lhe told me
(lne of my internal organs was out of order, in which I take the liberty of
differing from her; whereas she failed to indicate an accidental injury to the
foot. which had existed for some time.
" Once Rhe used the expreRSion 'what the devil,; and it certainly seemed
to me that there was a momentary hesitation in bringing it out, such as
lvould he more natural to a person of gentle manners, which Mrs. Piper in
her normal "tate cerffiinly has, than to the boisterous and rough-spoken
Dr. Phinuit.
"In describing my house I at one point sought to lead her to another
Jlllrt than the one she was engaged on; when she replied, 'Wait a bit; I am
not out of the first room yet,' or, 'Wait till I get out of the front room'-
words whieh clearly indicated that her' familiar' was present in spirit in my
house, near London, while he wa!! claiming to speak through her lips at
Cambridge. As I never heard it claimed for the 'spirits' that they could be
ill two places at once, the incident appears fatal to the Spiritualistic hypothesis
2 T 2
Digitized by Goo~
608 A Reccm.l of Ubservat·ious of
in her case, though, of course, it would not exclude clairvoyance, suppo.'iing
her deRCription of the premises had been correct, which, however, it was not_
•• The impreBRion left on my mind after this one s~nce, puttingaside what
I have heard of the experiences of others, and subject to correction on
further trials, is that :Mrs. Piper's powers are of the ordinary thought'-reading
kind, dependent upon her hold of the visitor's hand: and on this supposition
my only wonder is that she was not more successful."
The next case which we give is one of a doubtful charact~r, as it
is possibly explicable, with some straining, on the hypothesis of lucky
guessing. It is well l>eported, so the reader can judge whether the
hypothetical account of the supposed method used by Dr. Phinuit is or
is not correct.
7. Mi.-ls Alit'e Jolillson. Not'ember 26th, 1889, 11 a.m.
(From Miss Johnson's memory and :Mr. Myers' notes taken at the time.)
I know four of your family-and one besides.
A. J. : .. Is that all1 Can't you see any more 1" (This in all8wer to her
question as to whether she was right. I may have said, .. There were more
than four.")
No, it's not all, but those are all I can see at present. What I say is true.
There al'e those, and there may be others that I shall see soon.
There are four sisters, including yourself, and four brothers.
[True.]
I know one siflter-Eliza (first called her Elise). I saw her a little
while ago, but she did not see me. I can see her now.
[My si!!ter, Fanny Eliza, is always called Fanny, and never uses even the
initial of her !!econd name in signing her Dame, unless it is
necessary.]
Two brother!! are with you-nearer than the others.
A. J. : "Do you mean that 1 care for them more 1"
No, but they are neal'er always-ethereslly present.
[These two as identified by future remarks about them arc nearer to rue
in age than the other two, but probably this is not what is meant.]
The eldest one looks far 011'.
[He was in London at the time.]
One brother is not well-has had miserable health a long time-most of
Jlis life-no prospect of his getting better. (Various details were given
here. In the middle of this description, 1 at first said, "Oh," dubiously,
thinking of my youngest brother to whom the description would not apply-
gradually realising which one she meant, 1 said .. Yes" several times as she
went on.)
[1 thought this at the time a fairly I\ccurate description of my seconll
brother's hel\lth, i.e., according to my knowledge of it. Our family
doctor, to whom 1 showed thifl part, says, .. The definit.e parts of
the report seem to me erroneous both by exces.~ and defect, aud tbe
terms used nre hopelessly colloquial, alld therefore vague amI
meaningless."]
All of you are inclined to be a little bit positive, you have your own
i<l;)RS, aud people can't knock them out of you. 1 think that is a good
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomena oj Tl'ctllt'e. GO!)
point-it is better than being trivial and fickle. But sometimeR you don't
get on with the world at large on account of this. (feeling my
lland and fingers). What's that writing you are doing 1
A. J.: "I'm not writing anything just now. Do you mean something
that I have written lately 1"
Yes.
A. J. : "I do write a gOOll deal."
Y68, I know you do. I like the way you write. That's interesting to
me. You exprcss yourself well. You note things. Ed-Ed-Ed.
A. J. : "What is Ed. 1 I don't think I knoW' anyone with a name like
that."
E-D-R-A ; E-D-A ; I-D-A.
A. J. : "Oh, Ida-yes." (Some discussion as to how to pronounce the
name.)
Ida comes very close to you-has a strong influence. I have seen the
8ame with another lady.
[I know no one of the name of Ida at all intimately.]
I get also Lu, Lulie-Louie. That's what you call him, isn't it 1 In your
family. You spell it Lewis-he is very closely connected with you.
A. J. : "Do you mean one of my brothers or sisters '"
No, but very closely connected.
A. J.: "I know someone of that name-not a ncar relation."
[A Mr. LQ1Ii8 Dyer married my first couRin. The name is spelt Louis, but
his wife likes to pronounce the s. Other people generally don't. I
have only known him very recently and rather slightly.]
(At thil! point Mr. Myers went away.)
Now I will tell you more about your family. You have a brother John.
A.J.: "No."
[Cou1<1 she by any chance llave heard my eldest sister'li nickname of
" Johnnie" 1]
Well, then, James 1
A. J. : "No. None of my brothers has a Christian name like that."
(This was partly to see if she woulll take a hint as to the surname.)
Jo, or Joseph. I know it begins with J. J-E-O-R, J-E-O-R-
H-E, GE-ORGE." (Several efforts to which I gradually assented.) I
like him as well as any of them.
[My eldest brother's name is George.]
He is getting on as well as any-{)rbctter. [Not incorrect.] He i'J
very nice. He gets on with people. (She identified him with the eldest
brother before mentioned.)
There is one of you--Alice. [My name.] I don't like her much. (She
did not identify this person with me.) She is very positive-very-what do
you call it 1 (Waving her hand in a contemptuous and expressive way, and
Il'ling a very scornful tone to imitate thc person referred to.)
A. J. : .. Stand-offish 1"
Yes-that's just the word-very determined.
A. J. : "Perhaps she may improve Rometime '"
Yell (dubiously), when sIte has had more experience, seen more of life.
Digitized by Google
610 A Record of (jbsel't'ation I oj
There is another, Eliza-I like her llluch hetter-llhe is musical, more sedata
than Alice-has more Rense-lllore in ber, as mUllical people often have, but
"he is rather flighty. [Eliza (Fanny) is very musical.]
Your brother-the one who has bad benlth-(feeling nly knee)_
What ill this t
A. J. : "That is my knee."
Oh yes, I know, hut it is here-sometbing is hurting him (feeling all over
my left leg, down to the foot nnd finl\lly lvcntiug the pain in the grel\t toe).
He has a bad place here that hurts him when he walks-luIS hAll it for 1!()1lI~
time-it bleeds IIOmctimeli.
A. J. : "I didn't know that, but perhaps he did not tell me."
Yes-anyhow it's true-you l\.'1k him.
A. J. : .. Which foot did you lilly it's on1"
Mrs. Piper (after much calculation, as she WIUI facing me KO that our right.
and left haud'! were re\'ersed-felt my l;ght leg all over, coming down to tIll-
foot allli finally decided on the right great toe): "There-that's the place.,.
[This brother was a guod deal troubled uy blisters while walking in York-
shire laHt Augm;t. He does not rememher un what part of his feet
they were. I knew at the time, heing with him, tlmt he hAll blistcno
then; but had quite forgotten it afterwanis. He hAll not any at tim
time of my s~l\nce. My youngest brother, howe\'er, who is also in
had health, has one just now at the point mentioned cOITespondiult
to the description, and this I had nenlr heard of till after the seallce. j
MrR. Piper theu began to talk about me, and I IUIked her if she knew
what lily empluyment W8II, or what subject I had stlllliIXl. She said, .. It i...
some kind of art-but learnt or got largely out of uookll. It is a sort of 1'1'11-
feSHion, sucb l\.o;J doctoring is--like a doctor ur a lawyer."
A. J. : •. Yes, hem!" (Dubiously, at se\'ernl }lointll.)
You teach-ah, yes, that'll it. [True.]
A. J. : .. What tmhject do I teach! ..
It is not French or German. (She had l\!ICertaincd at a "ery early Htl&gll'
in the cOIl\'el'!!I\tion, hy asking me-that I cuultl not tnlk French and llitl nut
know much of it.) Is it Greek 01' Latin 1
A. J.: "Nu."
Then what is it 1 Toll me.
A. J.: .. Naturnl Science."
[At auout this stage ?tIr. Myers CI\11\O hack.l
Mrs. Piper: Your name ill-Alim-Lizia, L-I-C-I--A. (Tried tospe I
it several times beginning with L-at last began with A, I remarking that t
was somewhere near, as she asked me if it wMn't l;ght. Filially she got at
Alicia,IUl<l I had to explain what my 1lI\1lle \\'1\11 and how to pronounce it.)
Goorge I like-your brother-not the sick one-he is getting on.
The other brother who has bad health-his llame is Will-Will--
W-I-L-L-I-A-l\I. [True. This nallle came out b'l'l\l.lually, wit,h JI
mistukes or corrections. I am not sure that she had not mentioned it hefor~
- -I\uylww it seemed clear to 111e that she kept his identity distinct in hei-
millliall the time, and ne\'er mixed him up with any uf the othen;, whero,,~
I coultlnot alwl~Ys lllake out which sister sbe was referring to whell she sJlok,·-
of thelll, alld I faucied she did not keep them distinct in her own mintl.]
There ill your sister, Eliz,,,. This lady (to Mr. Myers-menning me) i~
Digitized by Google
Certaill Phenomena of Tmuce. <ill
a teacher, she teaches something in the way of a sort of art. It is you that
know Annie-no-Fanny.
A.J.: "Yes, I know a FawlY."
Do you know a young lady who passed away with consumption 1
A. J. : "Well, I think I may know more than one."
She has sandy hair, blue eyes, peaked nose. She is troubled now about
her mother, who is still in the body.
[A cousin of mine who had very fair hair and blue eyes died of con-
sumption a few years ago ; but her mother had died before ller.]
Had you an aunt who died of cancer 1
A. J. : "Not that I know of, but I might not have known."
It is what I call cancer.
A. J. : "'Vas it a relation of my mother's-·her sister 1"
No, a relation of your father's.
[My father's step-mother died of cancer.]
You are to have good luck next year-a great advance in your profes-
sion-your I)osition. You have had some trying things happening to you
this last year--but you are going to succeed better. It will pay better.
A. J.: "Do you mean that I shall get more money, or merely that it will
be in a general way advantageous 1"
It will pay in a pecuniary way. I give you this as a test. • • • You
used to live in a little old place in the country.
A. J. : "I don't think I ever did."
Oh yes, you have furgotten. I see the place. I see your father's
influence round it. He will know about it. It is'a little old country place.
[I have always lived in Cambridge, where I was horn; but my father's
family came from a small country town to Cambridge, where he also
was born.] .
There is a spiritual influence on you now, lmving a great effect on you,
and it will have more. Your mother ill in the spirit [true], hut your
father is still in the botly, bllt I sec his IIpiritual influence-likc the influence
of Mrs. Myers (explaining that she meant Mr. Myers'mother).
Your father is a dreamy sort of man-he often does not see thillgll-
hecause he is thinking his OW11 thoughts. He doeR not notice--he is-
(pausing for a word).
A. J. : "Absent-minded 1"
Yes-that's it-absent-minded.
[This is not very correct.]
Ah (feeling her cheek and jaw), there is a sort of numbness
here. What is it 1 Is he paralysed '/
A. J. : "No-{)h no-he is not paralysed." (Then she began to feel my
face and under my chin, finally coming to the angle between the chin anll
throat).
This is the place. There is a peculinr condition here.
A. J. : "Do YOIl mean in the throat, or further lip in the mouth 1"
Here (touching me ljuite at the top of the throat). Not quite ill the
throat,-at the root of the tongue. (She wavered n little in the exn<;t
localisation of the ]I.·ut aftected.) There is something curiolls about him
ill the top of his throat-when he talks it catches ill hi!! throat-at l"oot~
Digitized by Google
612 A Record of Observations of
of tonjtue. Sometimes when he goes to 8I\y a thing he can't-then again he
can talk as well as anyone. Speech seems to be cut off" for a moment-he
stammers a little (she cleared her throat to illustrste how he did it).
Sometimes this troubles llim much-then he is not troubled at all.
[This description seemed to me and to all of my family (including my
father) to whom I repeated it to be romarkablygoodand accurate.]
(During the description of my father's throat, I at first answered, "Oh,"
in a doubtful way, thinking of something else suggested to me by her first
words and gestures. Then I 8I\W this did not fit, ami thought of the other
thing, which she was really describing. I probably assented to her descrip-
tion at various points.)
Your brother, the invalid, is touchy from his wealmess.
She then felt my hood and passed her hand over my eyes. She could
feel my spectacles-remarking, "You must not try your eyea too much.
You will have headaches if you read too much! . [My eyes are
rather weak, but not easily tired by reading.] I like your sister Eliza better
than any of the girls. There is another who is musical, and another-whom
you call Nellie-or Ellen." [My eldest sister, Lucy, is rather musiccll.]
A. J.: "No."
Well, then, Nettie or Kettie.
A. J. I "No, not exnctly."
[My second sister is named Harriet, and always called Hatty.]
Well, I can't tell what her name is-she is neither Eliza-nor the musical
one. She uses a brush. (Stroking my hand as if with a small soft brush.)
A. J. : "Brush 1" (Doubtfully-thinking of a hair-brush.)
Yes-she paillts--[true]-a paint-brush-I can see the paintings very
clearly. She will succeed in that well, if she goes on with it. Anyhow, she will
succeed, whatever she does. She is going to have an easy life. No el-il
will come to her. William is going to have a fall soon. He will be badly hurt.
Janet (name spelt and repeated several times), your sister's Tery
intimate friend (meaning apparently the sister last spoken of), has great
infiuence. F-R-E, Janet. (Fre I take for an attempt to begin to
spellfrieud.) She ill not aware of how grant her influence is.
[We have a cousin of this name, who is much younger than my sister.
My sist.er also has an intimate friend, named Lucy, who is always
called Janet by Rome of her friends, but not by my sister.]
Which of your sisters went out to a party the other night 1
A. J. : "Two of them went."
They are going ngain soon. I see them going-they have the invitation
now-it is very near to them.
In all the above there is very little-though there are certainly some
IJoints--in the descriptions of chal'llrte,'s of various members of my family
that I should think incorrect; in spite of the generality of most of the
terms used, they struck me as being rather spccially aJlplicable-as far as
they went-on the whole. This is not quite adequately represented in the
pa.rts of the com"erMtion that I have recorded, because I cannot remember
the words sufficiently, but I had the impression that the medium had frI()j"e
.lefinite «lid m(we accurate notions of the characters than I have been able to
reproduce in what I call remember of her words. A. J.
Digitized by Google
CC'riain Phe1UYinena of Trfl?lCe. 613
Thili sitting is carefully reported, and is one of the more successful.
It is, however, to some extent, open to the suspicion of systematic
guessing. I therefore propound the following hypothesis as to the
process which Phinuit may have employed; though I cannot help
feeling that the assumptions made are in many cases rather violent. I
must, however, say that the suggestion of a supposed connexion with
.Mrs. A. and Mrs. B. is not so gratuitous as it might seem; it is based
upon the use of a name which had to be changed in their reports.
The first guess is at the number of the family; an average number,
four, is taken, with "one besides" thrown in in case foul' be too few.
If, on the other hand, the number be too large, the one besides will be
explained as referring to a "relative in the spirit." But the sitter
J,rives some indication that there are more than four; the next guess is
right.
Four sisters possibly suggests that the sitter may be some con-
nexion of Mrs. A. and Mrs. B. who have sat recently. These ladies
had been said to have two brothers, rightly; but it had not appeared
that they had no more. Hence" two brothers are near you always,"
but the eldest brother "looks 0. long way off," because he had not yet
been introduced upon the stage, if he existed. The theory is, however,
soon found to be wrong, and is given up. The allusion to the sister
Elise or Eliza, "I saw her 0. little while ago, but she did not see me,"
also contains obvious possibilities of herlging; for it might be explained
whether the sister had already sat or not. If she hnd sat, the explana-
tion would of course be, "I was in the spirit."
\Ye then come to the favourite fishing name "Etl:' This is not
recognised in any of its forms, nnd is therefore chnngerl to Ida, a name
which, as Phinuit had found, was familiar to sevel".11 of his sitters.. In
this case, however, it is unsuccessful. Then another fishing name, Loo.
This is pllrtilllly acknowledged. Two very common names, John and
Jnmes, are tried in vain, but probably with enough indication on the
sitter's part to encourage Phinuit to effect a bold tmnsition to George;
right at last.
The knee as usual is selected as a site for It complaint for reasons
given previously. It is evident that here indications given by the
sitter may ha\'e led to the correct location of the In'other's suffering in
the foot.
Teaching as the situ-r's occupation is only guessed correctly nfu-r
three failures; it is a likely one at Cambridge. The name is got at
like othel'S from a vague bebrinning. "Aliza" would lead equally, with
the latitude which Phinuit nllows himself, to Elizabeth or Louisa.
" \Yilliam" is correct, but it is the commonest man's name, and could
p"obably, if desired, be altered to Walter, or made into one of the
common surnames, \Yilliams, Wilson, &c. "You know Annie or
Digitized by Google
6140 A R~col'd 0/ Obs~)·t'(lt ions of
Fannie" is agl,in "brue~ which would probably sU('ct>ed with a largo
majority of peuple.
"Had you an aunt who died of cancer" is a. fishing question such
as wa.-; asked of many sitters. Haying a partially favourable reply,
Dr. Phinuit bt>gins to hedge about the cancer, but with doubtful SUCCe8!;.
The" lady who pa..ssed out with consumption" is another obyious sort
of leading 'luestillll; but the description gin"ll, though general enough,
is not recognised at the time, so the matter is quietly dropped. TIm
guess about the house in the country is wrong, but "mother in the
spirit unci futher in the hody" is right; it has alrel\(ly been pointed
out thnt the chances IU'e at mrn.t three to one against it.
The descriptiun of the futher's character is not at 11.)1 correct. TlIPII
comes the feeling of cheek and jaw; "there is a sort of numbness here;
what i;; it ?" The following description slowly wOl·ked out wa.'i possihly
guide(l by unconscious hints.
Passing on'I' the ubvious conclusion dmwn from the spectacles and
the likt'ly gut's..; that out of four sistel"l; one is at lea."t oonsic1el't'd
musil'al by hl'l' fnmily, and that another one paint..., we come to
"Nellie OJ' Ellt'II." This might, of course, be Helen or Eleanor; but,
in dt'fault of these it is made to do duty fUI' Nettie or Kett.ie (Kaw,
Cathel·ine). Janet wouM, of CUUl"Se, han) been made into Jane if required.
But ewn this hypothesis leaves out of sight many cullnte1'll1 facts
which seem to SUlPl:;S the possibilitit's of chance. For instnnC('.
though the lIuml>f'r of the fmuily was right at the second attempt, yet
it is Ilot, as in the first attempt, a mere number, but has the additional
a.nd COJ,'t'ct dt'tnil, "foUl' Sll;tel'S and four brothel'S."' The fact of "
pre\"illU~ gUl'S-; huying beell made does nut by !lny menns reduce to a
negligihle quantity the dumces against the eonectness of 1\ guess like
this.
1\101"'O,"CI', if lIIusde-reading came into play, it led to the reading of
uncHnseious, nllt cunseious, thought. }'or Mil>s Johnson did not know
at tlw time uf the sitting that her father's step-motht'r had died of
caneer, ulu1 was, /IS a mutter of fact, thinking a.bout an aunt whoS(.'
death she faneit'tl- -wnmgly, as it turned out- might ha\"e been due to
this eau"t". Su, with reguI..l to the bnlther's suffering in the foot, thi~
was either a rathpr incorrect a.ccount of the blisters which had troublt'tl
one brothel', sOllie Illunths befoJ·e-whieh .Mil>S Johnson liad at the time
forguttell--(lr a l"orl't'ct account of the state of Ul1othel' brothel', about
which she 111111 not thell hem..l. Conl>idering that muscIe-I't'ooing in an
ordilllu'Y way dt'pends entirely on the sittel'"s concentration upou n
gin"ll thought, it is Illl duubt straining the theory to assume it as all
explanation whel"e attention is certainly directed elsewhere.
E\'en Oil the llIost unfavourable view, tht'J'efore, it seems Ill"CPss.u·y
to a,.-;-;ullle 111Orl" t hUll chance and skill in order to explain this sitting.
Digitized by Google
Oe)'iain Pltenmnena of Tr!tnce. 615
REPOIlT O}' PROFESSOR ASD MIlS. SlDm\"lCK,
As Mrs, Piper stuyed in our house nearly a week, it is perhal''I
fitting that we should make a short separate report, though we Im\'o
little to add to what has been said by Mr. Leaf.
In the first place we must record our complete belief in )11-8. Piper·...
honesty; a belief which wa;; only confirmed as our acquaintance with
her became more thorough.
We had ourselves nine sittings with her, foul' at Mr. Myers' house
and five at our own, and we nt'I'unged for and took notes of fi,'e othel's,
In three of these the sittel'S, llamely, Mrs. Verrall, Mrs, B., and Miss Alice
Johnson, were selected u.s having been previously more or less successful;
and in two of them the sitters, MI', Gale and Mr, Konstantnt, wel'O
strangers, introduced anonymously and unexpectedly, and in a way
which made it certain that infurmation could not with the best will
have been got up befurehand aUout thenl. Mr. KonstalUm was I~
stranger to ourselves and had nevel' been to the house before.
Our contribution to the im'estigation may be dh'ided into tIm'l}
heads.
(I) Attempts to get from DI'. Phinuit specific facts known to OUI'-
selves Imd known to de~'ied pel'SOJl.'i with some of whom be profes.-;ed
to be in communication. This WI1.'> in our case a complete failure,
unless we include undt'r this head the at.tempts of Dl·. Phinuit to give
the names of 1\11', Sidgwick's uncles, wbich were specially encouraged
through several sittingli. Here the success attained appears to us
'vorth mentioning, though not by itself decisively excluding lUeI'C
chance. Six out of seven of these names were ultimately given co\"
rectly, and correctly divided hetween the two sides of the family.
But the only uncommon namc was omitted, and five wrong namt's were
guessed hefore the tinalresult was arrived at.
(2) Attempts to get descriptiolL'i of whnt certain llel'Sons wel'l~
doing at the moment, the pel'!;on in qut'stion sometimes (Ull se"en oct'a-
sions) occupying him- Ill' herself specially with a "iew to the experi-
ment, and sometimes (nn thl-ee occasions) being merely engaged in hi...
or her ordinary avocntions, but in ench cuse those with Mt'S. Pipet·
being unaware of the exact nature of the occupation, Some idea of
the result of these experiments may be gathered fl'Om the abstracts IIi
the seances. To examine into the exact degl'CC of 1;t1(·Ct'ss which
nttended them would take up mOl'e space than the result would he
worth. 'Ve will merely say that, though inconclusive, we think they
wel'e not altogether unpromising, and that if furthel' OppOl·tUllity
offered it would be wOI,th while to pursue this line of iJl\'e;;tigutioll
further.
Digitized by Google
(ilG A Record of Obsen'afiolls of
\\'ith these experiments may be classed a modification of them tried
liS likely to be easier, namely, attempts to answeJ' the questions, "How
lllany fingers is So-and-so holding up ?" the person in question being in
the room behind a screen. Dr. Phinuit rather took to this fOlm of
1'xperiment and insisted on trying it sometimes when the sitters might
have preferred something else. His success, however, was not \,('£y
startling though probably beyond what chance would produce. It
seemed, too, to confirm the view that his success in other things WIIS
supentormal; since, so far as the small number of trials enables us to
judge, he succeeded in this with sitters whom he succeeded well with
.,therwise. The following tuble gives a summary of the results:-
t:MBER OF Gc F. •
, ITTER •
R ight at I Right
IDoubtful.
I
fir~t gu . at second Wrong. Total.
gue"R.
Mrs. Verrall .... .. ........ . 2 ... 1 ... 3
Irs. B. ..................... 2 1 1 2 G
Miss A. J ohnson ......... :3 ... ... 7 1
II'. 'idgwick ............ 1 1 ... 1 3
frs. 'jdg\\"ick ............ 1 1 ... 5 7
Total ..........·......·1 !)
I 3
1
2
I 15 29
Xumber or Fingers I Hight at I Right I :Nllml>t'r of
held up. first gu~,,-.. at "l'c':lUd Doubtful. Wrong. times held
I guess. up.
10 1 ... .., ... 1
V, 8, 7 ... ... ... ... 0
II ... ... ... 1 1
[, ... ... 2 5 7'
4 2 1 ... 1 4
3 2 ... ... 2 4
2 3 2 ... 1 6
1 1 ... ... 4 5
0 '" ... ... 1 1
Total .... .. .... .. .... ..1 V -I 3 2
I 15 29
Dr. Philluit generally specified the fingeJ's but was often confused
as to which hand they belonged to. Ignoring the ditl'ercnce between
the two hands, his guesses as to which fingers were held up, when he
was more or less J'ight as to the number, were right or wrong as
follows :-
Digitized by Coogle
- - ---
Certctin Phenomena of Tntnce.
NUlIBER Qt' G UESSES.
SITTER .
RI
'ght at Right P t' II
first guess. at fleCOncl Doubtful. ar Ia Y
guess. \Yl'Ong.
l\h s. Yc1'rall .... ..... ..... .
l\Irs. n. ..................... 22 1
Miss A. J ohnson ...... ... 2 1
Mr. idgwick ........ .. .. 1 1
M1'8. idglYick .. " "" " " 1 1
---
Toti\l ,"" ,.. ," " ,"" G 3 4 1
G17
Total.
3
4
3
2
2
14
(3) Under the third head we put all the infOl'mation volunteered by
Dr. Phinuit. There is little under this head to add w what Mr. Leaf
has said in his summary of the I'epol-ts of the seances. Dr. Phinuit
clearly connected us together as husband and wife and later gave OUI'
name, though, as we believe, no clue as to our identity had been given,
and we had been introduced at :Mr. Myers' house separately and
anonymously, and had not been seen together. He also, as will be seen
from the abstracts of seances, made a few strikingly correct statements
about us and persons connected with us, but these were so much mixed
up with what was false or vague that it is impossible to attach much
evidential value to them. His degree of success was very decidedly
greater with Mr. Gale and Mr. Konstamm, especially the former, amI
we al'e disposed to attach some illlportance to these sittings.
In conclusion we may say that, while our own experience taken by
itself would not establish Dr. Phinuit's claim to supernormally acquirefl
knowledge, it seems to us to support to some extent that claim,
which fl'om the reports of othel'S we belie\'e to be justified.
P.S.--By MRS. SIDGWICK.
On my own account I should like to add one 01' two remarks to OUi'
joint report printed above. I was present either as sitter or as
repol·t.er-sometimes both-at all, except one, of the sittings at OUi'
own house, and had, therefore, some opportunity of observing the
difference between Phinuit's manner at good sittings and at bad one-:,
I should charactet'ise all those in which I was myself the sitter as bad;
comparatively little knowledge of my affairs was shown, and Phinuit's
manner was correspondingly hesitating and uncertain, and his com-
munications full of vague guesses and "fishing." The effect both on
I On(' of these was dt.ubtful and the others not sufficiently specified in our notes,
but 1 helieve all were right.
2 One of thcic was 0.1110 fingel's : 80 the number being right there was no further
doubt.
Digitized by Coogle
G18 .A Record of ObHe1'!:ationR of
llillu;!'lf !lnd on me WIlS wearying a.nd ,I!'pressing, II.n(1 it is, I think.
'Iuite likely that this depression I'encted again on hi>! "lucidity," and
I'PlHlered success hopeless. At a good sitting this guessing and" fish.
ing" seeme!1 at times quite absent. The sitting which impres..~ me
most strongly in this way was No. 64, that of :Mr. H. Gale (of which Mr.
uuf has given an abridged account, p. 642), /11111 this although one or
two of the things said to :Mr. Konstamm were pel'haps more striking.
}Ir. Gille's sitting, like many othel'S, became vl1/,-rue 1\\1(1 more incoherent
towards the end, but during all the earlier pllrt of it Phinuit gave the
impression of really knowing what he was talking about. He described
::\h. Gale's father and mother 8.'! if he had them before him; in a bad
light, perhaps, or rather far off, so that he could not make them out
with ahsolute distinctnes.'!, but still as if he wel'e trying to describe
wh!\t he saw, not at all IlS if he wel'e guessing. I was ahsolutely
ignol'll.nt of the facts myself, and my impression is that it wal! as much
Phinuit's manller as lIr. Gale's which made me feel at the time that a.
t.rue account was being given.
Another point of some interest is the question of the importance of
Yel'hatim repOl·ts of the seances. It has often heen said that it is only
hy 8hOl1,hal1(l report.'! that the weak points of the seances can be fully
lll'OUght out. There is no doubt that full reports are valuable in this
way, but I think that they would sometimes bring out strong points as
well as weak ones. I felt, while I Wl'Ote as fust as I could (without
shorthand) for :Mr. Gale, that a vel'batim report would have brought
out many details which I was forced to omit or could do but scant
jnstice to.
On the other hand, the evidential value of a shorthand report may
c:\sily he overrated. When so much may depend on manner, gestul'E'.,
amI tone of voice, bot.h in Phinuit allfi the sitter, the fullest shorthand
report cannot be complete.
PROFESSOR C. RlcnET's REPORT.
Madame P. forme, pour aiMi dire, la transition entre les mediums
~pirites voyants tels qu'on les connait ell Amerique, et les somnambules
tels que nous les connaissolls ell France.
On ne l'endort pas par Ie procede des passE'S magnetiques, mais elle
entre en t,'ance pour aiMi dire spontanement.
Ce n'est pas cepemlant tout-iL-fait spontanement; car elle a besoin
pour sa trance de saisir la main de quelqu'un. Alol'S elle prend 111. main
pendant quelques minutes en restant en silence et dans une demi-
obscuriM. Au bout de quelque temps-de 5 a 15 minutes~lle est
prise de petites convulsiollB spasmodiques qui vont en s'exagcrant, en
.
Digitized by Google
Certa ill Pltenornenn of T"l!'I/('e, 619
se terminant pal' une p~tite crise epileptiforme tres m()dcl'(~e. Au sortir
de cette crise clle tomhe dans un etllt de stupeur, avec respiration un
peu stertoreuse, qui dUI"C pres d'une ou deux minutes; puis, tout d'un
coup, elle sort de cette stupeur par un eclat de voix. Sa voix a change;
ce n'est plus Madame P. qui est Ill, mais Ull autre personnage, Ie
DI'. Phinuit, qui parle avec ulle gro3se Yoix, a alhll'es viriles, avec un
aCl!el1t me1allge de patois negre, de Fran"ais, et cle dialecte Americain.
II s'agit. de savoir si Ie Dr. Phil1uit prcsenw reellemellt des
phcnomlmes de lucidite, et si les noms qu'il dOllne de diifcl"Cnts person-
nages, vus ou entendus autour de l'obserVo.tcUl·, s'appliquent a des
realites.
II est anoter que dans 111. plupart des experiences l'observateur ne
quitte pas Ill. main de Madame P.
Voici maintenaut Ie resultat de mes observations, au point de vue de
cette luciditti.
Le premier nom qu'elle m'ait donne est Ie nom de ...l[ari~ Anne ..
mais elle ne 1'80 pas donne en reponse aune question venant de mil. part.
Or, il se trouve que ce nom de Marie Aune a etc mele 8. un episode de
m!l. jeune,sse <tu'il serait trop long de raconter ici, et qui ct.uit, ell tout
cas, absolument inconnu de toutes les perSOlll1es se trouvllut 8. Cambridge.
Je lui ai demande quelques details sur Mal'ie Anile; elle ne Ill'a dit
(lue des erl"Curs, sauf ce fait, qui est exact, qu'elle demeurait pl-t!S de 111.
maison d'ecole.
Madame P. ne connaissait pa.'!, parait-il, mon nom; mais j'admets
(':)mme trim possible qu'elle l'ait appris, soit des personnes de la mllisOI1
"ayant prononce par inadvert.ence, soit qu'elle l'ait devine d'apl'es milo
llationalitC, (Elle a frequentC pendant deux nns )11'. 'Villiam .James
(·t 1\11'. Hodgson, et a lu les P1'oceedin!J8 (Ie 1/\ Socict>ti Alllth'icllille de
Recherches Psychiques.) Elle m'a dit que je m'al'peluis Clmrle8, et (lue je
faisl1.is de In. medecine. Alors je lui ai parM de mOil grnnd-pere: elle
m'a dit qu'il s'appelait Cl,arle8 comme moi, ce 'lui est exact, quoique je
lui eusse dit que c'etait Ie pere de mil. mCt-e. Elle a njouM qu'il
s'appelait RicMtet, et elle a precise chaque lettre sans etre aidee par moi
I't spontancment. :Mais je ne puis attacher aces fnit~ une importance
primol'diale, car il est fort possible qu'elle eonulit-inrcmscielllment--
111011 110m.
AIOl'S je lui o.i demandc quelques details SUI' mon grand-ph·e. Elle
n'lL rien pu dire, ou du moins n'a dit que des en'('urs lI1cme hes gros-
Ilieres etnombreuses; m'assurant qu'iletait soldat --chimiste-rul'lIecin-
que je demeurais chez lui--qu'il avait un chicn; tous faits inexacts. J e
lui ai dit qu'il avait traduit ell Fran"ais un auteur Amcr-ieain. II lui n.
etC impOSsible de dire lequel. Elle a dit, Hellry J amefol, Hawthul'lll>,
.,h., sans pouvoir dire }t~ranklin.
Comme elle parlait de chien, je lui l1.i demande <l'un petit chien que
Digitized by Google
620 A Record of Observations (If
j'avais et qui est mort. EUe m'a dit sans hesiter Pick. Or ce fait est
bien important, et c'est, a mon sens, Ie meilleur resultat qu'elle ait
donne; car mon chien s'appelait Dick,. et il faut a.dmettre qu'elle ne
savait absolumellt PI'" ce nom, illconnu 11 Cambridge comme aBoston.
D'autres demandes SUI' Ie llombre des enfants ont etC suivies
d'absolu illsucces. Elle a dit successivement, 4-3-2-5-1, sans pouyoir
dire Ie llombre exact, non plus que les noms.
Le lendemaill.jelJense 11 lui demander Ie nom d'une personne do m:L
familIe mOl-te depuis 10ngtemps, et dont Ie nom a etC donne pour moi
dans les premieres experiences de spiritisme que j'ai faites. J'en pn.rlp-
aM. Myers dans Ie COUl'S de 180 journee, sans lui dire Ie nom de cetto
personne, absolument inconnu de lui et de tout Ie monde. De plus, je
pense, mentalement, qu'il serait interessant de demander quelques
details encore sur mon grand-pere, en particulier Ie petit-nom de ma.
grand'-mere; mais je n'en dis rien apersonne.
Or, dans Ie cours de l'experience du lundi, donnant 10. main a :Mlle.
X., elle a. dit 10 nom de Louise, qui ne s'appliquait piL'J du tout a.
Mlle. X., et qui est precisement Ie nom que je cherchais. Elle a dit
en outre Ie nom de Renoi, qui ne s'appliquait a rien relativement aMll('.
X, mais ou sont les premieres lettres du nom de mon gmnd-pere, nom
qu'elle ne c()nnaissait pas. (Ce nom a eM imprime cependallt dans les
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research.) II est Y\'ai que ni 10
nom de LJUise ni Ie nom de Relloi n'ont etC par Madame Piper attribue..,
amoi ou aquelques personnes de rna famille; co qui ote enormement de
valeur a leur signification, puisqu'en les disant Madame Piper ne
s'adressait pas amoi, mai.'J 11 ::\Ille. X.
S'adt'essant amoi, Madame Piper me dit, "Je vous parlorai d'AdCTa.'·
Or Adela est Ie nom de rna grand-mere. II est vrai que Madame Piper
11e peut me dire queUes etaient mes conllexions de famille avec Adela.
Pour etre complet, je dois mentionner un fait curieux. Elle me dit,
"Vous avez des pilules dans votre poche," et en les touchant 0.,\'00 Ie
doigt, les palpant, et les epluchant-sRns y gouter-elle dit hardiment
et sans Msiter, "C'est de 10. quinine"; ce qui est exact. L'experiellcc
eut etC bien plus interessante s'il se fUt agi d'autre chose de moins
commun que 10. quinine. (Compare" cinchona," p. 510.-'V. L.)
Bref, pour resumer ces faits, il n'y a dans mes experiences avcc
Madame Piper qu'un seul fait incontestable de lucidite: car je n'att.-\Cht~
de valeur absolue qu'aux reponses faites 11 une question. C'CRt Ie nom 0('
Pick pour Dick: alors que certainement rien ne pouvait Ie lui indiquc;"
C'est Ie hasaro ou bien la lucidiM.: ce ne peut etre autre chose.
Quant aIn. honne foi (consciente), elle est absolument certaine ,: ('t
pour tout obset'yateur habitue aYoil' les sOlllnambules, ret-at de Madam','
Pipet' est tout-a-£ait Ie meme qUl' l'etat de somnambules en sommeil
magnctique, avec transfurmations de personnalite.
Digitized by Google
Oe'I'tain Phenomen(t of Trance. 621
ApPENDIX.
COMPLETE LIST 011' SITTINGS HELD BY MRS. PIPER WilEN IN ENGLAND.
1,2,3. With M,'. F. W. H. Myers.
These sittings were held in order to gain familiarity with the pheno-
mena, and no full notes were taken. Various correct statements were
made about members of Mr. Myers' family: that he had a father ill the
spirit ~nd a mother in the body ; that he had two brothers, Ernest and
Al-thur, but no sisters; tha.t his father was named :Frederic and had
been a clergyman; that his wife had a father, named Charles, in the
Spil-it, and a brother, Chades, in the body, and two sisters, Ella (real
llame Elsie) a.nd Lollie (real llame Dolly); that his mothel' had a
sister :Mary, or Marianne,and a brother John. None of these statements
can be considered to haye evidential value, as they couM probably have
been "got up" even in America.
4. November 24th. lVitlt" Mrs. A." See cl~taUed '/"ej>a/·t, 1). 581.
5. N01:~r 25tll. With Mrs. Vermll. See (kt(,il~d Ttj>OI-t, 1'. 584.
6. Norembel' 25t1I. With" Mrs. B."
"Mrs. R" is a sister of "Mrs. A.," and various facts about the
family stated to the latter and repeated to the former are omitted.
The Christian names given are changed for the reasons explained
on p. 58l.
"Mrs. R," on entering the room while the medium, whom she had
not seen before, was in It. state of trance, was immediately addressed by
hel' name.
This is Jennie. I'm 80 glad to see you. Yes, I like you, you are a
nice person. Did Isabel tell you all the things I told her yesterday about
your brothers and sisters and your father and mother 1
Mrs. B: "Yes, she told me many of them. But how do you know that
she and I have any connexion 1"
Dr. P. : I felt the same in1l.uence; and, besides, your father told me. Ho
spoke to me of you, Alice Jane (and here he spelt the second name).
Here facts about the family were repeated. Then, breaking offsuddenly :
But have you not been very ill lately 1
Mrs. B. : " Yes, I have."
More repetition of Ilames of family; the medium was again unable to
give the name of the sister who had remained unnamed in Mrs. A.'s sitting.
Dr. P. asks, "L, Loo, do you know what I mean 1 Is there 110 (lne of this
name 1"
l\lrs. B. : "No" (but see next sitting).
Dr. P.': Silent again. Then," A-D-E, A-D-A, Ada; dOll't you
know the name 1"
Mrs. B.: "Yes, but it is not the name of my sister. I have a great
friend of tha.t name. Call you tell me anything about her 1..
2 u
Digitized by Google
G22 .A Record of Obsen'atiolls oj
Dr. P. : Yes, she ill a remarkable person. She Im'l had a great deal of
trouble in her life which s40 certainly has not deserved. But I think she
hILS better times in store. (This, though vague enough. is correct as Car as
it goes.)
Mrs. B. : "Can you toll me anything about my home and my sur-
roundingK I ..
In reply to this question descriptions were given oC various rooms and
..bjectR. none oC which were correct, except that close by where Mrs. B.
lil·ed was a large building, a sort of school.
Dr. P. (after " pause): Tell me who is Sarah who lives in your
llouse 1
Mrs. B. : .. She is the parlour-l11l\id."
Dr. P. : She is a good girl. but she hM funny ways. S]le fidgets about a
good deal. She let something drop a few days ago.
(Mrs. B. rel11l\rks: "This I thought at the time was not true. but after-
wards I remember that Sarah had come to me on my return from London a
Cew days ago. to say that while I was away sho had broken a coloured claret
glass which made up a set which are not often used..')
Dr. P. then gave a very incorrect account of "Mr. B. 's" chAracter, but
AAid rightly. "He teaches something-what you rolla profeSllOr, I suppose ;
and spends Ii great deal of time over his books and gets very tired with work
aometimeR. Tell me who is Matilda." Mrs. B. says: .. For"
moment I could not think of anyone of the name, and he rather impatiently
asked me the question again." .. She wa.'! Rtaying with you a few days ago.
She is your husband's mother-your mother-in-law it is called. I think."
Dr. P. then gave a description of the la(ly in question. which Mrs_ B.
considered correct. but which can hardly be quoted as evidential.
Mrs. B. asked if Dr. P. knew anything about a friend of hers abroad.
Dr. P. aRked: A man or a woman 1
Mrs. B. replied: "A woman."
Dr. P. said: She is better than she was. and I think will go on well.
This reply was unsatisfactory to Mrs. B.
The remarkable points about this sitting are, the immediate
,·ecognition of the sitter before she had en'n spoken, so that even the
tone of voice coulrl have been no guide; and the de.scription of Mrs. B.'s
mother-in-law by name. Here there could clearly have been no guidance
on Mrs. B.'s part, as she did not recognise the pel"SOn spoken of till she
was told that it was her mother-in-law. The other statements made
could possibly be explained either by fishing or by a slight knowledge
of local gossip. The question about Samh may evidently have been of
the former class; when it was once known that she was a parlour-maid.
it was a fairly safe guess to say that she had recent-Iy let something
drop.
7. Norember 26th. lVit/,. Mi~ Alire Johnson. .'WI' p. 608.
8. NoremlNr 26th. With Mrs. H. Sidgu·i.-k.
Mrs. Sidgwick was introduced anonymously. The notes were
written out from her recollection immediately after the sitting, Mr.
Digitized by Google
Cedain Phe1wmena of Trance. 623
lIyers having been sent out of the room. The following were the
correct statements made :-
That the Kitter had a father, mother, and brother in the spirit-world;
that the brother had come there since the mother; that Mrs. S. had two
sisters both alive; that her IlUKband Rtlldied milch; that his father was in
the spirit-world; that Khe and her husballd were both anxious to learn the
truth; and that the dead brother had in hiK lifetime anxiously sought for fact~.
"Theile varioull Ktatements scattered through the sitting were, I think,
tJle only true oneil made without fishing about at all.
.. Dr. Phinuit allowed me no brothers at firKt except the one in the spiJit-
world, bllt ultimately added 'Arthur' (right), after trying to fit that name
.m to the one in the other world. I told him before the end of the sitting
that I had three brothers alive. He said my husband's name was Henry with
very little previnuK heKitation, though at nne point he tentatively suggeste(l
that Henry was an Earl; and he praised him I' good deal. He settled that
I had no children, hut only after trying to induce me to own to a very smart
young man 1\11 my HOll. Failing in this he identified the smart young lIIan
as a perKon of the name of Smith and a pupil of my husband's. (Cannot be
identified.) He correctly gave 'Villiam as the name of Illy hw;band'Oi father,
:\Ild Charlell 1\11 the name of a dead uncle, I\nd Robert 1\11 the llallle of a living
uncle of mine, but thiK was only after trying whether theOie nameR would tin
for other relative!!. He gave a prediction about my uncle. (Not yet
reali!!ed nor likely to be.) He said that my mother had died of geneml
wel\kneRll of Kevernl orgaIlll, ill particular the heart. Thill was fairly accumte,
though rather indefinite. I thought it pretty good. He gave my mother'K
eolouring wrong, however, fair brown hair tunled greyish, but fair brown
llair is a good description of my own. He said that I had taken care of my
brother in hi!! ilInesli. Later on in the seance I asked what he had die(t
of, or how he died, I forget which; he said correctly of an accident, of n
fall, hurt his head. But he went on to Hpeak of care of him after the
a::cident, which waOl wrong. He said he wa>l cngaged in studying and had
heen cut off in the midllt of work, which is true. He spoke of an Abhie, 01'
Addie, AdehLide, and wa.'! pleased when I admitted that I had an aunt of that
nallle. He Kllid that Rhe had left a child, which was true. (She died whcn
the child, now grown up, waR born. It was I, not Phinuit, who identifil.>tl
Adelaide as an aunt.)
" But a great Ill/my names were mentioned and even pressed which I can-
not conllect with anyone at all. He attempted to describe my house, but a.'i
far as I understood it was all wrong, except that a dark-haired young
person, llIl.!d ~) be very faithful, and engaged in brushing, might do for the
parlour-maid. He was very anxious that I should recognise 0. woman whom
he named variously Alison, Ellison, Harrison, and who died of some affec-
tion of the throat and bronchial tubes, and who was connected with 1\ Louisa.
I have a cousin named Louisa, but that does not give any clue. Neverthe-
less he insi1lted on my remembering about thi>l perKOn and trying to recogniHe
ller. He also gave me as a test that my brother Arthur had been worrietl-
husiness troubles-a person named George unfaithful-but all would collie
right. This' teRt' is Tery inappropriate in connexion with my brother,
2 U 2
624 A Re('cn'd of Obsel't'ation8 of
Arthur Balfuur. Any' gettiug UlJ' of me and lily family must lun'e led t, ..
more accurate knowledge respecting him."
It ill evident that so many vague statementll, mixed with so much
that is wrong, cl,n bave no evidential "alue. The only interest of thE"
sitting lies in the fact that t.here was clearly 110 "getting up" of
Mrs. Sidgwick's family, or, at all ewnts, if anything had bet>n got up, it.
was not applied to her.
!J. Nor~lIlber 2';11,. P,."fe&llJl· U. H. [)lII'will, F.R.S.
Ou nrriving at Mr. Myel'8' house I saw the medium for "bout half :\.
minute in the drawing-room, and was int.roduqed as Mr. Smith.
The first part IIf the sitting WIUI devoted to my ailments. This wn,....
certainly a keen medical diagnosis, but it was, I think, uot more than a doctor
might venture to say from inspection of me when he knew th"t he was to be-
rewarded for " correct diRgllOsis, nnd not to suffer for a wrong one. I w"'...
Mid to study, or think much; this is " safe conjecture in a unh'el'8ity toWI1~
when the observer is fortitiec.l by observation.
The stlcond half of the sitting was demted to my friends. Not a singl~
1l8me or person was named correctly, although perhaJl8 8 or 10 were
Jl8mec.l. My father was referred to by three different Christi811 11Iun08, All
incorrect. I was said to lmve two children (correct), and "fter changing
nbout the sexes several times, they were got correct. On this occasion I was
to correct the medium whell she WIUI in error.
10. NOl"f'mber 2';1". M'·II. V"""all, S,,(o/l(1 sitfillY. &e p. 086,
11. Nor.cm/H'I· 281", M,'. F. W, H. M!lel's, FOIl"''' sUfi'llY.
At this sitting the name of "Willi"m Shec.lgwiek" was given. Mr. Myers
was told "to remember it and tell that gentleman." Mr. E. was stated to
he present. ..Do you know someone called Lyttelton1 His father is here ;
and wants to send his love to his son." AHked if he-l\lr. E.-has ever com-
municated through anyone ulKe, he writes .. X, Mi88 X." (with one lettcr
of name wrong. It had beun given with the same error in America).
Here thel'e is nothing that can be called evidential. The statement.
that Mr. E, had communicated through Miss X, had already been
gil'ell in America.
12. NI"'('mbel' 29f1" Ml'Il. B. .'krolllilliftill!/. MI'S• .8.', rt'}JQrl,
I Rm glad to soc you, Jennie. I like you very much. You are Alice
JAne. Your name is Jane, but you are called Jennie. You will have a
present quite soon. It will come in a parcel, and there will be something
red about it.
MI'8. B.: .. Have you found out any more about •• since I
saw you 1"
Here Dr. Phinuit told me some remarkable and unmistakable facts
about a friend abroad which are quite unknown to anyone here, and which
are too intimate to write down. They were given me as I believed them to
be, hut I now find that ill one particular my belief was in error.
Mrs. B.: .. Do you remember mentioning the name Loo, the other day T
What do you know of Loo1" (After the last sitting I had recollected Afriend
who was commonly known by the name of Lew,)
Digitized by Google
Certain Phenomen(~ of Trance.
Dr. Phinuit thought for a moment. ..Do you mean !I. man or a WOIl1l\111"
'Then he quickly continued, "Of courRe you menn a mall; L-E-'V-I-S."
(The name waR Kpelt deliberately without any hesitation; it was cOI"I"ect.)
.. He has not been very well; he has had a bad cold. He has a great Illany
worries; he 11/\8 mental worries beside domestic and financial worrieH."
Here Dr. Phiuuit nsked me, "Who ill Nih, or Neb i" but I could not t1"l\ce
ihe nnme. Since then I hnve thought it prohahly was an attempt at X.....i,
which is the name of Lewis'H hrothllr. Dr. Phinuit al:,;o made attempt!; to
tind the name of my sister which he fniled to gllt 11\I\t time. He made ynrious
cffort.'1, which Reemed to be n confuRioll between her two names, but gave
the firRt letter of the name required correctly. He again referred to the
brother with the bad ann, and then went on, "You remember I talklld la.'<t
time about Ada. Hm· hUHhand is vllry ill." The place and nature of hill
illness were indicated with al'proximnte accu1"l\cy, and his surname was spelt
~uite deliberately.
Mrs. B.: "Do you know what my Rister Isabel is doing at present" 01'
where she iii?"
Dr. Phinuit said 80methillg about her heing with her sisters, but evidently
...lid not know 111. all.
Mrs. B.: "Do you know whom I went to see on my way here thifl
lllorning ?"
Dr. P. : Yes, 1\ ml\ll; he i" a remal'knble man. He has a prominent
nose, dark hair and beard, and what 1\ funny hat or cap he iH wearing: Hifl
surl'OUn(linbfS are mo"t comfortable; I ClllI Ree his nrm-chair by the fire and
pictures round his room, and it looks out into a courtyard, 1\ very old looking
place. Doesn't he stammer or speak in a funny way? You knew Mr. E. I
He sends you hi" kind respects and hill love to hill siJ.;ter Ellen, who is ill
the body. Husnmund and Eliza are in the Hpirit. [Names right.]
Mrs. B. : "Can you tellmo what Illy husband is doing at present '/ "
Dr. P.: Yes, he is sitting at a desk in a room like a library, with 11.
lal'ge book and papers round him.
This sitting contains two remarkahle pieces of eddence which seem
"Iuite beyond the suspicion of having heen got up; first the statement
,.ahout the friend abroad, which l\II·". B. is confident could not ha\'e
heen known to anyone in the town hut herself; and, secondly, tho
41escriptioll of hel' fl'iend whom she hall called to see on the way tf)
:\Ir. Myers' house. The account of 1\1r. - - could hardly be appliell
to any other friellll, and is chat"aetel'istic of sOllle of the points which
would sh'ike It stmnger, but it is not cOl'l'ect to say that he stammcn;,
,although his manncr of speaking is remarkably deliberate. The ollly
hypothesis to explain it on !lny ground except thought-transference is
t.lmt )lrs. Piper had obtained accurate descl'iptiollS of all Mrs. R's
friends in Cambl'if\ge, and had accidentally succeeded in guessing at til('
,one on whom she had called a few minute" before.
Thought·tmnsfeJ·ence is enough to account for all that was sai(l,
allli is stl'Ongly ~uggeste,l by the errol' in detail in the facts about the
.distant fl'iend, whidl coincided with Mrs. TI.'s own belief.
626 A Record of Ob8e1'/'ati-OIIH of
13. Nur~fnbtl' 29th, M,'. Ol('(/j' BI'",rll;II,.
This was a short sitting, Mr. Browning following .,Mrs. B." The tranco
elUled after a very few minutell. Mr, Browning gives the following report :
Th·. Phinuit told mo that I was a good fellow, that I !lllloked too much, and
described a IImoking cap which I habitually wear. Ho said that there was n.
spirit closely connocted with me named Mariana-my mother'lI name ; that
lihe wore a cameo hrooch with a head upon it, which ill quite true, and that
she wanted to know where it was. He IIl'0ke alKO of two other spirits, William
and Arthur, elder brother!! who are dead, the last two who died, and the only
two I knew well. lIe alK(, said that my grandfather's name was Tholllas~
which ill, I beliel'e, true of both my grandfathers, and that his wife's name
WaR Sarah. I do not know "'hether this is true or not. (Mr. Browning lIub-·
Htl(lllently found th"t it was lIot true of his grandmother, but that the wife of
un IIncle, also a Thomas, WI\!! named Sarah.) He also said that I was Ol'er-
worked, and should not work 110 hard, which is probably true. lIe also said
that I had had a good deal of trouble, which is true. hut that it was now
comillg to an end. He also IIpuke about all uncle George, but not l'ery clearly_
I IlSked him where my nephews "re, the sons of Arthur. He said that one
was in Australia and one in Philadelphia, but I do not know whether this il'i
true. (Mr. Browning hIlS lIubse'luelltly IIScertained that one was in fact ill
Philadelphia at the time ; he was known to be in America. The other was
believed to he in India, but may have gone to Australia; tillS has not yet
l)een ascertained). He al!1O IIpoke of my !lister, and described her in a way
which is absolutely true. At the same time it is not the first thing which,
wuultl have occurred to me tu say about her, but it probably would bal'e been
the first thing my mother would hal'e Mid.
Although many of the matters lltateli by Phinuit were undoubtedly known.
t/l me, they were not all in my mind at the time. After the interview I had
the IItrong impreRllion that the conununications came from my mother, who
hnd died about six months before, although Phinuit did not at all !IOek t<»
com'oy thill impression.
III thi!! sitting there SI.'eIllS to have been clear thought-t\'ansferl.'nl..'e_
Tt would seem that hardly anything definitely \\Tong was said; ,mel
Mr. Browning say!! that he hnl-dly spoke at nIl, so that 110 assistance.'
elm have been given by the sitter. The Illore interesting que,'>tioll'
l'emnills as to whethel' thel'e is evidence of more than thought-
tmnsfel'ence, This depends largE-lyon whethel' it is ultimately foullll
out that Mr. Browning's nephew, supposed to be in Ill!lill, was really
in Aust\'alia.. The f,ld thnt (Ille was in Philadelphia, though this Wll."·
uut known to the sittE.'I·, is of less weight. The name of thE.' town may
he 110 more than a bold gueSll, correct by chancf'; and is tn SOlllt~
I'xtent discounted when we find that ill one of the Li\'erpool sittings a
)lCl'S01l was wrongly said to be ill Philadelphia, in 11 street which tUI'Il;"
1I1It to be nOll-existent. This tends to prove t,hnt Philadelphia is a
Illlme used by Phinuit for purposes of fishing. 1<1oreo"er,1<1r RruwnillJ.f
La..." sillce informed me that some months ago his mother had received a.
Digitized by Google
O:'/'iain PltenO'fnena of Trance. 627
letter from the nephew in Philadelphia and read it to him, but without
informing him where it was written from.
14. Novembel' 29tlt. PmjUMJr G. H. Durwin, IleCQlul sitting. The
following report is yil-en by the Bitter:-
The medium spoke of my sister, and corrected herself to sister-in-law,
giving the llAme right, and of my brother, with no llAme, who was very ill.
The illness, although wrongly specified, was more or less in the right region.
A spirit llAmed D-A-R-\V-I-N, spelt, not pronounced, sent a message.
I was told that I had two children (right), both boys (wrong), and that they
were good-tempered (right). There was other "ague infonllation about thelll
not worth recording. My father was dead (inforlllAtion derived from previous
sitting), my mother lil-ing, which I believe was also known in the same way;
certain ailments of my mother were llAmed (wholly wrong). My wife was
Mid to have a pain in the left side which the medium localised exactly,
and my wife was said to think that it was due to her heart, but the medium
said it arose from the spleen. The day before my wife had complained of
some pain in the left side, but it was localised by the medium wrongly by six
inches, and my wife knew it was not due to the heart or spleen; on this day
she had no pain. My wife was said to have had an absce&, (wrong). My
eldest boy (a girl) was said to sulfer from relaxed throat, but the seat of the
ailment was the glottis. She had been having a slight sore throat the day
before, but I think it was nearly or quite well on thill day. She has
certainly some very Hlight tendency to stammer.
Almost every statement mnde could have been given if the mediulll could
have discoveredl11Y llAme and a few fragments of Cambridge talk between the
first sitting and the second. The only things which appear to me even at
all remarkable are the IItatementli about my wife and child, which will III\\'0
been seen to contain much error. In the second sitting it WIll! agreed that I
should not correct the medium when wrong, and thill appears to me far
IJrefcrable to the plan adopted in the first, when IIhe WI\II corrected. I
remain wholly unconvinced either of any remarkable powers 01' of thought-
transference.
15. NOl'cmbu 2!l/II. PmjclJSVr II"'Il'!! Sitlfllrirl;.
The Hitter, who was, like the others, introduced allonYllll.usly, Willi
apparently regnrded at once as the husband of the lady of Sitting 8, allli
told that he luuI IU, childrcn; that his father Willi William, alld WI\8 in the
spirit; that he was a doctor of laws, that is, a doctor of .. study," not of
medicine. This was an right. He WI\8 then told that his wife WR.'J sitting ill
a large chair, talking to another Illdy, and wearing something on her head.
This was so far right; Mrs. Si(lgwick was at the time sitting 1\8 descrihed,
with a blue handkerchief on her head, put on with a "iew to thl' experiment,
ml(I talking to :Miss Alice Johnson. It Willi, howe\'er, wrongly st.'\ted that
she was in a 1'00111 "on the right-hand bide of your apartment as you go in,"
and that the lady with her had a honnet 011. He was afterwards con'ectly Mill
to ha"e two hrothers, the eldest \Villiam, and was told that hi.'J own lIamo waK
Hcnry. A "fairly correot" accoullt of his brother \Yilliam WI\8 gi"en. But
all this was mixed up with so large a proportion of untrue, un\'erifiable, or con-
fUlled statement!!, as almost entirely to depri\'e the Ritting of evidential "a!tll'.
Digitized by Google
(;28 A Record of Ob.'Iert'afiollH of
16. Nf)N!II~~" 30th. Prof_r O. Lvdye. ,'l.·e his tletail..d report, p. 465.
17. De.-ember 1st. Dr. A. T. ~Vyer~.
The sitter's aill1lent.~ were pretty correctly described, and some oM·
fashioned l'tJ1Ilec:lies were recommended for thelll. He was said to have been
at IiChool at •• Chelter .. (Cheltenham ?). Scveml names were given M those
of friends, but were not in any case l'tJcClgnisec:1. The sitting is of no "Illue
as evidence.
18. V"umbel' Isf. M,'. A. lIiul-v..r...w·(,.
MI'. Dill'OnCO i.~ a German gentleman wh" r,,~iderl fur some time at
Cambridge, and WM well known to Mr. Myel'N.
The sitter WI\S tuld that he had a friend in the body named Edward
(wrong). Was u!lked if he knew Williams 1 Nu. .. That ring has your
mother's influence: you have had it a long time. (Right.) There laM been
a little difficulty here, near the heart ; your brother 11M had it. (Right.)
Another ring. a newer influence; you have not had this lin lung." (Right.) He
was told then about his mother. .. She is in t.he l)fJ(ly ; she has headachCK.
(Right.) She ill lying down, not in bed, not "ery far away, iu another
person's hou.'Ie." Ou inquiry, Mr. Deronco founcl that hill mother was at the
t.ime lying on a lIofa, but she was in her own house, and a long way oft', in
Hermany. Then fullowec:l various confused and npparently wrong state-
IIIcnt.'!. Then:" Your brother had trouble with a cough, and on clOlle
examination they found that the nerve of the heart WI\ll weak. He hM had
1\ IImall gMtrie difficulty. He is a smart fellow, n good brnin, writes a good
chml." All this Mr. Deronco says is right. .. Your brother is older and
tdler than yom. A (lifferent type of man." (Right.) The name Anna wl\.~
given amI recugnised. .. A spirit named Mariana Browning sends her love
to her son Geor<Je." (See sitting No. 12. Mrs. Browning had a brother
George, but no son of that name.) Mr. Derollco's brother was de-
scribed as .. going into a large building where there are a lot of bookN;
then into all office-like place, with a dtl/lk ill it antI writing materials. A
dark fellow, called John, with him, who is dishonest." This was all wrong.
Then, aftcr milch hesitation, the medium said thnt Mr. Deronco's brother WUH
painting a picture. Asked:" Are there many figures? " Dr. Phinuit said:
.. I scc one head; it is side-face." It appeared. after inquiry in Germany,
that Mr. Deronco's hrother .. WI\I! at that moment painting, aud that the
picture was really a portrait of :Manfred, " single figure til projU." Dr.
Phinuit alKOl mude Kome statements as to 1\1r. Deronco's Imst history, wllieh
were true, but which are not for publication. He WI\I! also told correctly
thnt he had olle cousin M:lx and another Alhert. At the beginning of the
sitting he WI\I! snill to be .. killd of French." At the end he wa.~ told:
•• You arll 1I0t French hut German."
The statements in this sitting were 1I10,.,tly right; if t.'1.ken by
themsehcs they might possihly aomit the supposition of chance
success.
19. p,."jcs...,,· A. ~ll"cAli••tel·, F.R.:iJ. lJ"ct'lIibu 211d. &'c 1'. 603.
20. JI,..•. H. SidyIl·ick. Srr-uml sitting. lJ.'('rlllllt'l· 3,.".
1\1l'1!. Sidgwick WI\II llOW deurly identified all the wife of the sitter
Digitized by Google
Catain Phenomena of Trcmce. 029
·(If No. 15. "I saw you through the medium, I saw you tnlking to another
Indy." (Sec Sitting 15.) Frank was now clearly identified as a brother.
" Who is Hcllener I" may have been an attempt to get nt Ml'll. Sidgwick's
Christian Mme, Elennor, but looks suspiciously like a fishing quesHon. A
lady friend with tuothache was not identified. Various unrecogniKe<1names
were given. l'rlr!!. Sidgwick's mother and her house were minutely but fInite
wrongly described. Frank, Arthur, Charles, and Edward were gh'en as the
names of her brothers; the two firKt were right, and Charl68 is the Kecond
llame of another deceased brother, but not the one by which he was alwaYK
callell. Her hUKband's sunlame was given as "Hedgwick, Hedgestone."
The answeJ'S to yarious test-questions put by MI'S. Si(lgwick were
prolllised hut neYer given. In short, the sitting was 1\ fl\ilure.
21. .11,'. T. Bark,oorth.Dc('el1wer 31'tl. &!e p. 606.
2'2. p,.,.jeJl8()/' II. Si<i!lwick. SecQml sitfi11f1. D')c(,IIIlJe,. 4th.
The stutelllents made at this sitting appear to Imye been wholly
wro>'~, except in so far as they were repetitions of what hall heen
previo'ls1y said either to ProfesSUI' or Mrs. Sid~:\·wick.
23. P"'d~"''''''' U. Ricltef. Decelliber 6th. See hiupeciul /'epvrt. p. 1)18.
24. ;lli<lS X. Det'l'lIIbCl' 7tll.
Miss X. was introduced, veiled, to the medium in thc tl'ance Ktate,
immediately aftcr her arrival at Mr. Myers' housc. She wnl! nt once
rccogllllle<1, and luulled. "You are a medium; you write when you don't
want to. You ha,'e got Mr. E.'s influence about you. This isl'rlis.'1 X.
that I tolll you about." She was Imbsequcnt.ly addressed hy her Christian
name, one of similar Bound heing first used but corrected immcdiately.
..\. lnrge part of the statements made at this amI the following
sittings were (lllite correct, but in nearly all cnseK of so private and
personal a nature that it is impossible to publish them. Only fragments,
the\'ef'Jre, can he given, with the propel' names omittell. But these
lIittings were perhaps the most successful and cOln'incing of the whole
seriel!.
" You know that military-looking gentleman with t.he big COllt on and the
fUllny buttons on thc pads here, on the collar. It is someone ,'cry ncar you
ill the spirit." This iK a correct description, so far Il.S it goel<, of a near
relation.
" Howclhl s)lcaks ; he tells me he blOWK the Martins, your friends; they
kllow one of my books." These nallles were not recognised.
" You Kee flowers sometimes?" (Asked," What is my favourite flower 1
There if! a spirit who would know.") "Pansies. No, dclicate pink mses.
You h",'e them ahout you, spiritually as well as physically." l\1iss X. lUll!
on " certain day" ill eycry month 1\ present of delicnte pink roscs. She
frequcntly has hallucinatory visions of flowers.
"There is all old Indy in the spirit wearing 1\ C/\}l who is fOlld of you-
your grnndmother. She is the mother of the clergyman's wife's mother. (Not
correct.) She wears a lace collar and a hig brooch, hluish-greyeyes, dark hair
Digitized by Google
630 A Record of Ubservations of
turned greyU!II, with a black ribbon mnning through it; rather prominent
nose, and peaked chin ; lIamed Anne." This is n correct description of /I.
friend of Mills X., whom she WI\8 in the habit of ealling GnuUlY.
On two occasions Dr. Phinuit desired that witnesses should leav6
the room, a requeRt which as it happens was quite justified by the yery
persolllLl and primte nature of the facts which he quite correctly com-
municated. Intermixeu with these were the following, which }Iiss X.
flupplies froIn her own notes, made 011 each occasioll within two or three
houl'R. Dr. Phinuit described all entertainment at which l\liss X. had
IJt'e1l present, her IXlllition in the room, the appearnnce of her companion,
including a mal'ked personal peculiarity, ILnd its MUse, giving the
Christian name of the same friend and the suhject of tht'ir cOllwrsatioll,
and the circumstanct'R of Miss X.'s return homt'-all with absolute
correctness, except liS to time, which was said ttl ha,-e been "last
evening," whereas it was the evening befor·e.
25. ~Ii....~ X. Herond siitillY. DerclIlbe,' 8th.
PI'Ofessor Charles Richet and ·Walter Leaf were also present; tht"
latter only f(ll' a few minutes at the beginning. He WILS at once called
"i,llter when the trnnce came on, but the evidential value of this is
diminished by the fact that MI'. Myers had accidentally used his
surname in the medium's presence before the trnnce. It was added,
"'Valtel' has a stiff arm," which may be a ('(,ference to his hMing
liUfferec:l from '\Titer's cramp; but this was not alluded to in subsequent
sittings.
MiHII X. wml told that her mother'l! sil!ter Wrul lllimed Sarah. It was ssid
that she was in the hody, but this wal! corrected to ., in the spirit" after l~
(IUestion. Her brothers' names were given 1\8 G--, A--, W--. A--.
B--, con'ectIy, nIl but B-- being very common; but in the case of A--
Ilnd B-- only lit the second attempt, John and Walter ha"ing been first
given illBtead. W-- WI\!! the llame of n brother who had died in infancy,
and whom Mis-'I X. had never known. MisH X. at first denied that the Dame
WI\8 correct, hAving llfllIaIly heard of him by his secoud name H---, but after-
wards remelllhered that \V-- was coiTect. She WI\8 further told rigbt.ly
that A-- WlUl nn nrtillt, and B-- the handsomest of t.he family. A
medallion which she showed WI\!! I!tated to be given by a friend who..'le ,-ery
rare Christian and summue were rightly obtnined, the olle after hesitatioll
but no faIlle shots, the other at the I!econd attempt.
Two names of which Profellsnr Richet hnd been thinking were given
without any conllexion. They were .. Louille" and "Adele." (See his
report.)
21i. 11Ii~s X. Tlti,.d sittiHJ. Decernl)(',' Otlt.
Expel'imellts were tried in the l'eading of closed en"eloJlt'.~, but
without success. The question was asked, "''"hat Wll.'l the name of
the spirit whieh _colTllllunicated with Richet at the first seance he ever
attended 1" and the incorrect answer" Marialme " \Va.'! given.
Digitized by Google
631
Mrs. Piper now left Cambridge and came to London, whel"e the
following flittings, to No. 3ri, took place, at her lodgings, No. ~i,
Montagu.street, 'V.C.
27..Mr. F. lJerembe,· 111h.
1\lr. F., n member of tile Council of the
Research, wiflhes his name to be kept private.
phenomena of the trallce, he continues:-
Society for Psychical
Aftel" describing the
The pel'llOllification, which I IIha11 speak of 1\8 "the doctor," claimed to
be a departed IIpirit, aJl(1 profe!llled to lIee confusedly my friends, announcing
correctly the pel'llOns of my father's family, and nearly correctly of my OWll.
He seemed to he trying hy gueK.'1es I\nd questiollll to extraot 1\8 well UlI to
give infonnation. MallY of his IItatemenbl were wholly, and some partially,
incorrect., but some of them were so unaccountably correct that they arc
worthy of record. It lIeems impol!llible that they were mere guesseR.
The doctor Mill that I had 1\11 uncle lIamed William, but I could recol-
lect no oue of an older generatioll of this name, and said so. He replied
that he WI\II certainly right, alld allked me to thillk it over carefully. After
some rambling, he came hllck to thc lIuhject, and said that he was certainly
right, and that the portrait of my uncle William was just to the left as olle
would enter my room, lind that it WILli II Hupel'ior painting. I then, for the
first time, remembercd that I had II great-uncle of this name whom I hall
ne,·er seen, and wholle portrait hung in t.he place named. No one out of Illy
family, and, indeed, not all the llIemherK of it, knew his mme, which hlltl
/lCl\rcely e,·er been mentioned in our home convel"ll8tionll. The doctor said
that he WI\II II good aJl(lllhle man. The fl\ctll IIrc that his principal distinction
had been in his intintllte l\88ociation with Wilherforce lind Clarkson in thc
abritatioll fur the I\!x,lition of the sluve trl\dc.
Thc doctul" stated thut my fllther WI\S dellf ill the left ear. He WIIS deaf
ill one car, which I beIie,·c to havc heen the left. Standing alone this might
lIeem a mel"c guellS.
He stated that I had IOllt II chiltl, six or sel-en years old, of scarlet fenr.
Thill WaH tnlC, f;l1\"e the age, which Willi 10 yoors. He also said that I had
lOllt a child in infancy, whieh WIU! true of II child of five years.
He said thut I had lost a ncar relutive, lIIllIled MIlI"Y, by cancer, whidt
was true of II Hister-in-Iaw ; but he m1l1ed the llllme of Caroline, which WUl<'
incorrect.
He lil\id that my son Imd un intimate fricnd named Harold, which WII~
true, hut added that his futher waR w/ltching him from the spirit-world. Hi...
father iii IIlh·e.
He Mitl t.lmt I had supposed mYlielf likely to die of heart disell.<;e, hilt
that I had a hellrt in good IIction, lind reliahle till I should rcnch II hundre(j'
years, and th"t. whatever might he the "Ylllptont", they CIlme from the splcen,.
and meant 110 danger. The fllct:; are, thllt llbout eight yellrs ago sc\"emf
physiciullli hud told me thllt I hl\d not long to live, becllulle of the dillellse!l
:lction of my hCllrt ; hut thiH pro,·cd to he all entirc mistake, 1111 I lUll now
equal to long I\IUI swift Mcents without incollvenience.
He said t1mt my youllger hrother Huft·crcd from II weakening dianlw.Il,
Digitized by Google
(i32 .A Ret'Ql'd of Obserl;atUJIl8 of
which weakcned hill blood, amI that he oyer-exerted hinllltlU. This is prc-
~:scly truc.
Had. I supposed the doctor to be all illdh'idual, or l,ersonality, I should
Il:we said that he WM a coarlie, crafty person, endeavouring by leading
~tlLtelllents, probable in t,he hilltory of anyone at my time of life, to
IU'Lke succeHllful gucso;es, and get out infurmation from me. I noted that
when I corrected any stat-ement he would }lAA.'! on to other things, and after
n tillle make the statement according to my correction. Ytlt I gave no clue
til the remarkable descriptions, which were COlTect.
But after making e"ery allowance f'.lr this, and after reckoning all
the numerous errors, ROme of the statements from one who till a few bOIlnl
hcfore WaH 0. perfect stmnger from across the Atlantic, not knowu to a single
member of my family, and never a visitm' to Illy house, wertl !j(1 remarkable
~~!! to convince lIle uf a real and Huhtle power ILt work which ill beyond my
'iulution, but which I attribute to mind-trallsference.
In this sitting the most noticeable points arc the exact location of
the uucle's portrait, as a. means of reellllillg him to the sitter's memoryj
:1nl.1 the singularly accurate statements about his past illness.
28. MI". F. Secoud 8it1ill~f. D~cemhe,. 12th.
:MrH. Piper again to-day went into the 1II0l!t singular condition of seeming
to be acted upon by the French "doctor." She told COITectly that my
lIlother had died while I was beyond a great water. I was at the time in
Switzerland and my mother in AlllericlI, the year being 1874. The doctor
(Iwclt on a. Thomas connected with Illy father'H family, and on a Mary given
to drinking. A Scotch gardener lllulled ThomM was a very prominent
member of lily father's huusellOld for nearly thirty yearN, al1(\ his wife Mary
wa'! intempemtc. He described my cider bl"Other as lhing among amI
writ,jng bouks, and Mid cmphatically, .. Your 1.I1der, uot your younger
hrother." My older brother WI\S 1\ librarian, I\ud passed his life among books,
nJ1t1 also wrote some works.
But a description of my unclo William hefore refen-e<l to and of his
ol!cupntion WI18 almost whl.llly wrong; he wal! liaid ttl be 1\ military officer in
0111'0 of wounded men, whereas ho WII'; .11 Quaker philant.llropist. Tho
perfl.lrmance WaH thoroughly unsatisfactm'Y, lind I gave my place to Miss C.
The whole thing, the convulsiolls lit the beginning amI \lillI, the cosrso
vl.lice, the rough, familiar and half prof,\11o wOl'lls used in the conversation,
the manifest effort to hedge when a mi:-;take had. becn malle, and t.he
profanation of sacred meml.lries by iille, ullIlleaning, and mostly untrue or
only half true statements, all left a profound f;ense of distrellll on my mind,
mul an unwillingnesl!, Mve for the sakc of duty, to enter on sucb a. per-
formance aglLin. Yet I aUl utttlrly unable t... conceive of hl.lw the statements
should he occ!\sil.lnally so strangely trUll, SllVe by t.he proccHti of unconscious
mind-tl"llnsferencc, and this I have to IIl'knowledge only imperfectly accounts
for all the facts.
29. "l!iss Gaf-rude C. Fi",.t ~illill:/. flu.t'mber 12fh.
This sitting was n continuation of that of ll!-. 1? Notes taken by
Dr. MYCl"fl. Miss Gertrude nnd lIi!'s Emily C. nrc sist~rs of Mrs. A.
Digitized by Google
Ce1'iain PltellOlnenct of Trance. 633
and Mrs. B. The l'eal names ure not given for reasons explained in the-
note to Mrs. A.'s sitting. Only an outline of the sittings is published,
as the really evidential statements were of so confidential a charncter
that they cannot be made known. Miss C. was introduced as "Miss.
Jones."
The sitting began with a repetition of \'arious things which had been
already told to Mrs. A. nnd Mrs. B. l\irs. B.'s llusband was mentioned by
his Christian and surname, but the usual wrong description of his charactel'
was gh'en. " Gertrude" was mentioned by nnme, but apparently not
identified at first with the sitter. Dr. Phinuit promised to give the name of
Mrs. A.'s husband, but never did 80. A personal description of a friend.
WI\8 given, which was right, but of no evidential value, as the friend in
question WI\S already well known to the medium. He WI\8 said to have a.
brothel' William, which was wrong; and a young cousin in the spirit-world,
but without any description by which she could be identified. Several nallle~
were mentioned which the sitter could not connect with anyone.
30. MI'. WHiteI' Leaf. December 12th.
Phinuit made a number of statements about my family, some right but
more wrong. He said that my mother had two siHters, which was corrected
into" there are two mother's sisters; that's your mother, that is one, a11(l
her sister, that is two." In this form it is correct. He wrongly said that
my a!lDt lived at some distance from us, and that she suffered from her
fltomach; but rightly that she suft'ered from her throat. He afterwards gave
1\ fairly good account of her character: "she is almighty set. Not obstinate,
Imt fixed in her ways; she has ideas and you can't change them, old-lDaidish
in fact. She is very generous and does lots of good." My mother's brother
WaH wrongly said to have died long ago.
I wa.~ wrongly told that I had two brothers. One was said to suft'or from
headachcs through the temples. This I denied at the time, but afterwards
found WILli correct. The other was said to have.died long ago. This is quitc
wrung; I ne\'er had a second brother. I was rightly told that I had no sisters.
I was also told there was William, whose influence was round me. This is
tru~, 1\8 I have had a grandfather, an uncle, and two cousins of that name.
lu a later sitting William was said to be my father, which is wrong.
A me88l\ge WI\8 given purporting to come from Edmund Gurney. In thc
CIlUl'llC of it I was told "there are two letters, one about an appointment.
CillO about an engagement." I asked, "'Vllat sort of engagement 1" " It is
all engagement about work 1\11£1 studies. The letter is in 1\ little drawer
in the desk; look at it and read it over." When this was said, I
remembered that I had kept a letter written to me mnny yearn ago by
Edmund Gurney, announcing his ellgagement to be married. This I knew
would be in a certain drawer in my desk. On looking, I found that there
were, in fact, two letters, both on the same subject, one of which I hatl
fIJrgotten. Neither of them was in connexion with work or studies.
Valious names were given as those of friends of mine, but I did not
recognise any of them. Dr. Myers was sent out of the room, and various
Htatements ahout my private affiI.irs were made, some of which were quite
wrong. Others were right., but I do not regard them as being of an CYi-
Digitized by Google
A Record of Obscn'atio7ts oj
tlelltialnature, a~ they might pOll8ibly lun-oJ been ac'lIlirod frulII 'Ulother oC
Mr:i. Piper's sitter:i, Nothing ill the sitting can be reganled "" of any
illlportance, as it is certainly within the range of lIucctlli8ful gues.'!ing that
I KhouM have kept two letters frolll Edlllund Gurney.
31. Miss (jedI'llde C. 8,,.·,,,,,/ siftill!!. De"ember 13th.
Dr. Phinuit began hy allllouncing that he had agl\in seen Miss C.'s
father, and Mid that he WitS horn in Irell\wl. AllkL't1 ""llere!" he said,
after much hesitation and confusion, "In the northern pl\rt, near
D-O-V-B-L--I-N." Thi>! i~ wrung; Miss C.'11 father \Va.'! born in.
Cork. Two of the siHtera were descrihell, with some COITectnellH. c'Then
there ill another; Hhe if! musical." ThiK must refer to tlllJ Hitter. " A.
i~ a friend of the one who plays; she pllintH a little and plays II little."
Mi>!s Gertrude C. hilS a friend name,l _\. who plays a little, hut lloes not
paint.
The eldest brother, hitherto spoken of hy Dr. Phinuit by hi.. first nalUe
Timothy, is now called hy his sec"ll<l nallle Frank, that by which he L'I
always known in the fllmily. The Christian nllllle of the third sister WIl-'1
als" gh'en for the fil'Ht time, with the re111ark, .. It is a 'lueer 1l>Lllle."
An attempt to get Dr. Phinuit to read the contentH of II se~\lell envelope,
ill which was a piece of pllper with the word>! "iliad," "La Fmnce," written
hy Dr. Myers hut not known til )onss C., was Il complete fl\ilure. The
envelope was Mill to contain a lock of Frank's hair.
.. Then there is a Mary in the spirit; Mary--something with an X ;
:\1- -U-L-L-E--R. (Miss C. supplied Max.) She had dark hrown hair
anll was very intimate with you. You went to /!Chool together. She talks
of you." This ill cOn'cct.
Miss C. ; "Do you know Fred,ly ! "
..Yes, I tried to tell you ahout him hefure, hut I could not get. at his IlI\l1le.
F-R-E-D-E-R-I--C--K is his name. You cl\ll him Freddy. He
liked you very much, ho think" of you. Do you know his father? He
pll.Hsod out of the body I\fte1' Freddy." It is true that tho friend referred to
tlied before his father.
"Mary Max MillIeI' told me to ask Gertrude if she rememhers when she
went to Kchool with her. She thinks of you and says you were very bright.
She passed out of the body with consumption; ,;lIe had a cuuj.(h; she is
trying to get back anll talk to you. f:he will come." The lady in question.
diL.Q. of heart disease, not uf conllumpthl\l.
The sitting closed with a very cllustic hut true and chllmcteristic account
<If an aunt, expres.'led with much humour.
'Vith respect to the confidential statements at this nIHI the preceding
"itting, )Iiss Gertrude C. "Tit~s ;-
When Dr. Philluit Rent Dr. Myers out of the 1'00111, at the fil'Ht sitting, it
was to tell me ahout a friend of mine whose conjugal relationx were rather
complicated. Dr. Phinuit dill not commit himself to very definite facts, but
as far as he went he was correct. At the moment this friend was much on lily
mind. And Dr. Phinuit said R011le thingR about her character, hut nothing
CJut of tho wily. He gave no nllme nor attempt at any,
The fact.'i he told me ahout myself were certainly Ilucb 1\" he would not
Certain Phenomena of T,'(Ofc('. 635
have been likely to guess at, and he mentioned names which he had no
possible reason for eOJlJlecting with me. The faetH he told were rather
striking, and so far as olle can tell were not known to anyone but myself.
Here he did commit himself to definite facts, and true on88 too, which could
not have referred to any but one person.
32. Mr. H. D. &lkstulI, M.B. Dp-ccmber 13th.
lo[r. Rolleston wa.o; introduced as l[r. Johnson. A few con'ect
statements were made to him, among a large number that were wrong.
The correct statements were :-
That his family consisted of seven persons; that F. C. WIUI a frieud and a
go(Klone, mentally in sympathy, trustworthy and sensihle. (This ill per-
fectly correct; the Christian and surMme were given lightly, though it
Hhould be added that they are both rather common.) That a friend haH
taken a trip on the continent because his throat and chest trouble him. (A
hrother had started a few days before for the South of Europe with cough amI
a little bronchitis, but mainly on account of heart trouble after rheumatism.)
One of the brothers WaH correctly said to be named Willie. A few more
"ague statements were approximately correct, but of no value.
The only point of interest is the mention of F. C. Even though the
lIames wel'e not unusual, the chances are evidently ellonnous against
their being rightly combined for a casual sitter. The lady in question
had no connexion whatever with any other Kittel's, nor was hel' name
mentioned by Dr. Phinuit before 01' after. She WitS not living in
London, and it is almost impossible to suppose that the fact had beeu
got up.
33. MiJIIJ Emily C. Fi"st SUtillY. De~('mbCl' 14th.
l\liss C. was introduced as Mrs. Robinson. Notes were taken by
DI·. }lyers.
Miss C. was immediately recognised by her Christian name, and told she
IULd been polishing something shiny. Miss C. had that morning heen
polishing some photographic slides, a jobwhich had heen giving her a great
<leal of trouble and work.
Dr. Phinuit mentioned the Christian name of a friend which MisR C.
recogni.'Ied amI told some details which were partly tnle. He thenl11entioned
all her brothers and sisters by name, as well as Mrs. B.'II hushand. All these
names had been previously gil'en to the other lIitters. He IUlkedafter Mrs.
A.'s little boy, but not by name.
Miss C. : "Do you know Ill8bel's husband 1"
"Yes, I like him. I will try and find his name. Til it Hiehal'd! (Wrong.)
Do you know Henry 1 He is Ill8bel's husba1l11'11 hruther." (Right.) Dr.
Phinuit said there was a relation of Mrs. A. and her h\ll~band called Knight,
who is not recognised, though they have 1\ COllllexiol1 hy marriage who is"
knight. Messages were then given from Miss C. 'II father anclmuthel' of the
J!8me import as those told to the other sitterH. t
A fairly accurate description of another friend, who WAIl IULmed, was theu
Digitized by Google
63G
given. " lou IUl\'e all uncle C. in the spirit-world and an aunt by luarriage-
called .Janc. You have a coU8in C. and an aunt whOlle name ends in -on_
You havc all Imnt E. ; you also have 1m aunt who ilia long way oft"."
Of the preceding lltatements it is true that Miss C. bl\H all uncle C. in·
the IIpirit, a cousin C., and an aWlt of the name gil'en (the same-
who had been previoU81y described to Miss Gertrude C.). She ha!\-
another aunt who ill in the South of Fnmce. She had all aunt Jane~
but by blood, not by marriage. It is poHSible, howe"er, that Dr.
Phinuit w"'~ alluding to an intimate friend called Jane. whOHC nalllC'
ends in -on, and who is sometimes jocularly called aunt. In the-
next lIitting Miss C. WI\H told that it WI\H her friend Jane. not an
aunt, who was referred to. (See also end of Mrs. Yen-all's lICCOll<T
lIitting, p. 589.)
MiHS C.: .. Do you know E. in the spirit-world 1"
"I lll,,-e seen her and she sends you her love." Dr. Phil1uit gave a slight
description of E., which was right I\H far '''' it went. "She WI\H very fond of
you, Emily; she had some trouble with her head, and died in cllild-birth.'~
(This is right, but Ulere L'i some confusion between the names E. and Ada.}
Dr. Phinuit then returned to the brothers' names, which he got confU8ed,
trying to make out that there wa..~ a tho-d brother of the name of Frederic.
who WM afterwards Mid to be Dr. Myers' brother. Dr. Myers llpoke of
MiN... C. I\H Mrs. Robh1llOn, n name which Dr. Phinuit indignantly repudiatt.'<l.
" That lady'll name is Emily. She is not MrR."
"luu havc a friend called H .••" (The name gil-en ill a ,'ery IUlU8U1\I
one, probably unique I\H a Christinn name. MillS C. had a note addressed to
him in her muff, which was lying on the table. A clever conjurer could no
doubt have taken an opportunity of seeing this.)
MiH.'1 C. I\IIkcd after nnother friend by name. Dr. Phinuit f!l\id he knew
her, hut described her personal appearance vaguely and not correctly. "You
have all uncle who is a little lame and gouty." (Right.) '1.'0 Dr. Myers ~
"She hl\H been polishing glass j glass things to drink out of." (See above.)
"You darned a lot of white linen about a week ago." (Wrong.) A. was
again mentioned. (See Miss Gertrude C.'s lIitting, p. 634.) "She is dArk and
hl\H dark eyes j she is not exactly pretty, but nice-looking." (Right.) Miss C.
WII.'1 said to be more like her father than any of the family. This would prob-
ahly be generally said.
34. Mi."" Emily C. SecQnd /fitti/lg. Dect'miJer lOt".
Full notes taken by Walter Leaf.
The Ritting began with some confU8ionl\H to the brotherR'nallles. MillS C.
w",.. tol<l that she had lost a purse ROme time ago. This ill wrong. Some
Christian names were given but not recognised. H...., who WI\H Kpoken of
in the IMt sitting, WI\H again mentioned, and Mid to be a friend, but not mucb
of a frhmd. Dr Phinuit Mid he knew his father, al1<l mother, and brother.
(The!4c form bis family.) Asked the name of hill brother, he failed to give it.
lJut said that the brother "WI\H drowned; he passed out in the water."
(H.'H brothel' died and WI\H buried at sea.)
A photograph of F.dmund Gurney was given to the medium, who pressed
it agaill!lt her forehead, front outwards, without looking at it, flO far as could
be Reon. It was correctly recognised. Another photograph of a deceased
Digitized by Google
- - - - _. ---III
Oertct'in Phenomena of Trance. 637
friend of W. L.'s WR8 then given to her, but she could make nothing of it. A
llealed letter, the contents of which were known to Miss C., WI\8 given her.
(The note WR8 to the effect that the writer's sister had got the intiuenza, and
co~ld not come to keep an appointment.)
Dr. P. : Oh, there is an illness described in there.
Miss C. : "What sort of illness 1 Bad 1..
Dr. P. : No, a very slight one, the illness of a friend. (After some more
questioning.) It is a friend, and she hR8 a cold, and the thing is chiefly that.
Another letter WR8 shown, the contents of which were not known to
1tliss C. This WR8 said to be an invitation; wrongly.
There WR8 then much repetition of former matter, in the course of which
Dr. Phinuit promised to give Miss C.'s surname to W. L. when he next saw
him. This WR8 done at the evening sitting on the same day. Miss C. WR8
told that she had had a dream about being on the water, of which she knows
nothing. After a great deal of vague and desultory talk the sitting closed
without anything more of an evidential nature.
35. Mr. H. WinJfi(tltl and Mr. Walter Leaf. Decembel·16tll.
Mr. Leaf held the medium's hand throughout. The first messages were
to him, about hi.ot " father" 'Villiam, who WR8 said "not to lecture and not
to write " but to be "a sort of tradesman." This is trne of his grandfather
William. After this the talk WR8 chiefly addressed to Mr. W., who was
rightly said to have a father, mother, three sisters, and two brothers. He
WR8 also truly told that he had a grandfather named J01111, a relative name(l
Arthur, and that one of his brothers was a long way oft' across the water,
and had been away a long time. But a large number of statements made
and names given were wholly wrong, and the only interesting point is that
the number of the family was given with confidence, and without any fishing.
After this Mrs. Piper left London for Liverpool, where the next
15 sittings, Nos. 36 to 50, were held. These are all discussed in Mr.
Lodge's separate report (pp. 470-525). After her return to London, Mrs.
Piper lodged in a private hotel in Manchest.er.street, where Nos. 51,
57, and 58 were held; 52 took place at Mr. Clarke's house at Harrow;
53 to 56 at Mr. Leaf's residence; 59 at Dr. Myers'.
51. J],·s. Herbert Leaf Fi1'gf sitting. December 28th. See p. 589.
52. MI'. (Iud MI'" J. T. (JIm·ke. December 29th. See p. 574.
53. Jlr,. Herbert Leaf Secmid sitting. December 30th.
This was a very confused and unsatisfactory sitting. The only
right statement definitely made was that Mrs. Leaf had an aunt who
married a l\h. ·Wood. She was told that her llame was Rosie, but she
had been called by this name before Dr. Phinuit, as well as before
lIrs. Pipet·. What was said about the lost bracelet (see p. 596)
distinctly implied that it had been st()len by a servant; whereas it had
been lost while Mrs. Leaf was walking in London with a friend. The
name of LKllie or Lulu was given; this is the name of Harry's sister.
But she \ms wrongly said to be in the spirit. Harry sent his love to
2 x
Digitized by Google
A Record of ObRel'l·at·ion.'l of
his wife. George wa'! said to have made a change for his good; it i~
true that he has been recently given a good appointment. Many Ilames
were given as friends of ~Irs. Leaf's father, but were quite unrecognised.
.
54. Mr. S. G. SlKtttock. De~mbt!r 31st.
Only imperfect notes of this sitting were taken, though a shorthand
'Hiter was present, as she and Mr. Walter Leaf were sent out of the
)'oom by Dr. Phinuit fo), the greater part of the time. The following
I·t'port by llr. Shattock, however, contains all the principal statement.~
St't out separately with comments :-
.. You have two brothers, hoth in the IIpirit," sullllequently corrected by
the medium into" one in the body and one in the spirit." I ha,"e a brother
in the body; one in the spirit is a wrong lltatement or guess. There is
Ilothing which can be COllstrued into it. This I know for certain.
" You h",'e a friend named Arthur. He ill at present ill, and likely to
pRill! away." I have an acquaintance of the name, but I could not without
Home delay lim} out if there is any truth in the last part of the statement.
He is a person of about middle age with wholl1 Illy aC(luaintance has long
Hince dropped.
"There is a child who hall passed out of the body with scarlet fever con-
nected with you." Medium stated this to be the child of an aunt. The
Iltatelllent iH not correct, as I ha"e no aunt on either side.
"Your father Thomas has got the rheulUatism." Here the mediulII
grasped my left knee. My father's name is not Thomas. He has muscular
rheumatism of the ordinary kind now and then in ,"arious parts of the body,
hut no marked articular rheumatism.
"You have an uncle Henry." The medium started with the name, and
it was I who, after lIome delay, volunteered the statement that I had an
uncle of the name, iIi ol'(}er to open up the way for further statements.
So. when the medium lltated that my father's name was Thomas, I
volunteered the statement that I had an uncle of the name. After this the
medium said, "I get your father's influence, and then I get Thoma.'I."
" You made a mistake in your life. It wa!! a long while ago. You made
a Kb,rt in life, and it did not prove to be very succellllful, and then you made
~mother, am} the second did..,
This is not true.
"Then I get no Kisterll." This is true, but was not a direct statement
..f the medium. It WIlS made after a conversation which led me to say I ha.d.
no sisters.
" There are two little boys, and one of them is very fidgety and nervous.
That is the eMest ; he likes to have his own way. The other is quieter in
disposition, and easier to get on with. This gentleman's lady is not well.
hilt she will be better, she will get out light." These s~tements I did not
at aU lead up to. They were given without any delay on tile part of the
medium, and they are the truth, though not the whole truth, as there is a
third boy dead. But the statement as it Ktands is satisfactory.
After variouK incorrect or un\"erifiable statements, "You h:,\"e a lady
fliend. Who is this 1 Lea 1" (pronouncing the. syllables sepamtely).
Digitized by Google
Certain PlwllOlnena of Tl'((nce. 639
A fter some waiting I volunteered the statement that I knew a lady called
Lenll. The mediwlI afterwards mllde Lea into Lena, pronouncing the word
... , Leana."
)Ir. Shattock remarks ;-
The only statements of any note coming direct from the medium were
those concerning the two boys. Of the others, some are quite erroneous;
other!! of such a genersl nature thnt no importance can be attached to them;
:\:1d others were so largely due to myself that they can hardly be called the
medium's.
I take it for granted that the medium was not simulnting IInother state;
thnt has, of course, been tested on previous occasions; though whether this
were so or not would not alter the facti! of the case. For there is no reason
why, in a (luasi-hypnotic state, the subject should not act much liS in the
waking state; lind it iR of cour!!e well-known that in such a condition decep-
tion mlly be had recollr!!e to. There ill nothing incredible, therefore, in
helieving that Mrs. Piper knows nothing of what occur!! in' the trance,
though while in the tr!!nce she may act in a very ordinary way, so far as any
manifestation of mental processeK goes.
Thought-rending or transference, I think, there cannot be in tho case ;
for /\II Mrs. Piper l\lISerted that no concentration of thought was neceKAAry, I
did not attempt anything of the kind. Much of what she Mid WII.'! the lll.st I
should hnve thought of. Muticle.reading seems altogether 'out of the
([uestion. So that I cannot but think that the statements mllde are only
shrewd gue88e.'!, made on n carefully planned system. She seemed to me to
feel the way by throwing out a Htray name, or making a general statement.
'fhere is, moreover, II wily shc hM of combining resultl! or expillining away
miRHtatements that is noteworthy.
\\Then it is remembered that the sitting occupied some three-quarter!! of
nn hour, and that the only really true statements of any note were tho.'!e I
II/we already mentioncd, there iH no need, it Heems to me, t<J a,";sume any
other power in the medium than that I have mentioned. Of course a lnrge
serics of observations may point to a different conclusion.
50. J!?"altcr Leaf awl Haberl Leaf. Decembe,' 31..t.
Mr. H. Leaf had not seen the medium at all till he came into the room
"fter the trance had commenced. After some talk, and the mention of a
name which W/\II not recognised, Dr. Phinuit suddenly said, "Tell Ro!!ie'K
gcntleman to come in." (Rosie iH Mr!!. H. Leaf, Rce her second sitting.)
1\1r. H. Leaf, who had been flitting on the other side of the table, Cl\Jlle an(1
k.ok the medium's hnnd. Dr. Phinuit says: .. You are Rosie's gentleman,
what you call her husband. There is a Charles about you. I get the same
influence with both of you; why, you are brothers. Walter, thiH is the one I
told you about that had the pain in his head (indicates right temple). It is
n sort of neuralgia. Charles must be your father; Walter, I thought that
William was your father till I got this other influence, but now I sec that
Charles is your father, nnd William is your grandfather, your father'H father."
For the neuralgia sce Illy fir!!t sitting, p. 633; the plnce wns rightly
indicated. The name of our father is Charles, and hiH father was
William as stated.
2 X 2
640 A Record of Obxer'Hlt·icnll~ of
After this everything WIl.S confUKed and unintelligible. Asked by H. L_
what his occupation WIl.S, Dr. Phinuit began with what would hetter have
suited me. He then went on to a description of which nothing at all could
be made, Imd gave vague descriptioll8 of persoll8 which might be explained
as certain friends of my brother's. But the whole thing was unsatisfactory_
It WIl.S, however, rightly Mid that our mother's mother WIl.S named Elizabeth.
but wrongly that she had a little scar on the left temple. Then Dr. Phinuit.
suddenly said, "Robert." Asked," What is that name?" he Mid, "No,
not Robert, Herbert. That's who you are. Your grandfather sends his love
to the two brothers, 'Valter and Herbert." .
The recognition of the connexion between Mr. H. L. and his wife antI
brother WIl.S striking. The medium had certainly not seen Mr. H. L. in hi.~
Domw state, and, so far Il.S could be told, did not see him in the trance. Slu~
WIl.S sitting with her head bent down and eyes closed Il.S usual. She had, how-
ever, had opportunities of leaming that our father's name WIl.S Charles, Il.S she
hlld been introduced to him in the flesh some days before. It is possible that
the name Herbert had slipped out in her presence. But I do not think it.
had. Elizabeth Il.S maternal grandmother may have been a me1·e guess.-W. L_
56. MI". W. A. Pyt!. JUltllU1'IJ bt, 1890. See def(/iledl"l'j)QI"t, p. 596.
After this sitting there were several intervals, owing to the ill-health
of Mrs. Piper. The next sittings were :-
57. Witl, MI". H. J. Hood. Jall1ul/"y 6th.
58. MI". H. J. Huod all(l MI·. C. C. MCUJlJeY. JtUI1WI"Y 7th.
There is nothing to report about these two sittings except that all
the statements made in them were either wrong or confused allll
unintelligible. Nothing whatever occurred to give evidence of the
slightest power of thought-transference or any similar capacity.
59. MI". Hell,.leigh W-erl!f1VQud. J(IJtIf(l/'y 11th.
The sitter was introduced as MI'. Wood. Some correct statement;."
were made in this sitting but almost without exception after a great
deal of beating about and some help from the sitter.
Mr. W. WIl.S told that he had a friend John Hensleigh. (Right.) Tllis
WIl.S first given a>l John Henry, and then spelt Hensley, Hensly, being
rel\ched only after many attempts, and with the help of Mr. W., who sai<l
that the letter after HEN WIl.S S. Phinuit said that his grandfather wa,,,
lame in the left leg (indicating the knee). Sir Josiah Wedgwood had a leg
amputated on account of trouble in the knee. Mr. 'Vedgwood did not know
which leg it WIl.S. But from subsequcnt inquiry it seems to ha,"e heen the
right. lIe was cOlTectly said to have had a sister Ann, which Mr. 'V. did uut
know at the time to be true. Mr. Wedgwood WIl.S rightly told he had a SOll
named Hensleigh, and his wife a sister Mary Elizabeth. (Mr. W. is not
sure that the first nallle WIl.S Mary). A little boy, "I think a ~..ralldson,··
was said to have been iUand to have changed his residence; it wn..~ also saill
that he had a brother who had died very young. This WIl.S true of a grand-
BOn who had come to visit Mr. H. W. after an illness. Mr. W. WIl.S Mid to
Digitized by Google
Ceriai1/, Plumornena of Tntnce. (j41
bave had three brothers, all pa!!8ed out, and no siKters. Asked," Do YOli
know that my second son has had an accident? ,. Dr. Phinuit, after sOllle
fencing, Mid that it was from a fall, and that a rib on the left side WAIl'
broken or bent. This was correct, but was not stated directly, but only after
much questioning. Mr. Wo's lady was Mid to have had a fall, "in fact two
·(If them had." It is true that both his wife and her sister had Vllry severe
falls, and suffered much from them.
After this }Irs. Piper returned to Cambridge. Sittings 60 to 69
inclusive took place at Professor Sidgwick's house, and some remarks
~,bout them will be found in Professor and }Irs. Sidgwick's report
(p.615). Sittings 70 to 76 were at Mr. Myers' house.
60. Mrlf. Sid[/Icick. Third lIittin[/. Ja,nuary 19th.
The names Hensleigh (spelt right) and Wedgwood were given, and ulti-
lllately referred to the Mme person. [See No. 59.] Mr. Sidgwick's actions
were wrongly described, but it is notewort11Y that he was said to Jle "standing
·Oll his head," a phra.se which he had jocosely used in Mrs. Piper's ahllellCe
to describe to Mrs. Sidgwick what he was going to do. " Vases" 'Were men-
tioned, apparently in connection with her brother F. This was probably a mero
gue88 at the thing belonging to him which Mrs. Sidgwick had asked about
in a fonner sitting. But the idea may have come from Mrs. S., as she had been
thinking of a vase of his earlier. A picture hanging in F.'s room, about which
l\lrs. Sidgwick had asked before, was wrongly described. The name of Ellie
,01' Allie was given and recognised by the sitter.
61. Mrs. Sulgtl)ick. FOIJl"fh ,Uting. JalUlaI'Y 19th.
Mr. Sidgwick was rightly Mid to be sitting with his feet up. But Dr. P.
:said .. on a chair"; they were on the stand of a wicker table turned upside
·down, and the rest of his actions were wrongly given. The sitter's father was
rightly Mid to have died when she was a child, and to have gone abroad and
never to have been 80 well afterwards. Mrs. Sidgwick was also told rightly
that she hud a sister who paints, and was different from the rest of the family.
But a number of names and statements were wrong or not recognised.
62. Pro!esJIO/' H. SitlYlI·;ck. Third lIittillg. Jall1lary 2Ot1l.
A partially right account of Mrs. Sidgwick's actions in another room WIW
:given. " She is reclining with something drawn over the back of her head
,nlld chest-a cloth thing; she is reading." But the cloth thing was wrongly
said to be dark. It was really a doctor's 8Cl\rlet hood. .. Alex" was Mid
to be connccted with Mrs. SKlgwick. (She had an uncle Alexa~der, never
·c,'\lled "Alex," however.) The names of three of Mr. Sidgwick's uncles
were rightly given, but two wrong ones were added. Mr. S. WI\S told rightly
that he had two aunts on the mother's side.
('.:3. ~1I1'''. Vel'I·Clll. Thi,.d lIittillY. JtllIlf(II'Y 20th.
Mrs. V. was told that the lXlrtrait of her uncle Henry (see p. 588) WI\8
done by her grandmother (right). That this uncle had gone away years ago,
.and that none of the flmlily knew what had become of him (right). That
.currie has 1\ George in the body (wrong). That she had two brothers ill the
Digitized by Google
642 A Reeo/·Ii of ()u~ei'!·(/fioll.~ of
spirit (right). and a father in the body (wrong).. That Mrs. V. 's mother hM:l
all only brother in the spirit (right). That Louis Wnll a name in her mother's
family (right), her husband? No, her brother. (Wrong: she had an unclo
Louis.) Asked what Dr. Verrall WnII doing at the moment, Dr. P. 8I\i(1
rightly that he Wnll sitting at a kind of desk, alld had been reading, but bact
put his book down in order to tlllk to another gentleman who had just come
in. Proful!8or Sidgwick WI\8, however, wl'ongly 8I\id to be walking. Philluit
also attempted to deHCribe to Mrs. Sidgwick what Mrs. Verrall was doing;
'the latter leaving the room for the purlJOtie. The description gh'en was not
wroug but was too vague to lmve much evidential vslue.
64. ~{I'. H(/r/Oll' Gale. (See p. 615.) J(Ij""I/'!I2211(/, 1890.
This sitting was chiefly occupied with a description of different members
of the sitter's family, which he recognised nil strikingly accurste. Tlw'
following are the most important points :-Wlmt is that thing your father
wears over his sholl](1ers 1 He looks quite important in it. He wears it
because (If his throat. He is in a different place from here.
Mr. Gale 8I\ys that the most noticeahle point in his father's appeanmce
is a white silk handkerchiuf which hu wears because of a Bensitivu-
lIess of his throat. He lh'es in Millnesota.
YOllr f'lther is a queer gellius--dreamy. He does not do much; he-
leaves that to someone else. He has an office, a desk, books, &c. His.
l)eculiaritius strike me very much.
Mr. Gale says that this is all right, as far nil it gues.
William, a brother. He is snmll, a bright little fellow, dark eyes, clem-
complexion, a pretty fellow, smart as a cricket.
Mr. Gale says that this is a COlTect account of his brother \Villiam. /l.
boy of 16 ; except that he is some 5ft. 7in. in height, whereas the
medium indicated with her Imnd a height of not more than 4ft_
You haye got a sister. She sings, and plays two different instruments;:
one with keys and one with strings-particularly the one with keys. She is.
a little younger than you, probably; but her age is difficult to tell from her-
appearallce. She is older than William.
Mr. Gale Ims a sister younger than himself and older than his brothel~
William. She sings, IUld plays the piano well, but does not l)iay
/lny stringed illStrument.
There is a millister in your family, an uncle, ill the sphit. Tall, fine·
physique; wears Hpectacles ; with a high forehead; sumething like you. He·
is your father's brother. He died some little time RgQ-away fronl you.
acrClss the water. He died suddenly. (Asked wbat dellClmination he be-
longed to, Dr. P. could not tell.) He used to wear a cape-a long coat thing•.
He Wnll not Episcopal, but like a Methodist-that sort of doctrine.
Mr. Gale had Iln uncle, his fllther's brother, who was a Baptist
mi88iolll\ry in Minnesota. The description of him is accurate,
except that he would not be considered /l tull man. He died sud-
denly 15 years ago while tnwelling in Pulestinc. He lIe\'er wore
a cape at home, but had one made hefore leal'ing for his trip t...
Palestine, to weal' 011 his overcoat.
There arc fil'e of you.-After some counting aud a little hell) from Ml'~
Digitized by Google
Oertain Phenome'lUt of Tntnce. 643
Gale, Dr. P. said that there were five not counting tho mother, three bOy3
and a girl, father and mother. (Right.)
Dr. P. then attempted to get the name of the second brother, trying
George, Geord, Jordan, .Jorge, but finally giving it up. The brother's second
nallle is Griggs, but he is never called by it. Dr. P. went on: "He gets
round about· the boys I\S well I\S anyone. He's got many friends; they all
like him. He is very haPl'y-go-lucky-musical-he can do everything,
whistle, sing, and dan~e. He is 110t far away. He hl\8 lots of letters and
friends. Girls like him "ery much. He is studying to be a lawyer 01'
doctor, or IIOmething of that IIOrt. He gets into different costumes and acts.
Do they call him Jack 1 John? They call him Pete; they call him every-
thing."
None of these names were right, though he is called by many names.
Nor is he studying for a profession. In other respects the state-
ments are accurate. This brother is the only one of Mr. Gale's
family who is not far away, in America. The name of Will Adams
WI\S given I\S that of a friend; but the brother hl\8 only the slightest
acquaintance with a man of that name.
A correct description was given of Mr. Gale's mother. She was said to
look very young for her age. .. She and Willi.'\m are more like one another
than the rest of the family. She is smaIl and rather dark." These and other
traits given are said by Mr. Gale to be strikingly con-ect.
The name Edward was then tried, and applied to brother, father, and
uncle, all wrongly. ,
When your mother went away it did her a great deal of good; she had a
cold on her chest. She has been staying with an elderly gentleman.
Mr. Gale's mother took a trip for her health Il\St spring. and retunll~d
greatly imprm·ed. But nothing is known of the elderly gentleman.
Your grandfather on your mother's side WI\S lame. (Asked" All his
life 1") No; but that one time. You don't remember that, but your mother
will tell you.
Mr. Gale finds that his matenll\l gr&ndfnther was lame from 1\ stroke of
paralysis for some 10 months. He remembers nothing of this, as
he did not see his g1'1mdfather during this time.
Edward; is he your uncle or your cousin? I don't like him, and I don't
know that anyone did. He don't seem to get on somehow.
Mr. Gale l'ecognises this 1\8 a cousin.
The name of Alice WI\S given, and finlllly said to belong to Edward's
sister. This WI\8 right; but she WI\S wrongly said to be musical. Mter this
the statements made were lUOStly wrong. The flame of Williams was given :
" It WI\8 your uncle, I think; a relative connected hy marriage. I think 011
the mother's side."
Mr. Gale remarks: .. I have a second cousin on my mother's side nallled
Mrs. ,\ViIliams, whom we Illways call aW1t, however. She hl\S been
a widow many years, and I never &'\w her husband."
65. Ml·S. H. Sidrwick. Fifth sitti"y. Jaw,cll'!! 22'/td.
There WI\S apparently an attempt to give the nallle of Cecil I\S connected
with the sitter's mother. An wlcle John and aunt Mary were rightly givell
to Professor S. Aftcr a number of guesses a letter scnt by ~frs. VeITall wns
Digitized by Google
A Record of Observations of
referred to her. Mrs. S. was said to have two Franks connected with her
and a GelT)' (pronounced, not spelt) who was much with Frank. This 11'&8
so far true; but G. was said not to be in the body, and probably there 11'&8
confusion with Profe8lOr Lodge's uncles Jerry and Frank. A large number
of names were given which were wrong.
00. Mr,. B. Third sitting. JUlluartJ 2"2Iul.
Mrs. Verrall was rightly said to be at the moment looking it a IICrt of
glaBI thing and turning it over; "a kind of round-looking thing, not a hAlI.
but something like it." .. A girl with her, her daughter; not the one with
the knees, llamed Helen. Helen's hair looks better than it did before.n (See
p. 586.) Vague allusions were made to the illness of Mrs. B.'s brother and
her sister-in-law. Mrs. Verrall's letter shown was rightly said to have the
in1luence of her sister and her husband.
67. MUs Alice Jo/ulMJ'lt. &cQtm SUti,lg. Janllary 23/'<1.
A match-box shown was rightly recognised as belonging to a brother.
.. He is reading this moment, he has his feet up on a chair and is leaning
back. He is in a comer room, you go up steps to get to it. There is a kind
of map or picture to the left, something that stands up; like that (screen).
He is alone. At the right-hand is a desk." This was all correct, except-
ing (1) the statement that he was alone at the time. A" rather appropriate ..
description of his character was given. " He is fairer than you and has more
colour." An attempted description of the actions of Miss Johnson's sister
was wrong. Miss J.'s watch·chain was felt. "That is your in1Iuence, you
bought it yourself" (right). A cheque was given to the medium ,,-hOlie
cyes remained closed ; she felt it and Raid, "It has got pay on it."
68. Profuaor H. SillgtVick. FUllrth sittillg. January 23lvl.
The names of Profe8lOr Sidgwick's uncles were at last gh-en correctly,
as William, Henry and John on the mother's side. and John, Robert and
James on the father's. But one, Christopher. was omitted. Finger-guessing
was not successful, and a description given of what Mrs. Verrall WI\I doing
at the time was completely wrong.
69. Mr. Ed1fJill Max Kmi-lltamlll. (See p. 615.) First sitting. JalllKllll24th.
After some vague and wrong statementa the sitter was told rightly that
there were five in his family, not counting father and mother. That he had
a sister Fannie-Anoie-whose head was hurt; that she had a pain in the
top of her head and confusion, coming from a fall while riding. This is true
of a Bister named Angela_ One of hiB parenta, afterwards specified as his
mother, was said to have a pain in the foot. TIlls was afterwards localised
in the toe, after feeling the sitter's foot all over. .. There is a fulneBI
there ; something is gone there." The latter statement is true. His father
was truly said to have had a positive mind. "Your younger sister has fair
hair; she is lively. She is studying; she stands back and puta her hands up
(making a gesture). Elocution-you call it acting." This is true; as Mr.
K. 's youngest sister is an actress and Mr. K. thought that the "standing
back," &c., applied well t~ his sister's manner in acting. Some rather vague
remarks about a picture of her were taken by the sitter to allude to the fact
that she had recently been photographed in a wig. The next sister WI\I rightly
Digitized by Google
Ce·rtnin Phenomena of T'lunce. 645
:said to be more quiet. "What has your mother done to thc housc 1 Your
father 8I\ys it is all changed round." This was accepted by tIle sitter as corre-
sponding to facts. But with this was a very large proportion of wrong or
unrecognised statements. The medium was quite unable to tell him of a
complaint from which he was suffering, even after a great deal of question-
ing and help.
70. Mr. F. W. II. Myers. Fifth sitting. Jamlart) 24th.
71. Mr. F. W. II. Myel·s. SiJlh nttillg. Jan'luu-y 25th.
In these sittings some private facts as to deceased friends were given as
to which it is practically impossible that Mrs. Piper could have acquired
any information.
72. Mr. E. M. KOII<damm. Second sitting. Janum'y 25th.
The greater part of this sitting was taken up with extensions of, and addi-
tions to, statements made at the preceding. The sitter was told rightly that
his name was Edwin, after several attempts. His surname was given as
"Kelliston"; and he was 8I\id to have no second Christian name. It should
be mentioned that his surname was not known to Mr. Myers, in whose hous8
the sitting took place. He was 8I\id to have an aunt in the spirit named
"Adda"; he has a deceased aunt named Adele. He was rightly 8I\id to
have three nephews, sons of his sisters, all boys, two of them brothers.
ABked about" Julian," Dr. P. described him correctly, and 8I\id that he had
mental trouble, of which he gave a true account, including an unusual cir-
cumstance. Mr. K. was told that he knew one Allen, a smart fellow, but
lame. This the sitter is inclined to refer to Mr. Rider Haggard's "Allan
Quatennain," whose adventures he had just been reading. This would
evidently be important if it could be verified, but unfortunately the name is
not one which can be regarded as anything but a possible means of fishing.
It is not characteristic enough to be of any value. There was less which was
quite wrong in this sitting than in the preceding.
73. Mr. II. B((bill.gfm~ BmW,. Jam~Clry 26th.
Nothing of significance occurred in this sitting with the exception of a
description of Mr. Smith's occupation, where a pretty good accollnt was
given of the portfolios in which it is his business to enter reporta in the
Education Office. This began, however, with the wrong statement, "You
have got a number of papers before you with pictures on them-pictures of
different colours. They have got to do with your life." Then the description
became correct. "Books in connexion with you ; some of them open and
some folded. Some of them with brown covers and letters on the back.
Teaching books, not school books; brownish covers, not fancy hooks.
Different sheets laid on them in different ways. They are large (here tho
lumds were held about one foot apart) ; about two or three inches thick.
There are sheets in them ; you write in them. They are not like ordinary
books. You are writing lines in them. They look white inside. There are
lines running down, figures and names and dates. }'igures down below, like
book-keeping; not exactly, but on the 8I\me lines. Not books you read
from, but instruction hooks-not to teach from, but what you note your
interest in." Asked," Interest on money 1" " No; transactions-things
Digitized by Google
64() A Recol'd of Obsermtions of
that lu'e going on," This '\\"88 followed by a quite "Tong description of the
office itHelf, and by statementa about the sitter's family of whieh only a few
common Christilm names were right,
74, M,..•, Z, Firlll sitting, JWUWT!1 27th,
75, MTs, Z. &cml<l sifting. Jillllwry 28th..
Mrs. Z.,I\ wly who WM mourning for a near relation, gave so many hint...
that Mr. Myera, in the courae of taking notes, gueHlled much more of tho
factH than Phinuit Hucceeded in giving. Phinuit, 1\8 oCCMionally happened,
seemed 80 ohstinately bent upon some elTOneOUS ideas of his own tl).'\t h"
would pRy no attention to Ml'l. Z.'s leading questions.
7G. Pm!t,,,,,.4()j· Alu(lmll'l', of RitJ de Jwu.>iI'O, JUUII((I'!I 29th.
Pluff's""I' Alexllnoel' reports as follows :-
)11'8, Piper being entrancell, toM me that I Imd seen mllny spilits and
mortals and mallY cranks; that I worked hard for truth, had travelled much,
&c. ; hut on mentioning three European countrics (France, Germany, and
Switzerland) she was right in only one. She declared that I had seen many
ups amI di,wns, and that my life had been a sad one; that I seemed t.o be
surrounded with houk". The name of my father WM correctly gil'en, as
well 1\8 that of Ellen, which belonged to a cousin of mine, and the presence
(If a spirit hrother wall announced (I have lost two brothers), My mother
(who hl\lIlIll«' l}l\HH(J(1 away) was described 1\8 an elllerly lady, and was said to
he with him, Aftcrwards she reverted to the travelling, and guessed cor-
rectly that 1 had It\tely undertaken a long Ilea voyage.
The chal'l\cteristiCl! presented by Mra. Piper in her trallce and when
recovering fl~'m it are such M I have seen in other trance mediums. There
is no douht thllt the trance is a genuine one.
The ahove guesses are, "ith the exception of the countries mentioned,
all n101'e or le8.'1 correct, They are, of course, rather vague, but that is
natum\ ill 1\ first lIitting,
A. ALBXA..
..DBR.
Fill' tilt> l'emailling sittings, from i7 on, which took place at Liv~r­
pool, sPt> PI'oft'sSOl' Lodge's reports, pp. 530-5!i5,
Digitized by Google
Oe'I'tain Phenomena. of T'f'once. 647
(4) INDEX TO ITEMS IN PARTS I. ASD II.
SPECIALLY DIFFICULT TO EXPLAIN BY DIREC'!' THOUGIIT-TRAXSFKRESC~::
i.e., BY Al;'Y AGENCY EXERTED BY TilE SITTER.
By PROFESSOR LODGE.
'{Jnless the evidence now given be held to constitute a sufficiently
strong proof that the performances of this particular "medium" are
not explicable by cunning and imposture, it is premature to examine
further iuto their significance. But as soon as it can be unreservedly
grantoo that it is allowable to dismiss this hypothesis then it seems to
me that the best plan is to dismiss it tho!'Oughly and waste no more
time over it.
F!'Om this point of view there remains the hypothesis that the
information is deri\'ed f!'Om the sitter's mind in some way or other:
e.g., (a) by question and answer; (b) by muscular and other semi-occult
a.nd unconscious signalling; (c) by direct mind-reading, or influence of
the sitter's thought, conscious 01' otherwise, acting on the entl'anced
person as percipient.. I do not propose to critically distinguish between
these three methods, although the first is very ancient, the second only
recently recognised in its full deyelopment and power, while the thinl
is ollly in process of being accepted by scientific men.
A large number of instances can be easily found which al'e not.
explicahle hy either (ct) or (b), and to all those who have hitherto-
spent any labour over the records it has become clear that either (c) or
some eyen less admissihle hypothesi'! is necessary to explain a lal'ge
portion of the results.
'Vithout assuming that this conyiction will commend itself to
everybody who may henceforth make a detailed study of the mattei',
it does seem likely that to the majority it will. And so, until
evidence to the contrary is forthcoming, I conclude that it will save
time to accept it provisionally and thus to nar!'Ow the question which
faces us to the following: Is thought-transference from the sitter, of
however free and unconscious a kind, a complete and sufficient mode of
accounting for the facts 1 Mr. Leaf definitely takes the position that,
in his opinion it is sufficient, and, considering the large amount of
laboUl' he has spent on the documents, hi'! opinion is entitled to very
great weight. For myself, I am not so convinced, but I cordially
admit the difficulty of any disproof of his position.
If one met a stranger in a railway-carriage who professed to ha\"(~
returned from the Colonies where he had met one's fl'iends or relations,
of whom he showed knowledge in some decided ways, it would not at
Digitized by Google
A Re('orcl of Observati.ons of
first occur to one to doubt his Yerncity, even though he was a litHe
hazy about the names of relatives, and occasionally mixed things up;
Jlor would you stigmatise him as a deceiver if he occasionally made
use of information supplied by yourself in course of com"ersa.tion_
But directly it was suggested that he might be a thought-reader, detail-
ing to you the uncoJlscious contents of your own mind, it would not be
easy rigorously to disprove the suggestion, especially if subsequent
.access to the friends chiefly mentioned were denied you. This is, how-
·m"er, very nearly, the problem before us.
Let it be clearly understood that the first question is whether any
reading of the mind of eluJ Bitter can be considered sufficiently effica-
~ious. That 8011Ul mind is read I should think most probable; the
question is not between mind-reading and something quite distinct; it,
is between reading the mind of the sitter and reading the mind of
someone else. There is yet another kind of mind-reading, if such it
can be called, which, though difficult to formulate and contemplate,
yet frequently suggests itself, viz., the gaining of knowledge through
some hidden community of mind, through the existence of some central
world-mind, an idealistic concept.ion not unknown in philosophy; but
it is sufficient for the present to indicate this as a possible notion and
pass on.
There are three methods of reading the mind of the sitter, labelled
above (a), (b), and (c). Method!! of extracting information from distant
persons are fewel·. Correspondence is one; telepathy may, I suppose, be
assumed to be another. The only method known to science of extrnct-
ing information from deceased persons is the discovery of documents.
Now, in respect of correspondence and documents it is comparati,"ely
eMY to be assured as to the use or non-use of these methods in any
particular case. Eliminating them, if anything is obtained inexplicable
by the agency of the sitter, it is to telepathy that we must look for a.
possible explanation. Telepathy from distant persons if that is in any
way feasible, telepathy from deceased persons only as a last resort, but
telepathy of some kind, as distinct from any conceivable method of
extrncting information from persons present: that seems to be the alter-
native hypothesis, to an examination of which we find ourselves forced
by an attentive study of the records.
Now, as Mr. Leaf says, only occasionally does the question arise;
most facts asserted are, of course, within the knowledge of the sittel·,
und none of those are of any use for the purpose of discrimination;
hut enry now and then facts, often very tl;vial but apparent.ly not
within the knowledge of the sitter, have been asserted, and haye be-an
more or less clearly verified afterwards; and ill order to assist a special
study of these data, with the view of examining how fltr they are really
,-o.lua1>le, I have made all index to them, which I append.
Digitized by Google
Certain Phe1wmena of Trctnl'e.
That the statements are made in a hazy and ill-defined manner is.
obvious on the surface. We are evidently not in a region of clear and
exact knowledge. Events are dimly perceived, and error is mixed
with truth, but we must take things as we find them. The question is,.
are any facts perceived at all, no matter how dimly, whioh could
not possibly ha\'e been known to any person present 1
Some of the following points are stronger than others, and some-
are admittedly weak. I at one time indicated against each that par-
ticular "explanation" which might with least forcing be conceived ro
apply to that particular case. In most of such hypothetical explana-
tiOll.'i "thought-transference from laps~-memory" was postulated;
information derived from some previous sitter was also a possibility
not to be ignored. Wherever both of these were obviously inappli-
cable one had to fall back upon " coincidence" or "chance" j and in
several cases not even these would do. I now decide to omit all these
gratuitous suggestions j anyone can supply them if he thinks fit, and
everyone must decide for himself, after a study of the record, what
explanation is the least unlikely and how far any explanation is really
adequate_
List qf Incidents unknoll1R to, or forgotten by, or unknowable to,
lHws0n8 present.
No. of Sittinu. Chief Sitlel·.
16 O. Lodge
36 Mrs. Lodge
37 Rendall
39 Gonner
39
"
40 O. Lodge
44
"
45 Mr. Thompson
46 O. Lodge
46
"
46
"
47
"
47
"
48
"
4!} Mrs. Lodge
78 Mr. Lund
78
"
81 Mr. Thompson
82 O. Lodge
83 Mr. TllOmpson
U.S. J. T. Clarke
C.S.
"
IIUlidt'nl. Paul'
Trouble in boy's calf of leg •.• 467
Alex. ~Iarshall hurt btlmo the knee 472
Book as keepsake ... 479
Going out of mother ... 488
Hair not cut short .., ... 489
Private affairs of "Mr. E." ... 493
Swimming the creek. .. ... 503
Lameness of rncle William •.. 510
Dress of old lady with rnclo R. ... 512
Last visit of O. L.'s father to Uncle
R. ... 514
Snako skin ... 51£)
Smith's fiold ... ... 017
Cuts in watch ... 518
Charley and the bird ... 518
Last stick of W. T. ... ... 523
Pet name "Margie" ... 53f)
Letter signed J. B. W. partially
read... ... 535
Cold in mother's ear... •.. 544
Circulllstances of Uncle F.'s school
fight
Episode of Dr. Rich
Pncle John by marriago
Rod-stamped choques in pocket
... 550
... 554
... 570
... 572
Digitized by Google
,
No. of SiUiny.
5
10
10
10
7
13
10
18
18
25
Zl
30
til
fl2
64
(,6
.A Rt'co)'cl Of Ob.~(!rv(ltiOIlS of
Chirf Sitttl'.
Mrs. Verrall
"
"
"
Miss Johnson
Oscar Browning
Prof. Sidgwick
Mr. Deronco
"
MissX.
Mr. F.
Walter Leaf
Mrs. Sidgwick
Prof. Si<lgwick
Mrs. YerraIl
Mr. Gale
Mrs. B.
Miss Johnson
Mrs. Z.
Illeidfllt.
Prescliptiun of «uinine
Carrie's infant sister
Grandfather's sister SUMn ...
Pdge
... &84,
... 587
... 588
Name George for brother of uncle's
firat wife ... ... 589
Blister on brother's great toe 610
Nephew in Philadelphia ... 626
Ml'II. S., with sometliing on head,
talking to lady ... 627
Mother lying on sofa ..• 628
Brother }lI\inting a profilc ... 628
Infant brother William ... 630
Uncle William •.• 631
Two Hurney lettcrs ... ... 633
Prof. S. sitting with his feet up ... 6U
Mrs. S. reclining with cloth moer
head and chest •.. 641
Dr. Y. reading at desk and stopping
to talk to visitur ... .., 642
Temporary lameness of grandfather 643
Mrs. Ven'l\U luuking in glaBS globe.
her daughter with her... ... &&4
Brother reading with feet ttl) in
conler room ... 644
Ex cOIIt1Y1I·ia... ... 646
Digitized by Google
Ce1'tain Plwnomen(t of TI'wtce. 651
(5) PART III.
By PROFESSOR \VILLI.O\lI JA1IES.
DEAR MR. ~IYERS,
You· ask for a record of my own experiences with }\[rs.
Piper, to be incorporated in the account of her to be published in your
Proceedings. I regret to be unable to furnish you with any direct
notes of sittings beyond those which Mr. Hodgson wiII have ah,(,MY
supplied. I admit that in not having taken more notes I was most
derelict, and can only cry jJeccavi. The excuse (if it be one) for my
negligence was that I wished primarily to satisfy myself about Mrs.
Piper; and feeling that as evidence for others no notes but steno-
gl'llphic notes would have value, and not being able to get these, I
seldom took any. I stilI think that as far as influencing public opinion
goes, the bare fact that So-and-so and So-and-so have been convinced by
their personal experience that "there is something in mediumship" is
the essential thing. Public opinion follows leaders much more than it
follows evidence. Professor Huxley's bal'e" endorsement" of MI'S
Piper, e,g., would be more effective than volumes of notes by such as I
Practically, however, I ought to have taken them, and the sight of you!"
mOJ'e scientific methods makes me doubly rue my sins.
Under the circumstances, the only thing I can do is to give you
Illy present state of belief as to Mrs. Piper's powel'S, with a simple
nccount from memory of the steps which have led me to it.
I made Mrs. Piper's acquaintance in the autumn of 1885. }\[y
wife's mother, Mrs. Gibbens, had been told of hel' by a f!"iend, during
the previous summe!", and never having seen a medium before, had
paid he!" a visit out of curiosity. She l'etu1'lled with the statement
that )Irs. P. had given her a long string of names of mcmbe!"s of the
family, mostly Christian names, together with facts ahout the pel'SOns
mentioned and their relations to each other, the knowledge of which
on her part was incomprehensible without supernol"DJaI powel'S. My
Rister-in-law went the next day, with stilI better I'esults, as she related
them. Amongst other things, the medium had accUl'lltely described
the circumstances of the writer of a letter which she held against her
forehead, after :lEss G. had given it to her. The lette!" was in Italian,
and its writer was known to but two persons in this country.
[1 may add that on a later occasion my wife I1mI I took another
letter from thi..1 sarn3 person to M!"8. P., who went on to speak of him
in a way which identifier! him unmistakably again. On a third
~)ccasion, two years later, my sister-in-law amI I being again with Mrs.
Digitized by Google
652 A Rtcord of ObHel"Vcdions of
P., she l-e,·el·ted in her trance to these letters, and then ga\'e us the
writer's name, which she said she had not been able to get on the
former occasion.]
But to revert to the beginning. I remember playing the upm fort
on that occasion before my feminine relatives, and seeking to explain
by simple considerations the marvellous character of the facts which
they brought back. This did not, however, prevent me from going
myself a few days later, in company with my wife, to get a direct.
personal impression. The names of none of us up to this meeting had
been announced to l\Irs. P., and l\Irs. J. and I were, of course, careful
to make no reference to our relatives who had preceded. The medium,
howe"er, when entranced, repeated most of the names of "spirits "
whom she had announced on the two former occasions and added others.
The names came with difficulty, and were only gradually made perfect_
My wife's father's name of Gibbens was announced first as Niblin, then
as Giblin. A child Herman (whom we had lost the previous year) bad
his name spelt out as Herrin. I think that in no case were both
Christian and SUl"llames given on this visit. But thefilCt.s lJredicateci of
the pel'sons named marle it in many instances impossible not to l"eCognise
the particular individuals who were talked about. 'Ve took particular
pains on this occasion to give the Phinuit control no help over his
difficulties and to ask no leu.ding questions. In the light of subsequent.
experience I believe this not to be the best lJOlicy. For it often happens,
if you give this trance-personu.ge a name or some small fact for the lack
of which he is brought to a standstill, that he will then start off with a.
copious flow of additional talk, containing in itself an abundance of
" tests."
My impression after this first visit was, that l\Irs. P. was either
posse&'1ed of supernormal powers, or knew the members of my wife's
flLmily by sight and had by some lucky coincidence become acquainted
with such a multitude of their domestic circumstances as to produce
the startling impression which she did. l\Iy lu.ter knowledge of her
sittings and pel"SOnal acquaintance with her has led me absolutely to
r~ject the latter explanation, and to believe that she has supernormal
powers.
I yisited her 1\ dozen times that winter, sometimes alone, sometime...
with my wife, once in company with the Rey. 1\1. J. Savage. I sent u.
large number of persons to her, wishing to get the results of as many
first sittings as possible. I made appointments myself for most of these
people, whose names were in no instance announced to the medium. 111
the lipring of 1886 I published a brief" Report of the Committee on
Mediumistic Phenomena" in the Proceedings of the American Society
for Pliychical Research, of which the following i.. an extract :-
" I have myself witnessed a dozen of her trances, and have testimony at
Digitized by Google
Oertain PhenO'lnena of Trance. 653
first hand from 25 sitters, all but one of whom were virtually introduced
to Mrs. P. by myself.1 Of five of the sittings we have rerbatim steno-
graphic reports. Twelve of the sitters, who in most cases sat singly, got no-
thing from the mediwn but unknown names or trivial talk. Four of these
were members of the Society, and of their sittings verbatim reports were
tsken. Fifteen of the sitters were surprised at the communications they
received, names and facts being mentioned at the first interview which it;
seemed improbable should have been known to the medium ina normal way.
The probability that she possessed no clue as to the sitter's identity was, I
believe, in each and all of these 15 cases, sufficient. But of only one of
them is there a stenographic report j so that, unfortW1&tely for the medium,
the evidence in her favour is, although more abundant, less exact in quality
than some of that which will be counted against her. Of these 15
sitters, five, all ladies, were blood relatives, and two (1 myself being one)
were men connected by marriage with the family to which they belonged.
Two other connections of this family are included in the 12 who got
nothing. The medium showed a most startling intimacy with this family's
affairs, talking of many matters known to no one outside, and which gossip
could not poBSibly have conveyed to her ears. The details would prove
nothing to the reader, unleBS printed in extenso, with full notes by the
sitters. It reverts, after all, to persoo."\l conviction. My own conviction is
not evidence, but it seems fitting to record it. 1 am persuaded of the
medium's honesty, and of the genuineness of her trance; and although at
first disposed to think that the 'hits' she made were either lucky coinci-
dences, or the result of knowledge on her part of who the sitter was and of
his or her fauwy affairs, 1 now believe her to be in pOBBeBSion of a power as
yet unexplained."
I also made during this winter an attempt to see whether Mrs.
Piper's medium-trance had any community of nature with ordinary
hypnotic trance. I wrote in the report:-
" My first two attempts to hypnotise her were unsucc8BBful. Between
the second time und the third, 1 suggested to her 'control' in the medium-
trance that he should make her a mesmeric subject for me. He agreed. (A
suggestion of this BOrt made by the operator in one hYPlwtic trance would
probably have some effect on the next.) She became partially hypnotised
on the third trial; but the effect was 80 slight that 1 ascribe it rather to the
effect of repetition than to the suggestion made. By the fifth trial she had
become a pretty good hypnotic subject, as far as muscular phenomena and
automatic imitatioD.'I of speech and gesture go; but 1 could not affect her
cOllSciousneBS, or otherwise get her beyond this point. Her condition in this
semi-hypnosis is very different from her medium-trance. The latter is
characterised by great muscular unrest, even her ears moving vigorously in a.
way impoBSible to her in her waking st."\te. But in hypno.~is her muscular
relaxation and weakness are extreme. She often makes several efforts to speak
I I tried then, and have tried since, to get written accounts from these Klttf>rs, in
mo~t cast's in vain. The ftlW written statements which I have got are ill Mr.
HodgllOll'. hand~, and will doubtless be sent you with the rest of the material whidl
he will submit.
2 y
Digitized by Google
A Record of Ob"c/'/'utimll1 uf
ere her voice become!! audible; and to get 1\ !!trong contmction of the hand,
for example, expreKS manipulation and suggestion must be practised. The
autumatic imitations I spoke of are in the first instance very weak, and only
hecllllle Ktrong after repetition. Hcr pupil>! contrnct in the medium-trance.
HuggcfltionM to the 'control' thnt he should make her recollect after the
medium-tnmce what she hnd been saying were accepted, but had no result.
[ II the hypnotic-trance such a KuggeNtion will often make the patient
rcmemher all that has happened.
" No Kign of thought-transference-M tested hy carll and diagram guess-
ing-hM been found in her, either in the hypnotic conditiun just described,
411" iUlIllediawly after it ; although her' control' in the medium-trance has
"aid thnt he would bring them I\bout. So far I\~ tried (only twice), no right
gueAAing ofcard!! in the medium-tmnce, XII clenr signs of thought-transfer-
ence, M teNted hy the Imming uf cards, during the waking state. Trials of
the 'willing game,' and attempts at automatic writing, gave similarly
negath-e results. So far aM the evidence gues, then, her medium-trance
seems an isolated feature in her psychulogy. This would of itself be an im-
Jlurtnnt result if it could he established aud generalised, but the recorll is
ohviously too imperfect fur confident concluRioml to be dn\wn from it in any
direction."
Hel"e I dl'opped my in<}uil'ies int.. ~[rs. Piper's mediulllship for a
llel'i"d of about two years, having blltistied myself that there was a
genuine mystel'y there, but heing o\"et'-fl'eighted with time-eonsuming
duties, and feeling that I\lIy ade1luate cil'cumnavigatioll of tht'
phenomeull would be too pt'Otmctella task fOl' me to aspire just then
til uJl(leltake. I saw hel" Ollce, half-nccidentnlly, however, during that
interval, amI ill the spring of l~tl9 saw her foul' times agl1in. III the
fall of 1~89 she paid us a visit of n week at. our C()Wltry house ill New
Halllpshire, I1nd I then le:trned to know her personally better t.han e,"cr
hefol..., and had confil1nell in me the helief that she is an absolutely
simple nnd genuine pel'Son. No IIIH', when challenged, can gi"e
" evidence" to others fOl' such beliefs IlS this. Yet we all Ii'"e by them
fl'om day to day, I1nd pmctically I should he willing now to stake Il,<;
much money on M1"!I. Pipet"s honesty 11" on that of anyone I know,
JL(l(lam quite satisfied to le:t\"e my l'eputntion fOI' wisdom or folly, so
fill' 1l,'I human Imture is concerned, to sbmd 01" fIlII by this dec1arntion.
As fOI" the explanation of hel' tl'l1nce-phenomel1lt., I hl1\-e none to
offer. The l!1'ill!(~ .fa.de theory, which is that of spirit-control, is hal'll
to reconcile with the extl't'me triviality of most of the communications.
What real spil'it, at Illst able tn I'fwisit his wife on this earth, but
would find something bettel' to say than that she had changed the place
of his photogl'llph 1 And yet that is the SOI·t of remark to which the
spirits introduced by the mysterious Phinuit I\re apt to confine them-
selyes. I must admit, however, thl1t Phinuit has other moods. He
h,lS several times, when my wife and myself weloe sitting together with
him, suddenly started off on long lel'tures to Us about our inward defects
Digitized by Google
655
;\luI outward shortcomings, which were "el'y earnest, as well as subtile
morally and psychologically, and impressh'e in a high degree, These
discourses, though gi"en ill Phinuit's'own person, were very diffel'ent
in style from his more usual tnlk, and probably superior to a.nything
that the medium could produce ill the same line in her natural state.
Phinuit himself, however, bears e,'ery appeal'ance of being a fictitious
being, His French, so far as he hus been able to display it to me, ha.~
baen limited to a few phrases of salutation, which may easily have
had their rise in the medium's" unconscious" memory; he hus never
been able to understand my French; and the crumbs of information
which he gives about his earthly career nre, as you know, so few, vague,
and unlikely sounding, as to suggest the l'omancing of olle whose stock
of ma.terials for invention is exceslSively reduced. He is, however, as he
.actually shows himself, a definite human individual, with immense tact
and pntience, and great desire to plen..'le and be regarded as inflillible.
'With l'elSpect to the rough nud slangy style which he so often affects,
it should be said that the Spiritualistic tradition here in America is nil
in fnvour of the" spirit-contl'OI" being Ii grotesque and somewhat saucy
pan;onage. The Zeit!leidt has n.lwnys much to do with shaping trance-
phenomena, so that II. "control" uf that temperament is what one would
naturally expect. ~Ir. Hodgson will already have informed you of the
similltlity between Phinuit's name and that of the" control" of the
mediulll at whose house }\f1'S. Piper was first entranced. The most
remllrkable thing about the Phinuit personality seems to me the extm-
ordinary tenacity and minuteness of his memory. The medium has
been visited by many hundreds of sittel'S, half of them, perhaps, being
strangers who have come but once. To each Phiuuit gives an hour-
ful of disconnected fmgmentl:! of talk ahout pen;ons living, dead, 01'
imaginary, and events past, future, or unreal. What nonnal waking
memory could keep this chaotic muss of stuff together 1 Yet Phiuuit
does so; for the chances seem to lie, that if a sitter should go back aftel'
years of interval, the mediulll, when once entranced, would recall the
minutest incidents of the p-arlier interview, and begin by recapituhlting
much of whn.t had then been said. So far as I can discover, :\11'l1.
Piper's WIlking memory is not l'emarkable, and the whole constitution
of her trance·memory is something which I am at a loss to undel'Stand.
But I will say nothing more of Phinuit, because, aided by our fliends ill
France, you are already systematically seeking to establish or disprove
him n..~ a fonner native of this world.
Phinuit is generally the medium of communication between other
spilits and the sitter. But two other sQi-disant spirits have, in my Pl'e-
,;ence, assumed dil'ect "control" of :Mrs. Piper. One purported to be the
late }\fr. E. The other was an aunt of mine who died last yenr in
New York. I have already sent you the only account I can give of
2 y 2
Digitized by Google
656 A Record of Observations of
my earliest experiences with the "E. control." The first. messages.
came through Phinuit, about a. year ago, when after two years of non-
intercourse with Mrs. Piper, she lunched one day at our house and
gave my wife and myself a sitting afterwards. It was bad enough;
and I confess that the human being in me was so much stronger than
the man of science that I was too disgusted with Phinuit's tiresome
twaddle even to note it down. \Vhen later the phenomenon developed
into pretended. direct speech from E. himself I regretted this, for a.
complete record would have been useful. I ean now merely say that
neither then, nor at any other time, was there to my mind the slightest
inner verisimilitude in the personation. But the failure to produce I\"
more plausible E. speaks directly in favour of the non-participation
of the medium's conscious mind in the performance. She could so easily
have coached herself to be more effective.
Her trance-talk about my own family shows the same innocenc(>_
The sceptical theory of her successes is that she keeps a sort of detec-
tive bureau open upon· the world at large, so that whoeyer may call is
pretty sure to find her prepared with facts about his life. Few things.
could have been easier, in Boston, than for lfrs. Piper to collect facts.
about my own father's family for use in my sittings with her. But
although my father, my mother, and a deceased brother were repeatedly
announced as present, nothing but their bare names ever came out.
except a. hearty message of thanks from my father that I had "pub-
lished the book." I Turd published hi'! Literary Remains,. but when
Phinuit was a'!ke:i "what book 1" all he could do was to spell the
letters L, I, and say no more. If it be suggested that all this was but
a refinem:mt of cunning, for that such skilfully distributell reticence....
are what bring most cI'edit in to a. medium, I must deny the proposition
in toto. I have seen amI heard enough of sittings to be sure tha.t Il.
medium's trump cards are promptitude and completeness in hel-
revelations. It is a mistake in general (however it may occasionally.
as now, be cited in her flt"our) to keep back anything she knows.
Phinuit's stumbling, spelling, and otherwise imperfect ways of bringing
out his facts is a great drawba.ck with most sittel"S, and yet it is habitual
with hint.
The aunt who purported to "take control" directly was a much
better personation, haying a good deal of the cheery strenuousness of
speech of the original. She spoke, by the way, on this occasion, of the
condition of health of two members of the family in New York, of
which we knew nothing at the time, and which was afterwards cor-
r..lborated by letter. 'Ye have repeatedly he:u'd from MI"S. Piper in
trance things of which we wel'e not ut the moment aware. If the
supernormal element in the phenomenon be thought-transference it is
cf.ll'tainly not that of the sitter's cOliSCioU8 thuught, It is rather the
Digitized by Google
Cel-tccin Phenomena of Trance. 657
reservoir of his potential knowledge which is tapped; and not always
t}U/,t, but the knowledge of some distant living person, as in the
incident last quoted. It has sometimes even seemed to me that too
much intentness on the sitter's part to have Phinuit say a certain thing
acts as a hindrance.
Mrs. Blodgett, of Holyoke, Mass., and her sister, devised, before
the latter died, what would have been a good test of actual spirit-
return. The sister, Miss H. W., wrote upon her deathLed a letter,
~ealed it, and gave it to Mrs. B. After her death no one living
knew what words it contained. Mrs. B. not then knowing Mrs. Piper,
-entrusted to me the sealed letter, and asked me to give Mrs. Piper some
articles of the deceased sister's personal apparel, to help her to get at
its contents. This commission I performed. Mrs. P. gave correctly
the full name (which even I did not know) of the writer, and finally,
after a delay and ceremony which occupied several weeks on Phinuit's
part, dictated what purported to be a copy of the letter. This I
-compared with the original (of which Mrs. B. permitted me to break
the seal); but the two letters had nothing in common, nor were
any of the numerous domestic facts alluded to in the medium's letter
acknowledged by Mrs. Blodgett to be correct. Mrs. Piper was equally
unsuccessful in two later attempts which she made to reproduce the
contents of this document, although both times the revelation purport€d
to come direct from it.'i deceased writer. It would be hard to devise a
better test than this would have been, had it immediately succeeded, for
the exclusion of thought-trallSference from living minds.
My mother-in-law, on her return from Europe, spent a morning
vainly seeking for her bank-book. 1\Jrs. Piper, on being shortly after-
wards asked where this book was, described the place so exactly that it
was illStantly found. I was told by her that the spirit of a boy named
Robert F. was the companion of my lost infant. The F.'s were
<:ousins of my wife living in a distant city. On my return home I
mentioned the incident to my wife, saying, "Your cousin did lose a.
baby, didn't she 1 but Mrs. Piper was wrong about its sex, name, and
age. " I then learned that Mrs. Piper had been quite right in a.U
those particulars, and that mine was the wrong impression. But,
obviously, for the source of revelatiollS such as these, one need not go
behind the sitter's own storehouse of forgotten or unnoticed experi-
ences. Miss X.'s experiments in crystal-gazing prove how strangely
these survive. If thought-trallSference be the clue to be followed
in interpreting Mrs. Piper's trance-utterances (and that, as far as my
experience goes, is what, far more than any supramundane illStillations,
the phenomena. Beem on their face to be) we must admit that the
4' trallSference" need not be of the conscious or even the unconscious
thought of the sitter, but must often be of the thought of some person
Digitized by Google
..,58 A RrCOl'd of Obl<('/'!'((l iOllR of
far IIway. TIm", on my mothe\'-in-lnw's st'cOIlIl ,-isit to the mediUlIJ
I'he Wlt.."l told that one of her daughte\'s was suffe\'ing from a se\'el"t"
pain in her hack on that day, This altogethel' unusual occurt'enc(>,
unknown to the sitter, proved to he true. The announcement w my
wife and lJl"Other of my aunt's denth in New York before we had
received the telt'grnm (Mr, Hodgson has, I helieye, sent you an account
of this) may, on the other hand, have heen occasioned by the sittRr!.:
conscious apprehen!'ion of the event. This particular incident is a
" tt'st .. of the sort which one relldily (Iuotes; hut to my mind it WIt..
..
far It's!! convincing than the innumerahle small domestic matters of
which Mrs, Piper incessantly talked in her sittings with members of
my family, With the affairs of my wife's maternal kinsfolk in
pU'ticular her acquaintance in trance was most intimate. Some of
them were dead, some in California, some in the State of Maine, Sh~
characterised them all, living as well as deceased, spoke of their
relations to each other, of their like.'! and dislikes, of their as ~-et
unpuhlished practica.l plans, and hardly evel' made a mistake, though,
I\S usual, there was very little system 01' continuity in anything that
came out, A normal person, unacquainted with the family, could not
possihly have said as much; one acquaintell with it could hardly rune
avoided saying more.
The most cOIl\-incing things said ahout my own immediate hou;,(>-
hold were either very intimate 01' very trivial. U ruortunately th",
f011l1er things cannot well be published. Of the trivial things, I hnn-
forgotten the gl'eater number, but the following, ,'al're nantes, may sern.
itS samples of their class: She 81tid that we had lost recently a rug,
and I a waistcoat. [She wrongly accused IL person of stealing the rug.
which was afterwards found in the house.] She told of my killing It
gl'ey-and-white cat, with ether, and descI'ihed how it had "spun round
allfll"Oullll" bt'fore dying. She told how my New YOl'k aunt had written
1\ lett{,I' to my wife, warning her ngainst all mediums, and then went (Iff
(In a lUost amusing criticism, full of tmils t'ifs, (If the excellent woma.n's
cll/tmcter. [Of course no one but my wife and I knew the existence of
the lettel' in question.] She was strong 011 the events in our nursery,
und gave striking advice during our first visit to her about the way tu
deal with certain" tantrums" of our second child, "little Billy-boy," as
she culled him, reproducing his nUl'sery lIame. She wId how the crih
creaked at night, how a certain rocking-chair creaked mysteriously, how
111)' wife had heard footsteps on the stairs, &c" &c, Insignificant as.
these things sound when read, the accumulation of a large number (If
them has an il'resistible effect. And I repeat again what I said befot'\',
that, taking everything that I know of Mrs, p, into account, the result
is tt) make me feel as absolutely certain as I am of any personal fact in
tIl{' WUl'ld that she knows things in hel' tmnces which she cannot possihly
Digitized by Goo~
Oerta in Phetlonu'na of Trance. {j5~
have heard in her waking state, and that the definitive philosophy of
her trances is yet to be found. The limitations of her trance-informa-
tion, its discontinuity and fitfulness, and its apparent inability to
develop beyond a certain point, although they end by rousing one's
moral and human impatience with the phenomenon, yet are, from a
scientific point of view, amongst its most interesting peculiarities, sincE'
where there are limits there are conditions, and the discovery of these
is always the beginning of explanation.
This is all that I can tell you of :Mrs. Piper. I wish it were more
" scientific." But, mJeat quantum! it is the best I can do,
Digitized by Google
