{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ron_k_nde_32286.html","mytitle":"Ron K NDE 32286","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ron K NDE 32286  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ron K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3600 Ron K NDE 32286  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Before I went over, I said, 'Get a doctor.'  The blood was flowing pretty freely. They said it won't help. I said some goodbyes in effect then again said, 'Get a doctor, I need to save my blood.' Then I went unconscious. They told me I did literally just stop right after making the statement.

I was young. My Mom was several thousand miles away and, I ran in spirit to her. She told me years later I was there as a blue light, about 5' above floor, and she knew it was me.  She realized immediately that I must have died. She said I followed her around her home.

I recall following her. I could hear her words, she could get my meanings well. I said my goodbyes to her.

My experience was leaving the planet. I was very aware I was in space. I headed to the brightest area, where it all flows from. Getting closer, a group came out quickly and as I past them they called me and said they had a message.

We talked for a long time, then I was asked to go back. I did not want to go back and it was understood by all that I did not have to. One of them identified himself as a friend of one of the person who had rescued me and was in room when I went over. A woman assured me that if I went back, I would have three children...the list of things to do did not matter so much to me, but the kids did.  So, I went back.

I recall looking over the body where it lay and saw those around in room. It was awful going back into the body..rotten worm filled thing.... I guess I am used to it again.

All the people I talked to were as transparent/3D Outline of naked selves in bluish/white light. Their facial features were very distinguishable.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 1982

  NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I left it.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      No sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   All were real-time events. This is saying nothing of perceptual abilities to access vents in other time/space.  Only that my experience had a very clear timeline of successive events, culminating in waking up in an oxygen tent.

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     They were bluish/white 3D transparent outlined, facial features and individual body shapes very recognizable as such...in an energy outline form.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    details of conversation are confidential

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     we belong same fraternity

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was probably the center of the Galaxy of Universe. Definitely in Space. Without question, in space. Any person reporting tunnel is probably fixating on light and not looking around and taking in details of the fact that you are in space.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       You can tell everything, same as here.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I introduced the word Ethos to my fraternity.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    None   Sunday school 2 times as a child, common judeo christion knowledge, no fundamentalist core precepts at time.

What is your religion now?       No Response   I do not have a name for it. I see no separation between here and there..it all just is. Spirit matter appears to be the most lasting. Ist that a philosophy or a religion..probably neither.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Looking back, I did, but not thtI put into words or thought in words to self. I studied physics, and lived differently. I had a diet change..I craved fresh foods, raw foods, nuts, and dont like mea tmuch at all anymore...even though I grew up on a cattle ranch...  And, as said prior..I was immortal, bullet proof.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Absolutely

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Absolutely  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was immortal, such that no bullet would stop me.  I was assured of certain things. I had a job to do, and it was important. I have lived since with a strong sense of purpose. It was clear that a great being existed, all the group understood that and so did I. From what I understand, if you vibe/relate at a higher level, you can go there and stay, if not, you reincarnate.  I did not have to come back, I chose to.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Believed it probably could happen

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Absolutely

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Not fearful

Do you fear death after your experience?       Very fearful  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Prior abilities in abundance...tempered after experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There was a lot of bad happened. The good part...I got to know, I had some promises and a purpose.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    shared with the doctor, then in more detail with a Friend.  I am only now looking at the entire experience analytically. I returned to location, so I could fully process it now that it is safe to do so.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My friend confirming he had known the person I referred to as having spoke with. Several events that have occurred since. The existence of my 3 children, ages 20, 22, 25.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   In my experience, there is no separation.  The only separation is in our heads...  in reality there is no this side/that side..it all just is. Spirits move freely.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I mention it as there are some obvious data points to make note of. Clearly, a fear of death is a bad thing, as is a lack of respect for life. I see that due to a lack of knowledge, most people are being motivated by a fear of pain and death.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ron_k_nde_32286.html