{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ron_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Ron A NDE 916","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ron A NDE 916  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ron A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						383  Ron A NDE  916  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Ron's NDE and Abduction experience happened about 8 months apart between the ages of 4-5 The UFO came 1st, the NDE came 2nd.


The NDE


The first thing I remember is that I was floating above the deep end of the swimming pool (not in the pool) we had at our home. It was morning, about ten or eleven. I was almost 5 years old.   I was just floating, thinking how placid, quiet, and beautiful the pool area was. I was not aware of what just happened. Moments later two angels came and led me away, one on each arm. I was startled at first, but they felt very safe and secure and I felt no fear.


They led me up into a bright cloud (it was just like driving or flying through a cloud, if you ever done that) and there was no sound or wind. The whole trip seemed like ten seconds. When we emerged from the cloud, I could see five people standing in the distance. As we moved closer I could see more clearly who it was, it was my family that lived in heaven, they were all very happy to see me again and there was one man I did not know, so I greeted them from left to right. It was like a family reunion at Christmas time, but much better.


We communicated by thinking what we wanted to say. The love they had for me was tremendous, and then I greeted the man on the right. I did not recognize he was very awe inspiring, with great, great powers, when I stood before him. I thought to myself, wow, what an incredible energy he emits. When I stood before him, he just loved me as the others. He asked me if I wanted to stay with them and I said yes, realizing that nothing on earth was worth going back for. It was the greatest feeling to be with them, pure love.


I believed this was God, our creator of the universe, highest power (whatever word you feel comfortable with.) As looked around I saw a bright light.  It was the moon; the sun was reflecting light off the moon surface.  We were in space, equal distance to the moon on the right side (looking from earth). I do not think this was heaven's final destination. I think it was a greeting area to receive us when we cross over.


Next, he showed me my life review, every second from birth until death you will see, feel, and experience your emotions and others that you hurt, and feel their pain and emotions. What this is for is so you can see what kind of person you were and how you treated others from another vantage point, and you will be harder on yourself than anyone to judge you. Next, he (God) gave me knowledge of "anything" I wanted to know. You just think the question to get the answer, and you can view it as it happened - anything you want! I learned tens of thousands of things, the information came like a flood, yet I could process every second of information in detail.


Then he told me that it was not my time and I must go back. Two angels took me back. As I'm leaving, I'm loosing the information I learned. I'm desperately trying to remember it and hang on to the information. The next thing I know I'm back over the pool. It is still very peaceful and calm.  Then I see my father, very frantic, run straight to the pool, dive in the deep end, and pull someone out. People started to gather (siblings). I heard my sister Sylvia say: Ron's dead. I was next to her and said: No, I'm not, I'm right here. I reached out to touch her on the back and my hand went right through her.


Just then, my father turned me over on my stomach and pressed on my back very hard. The next thing I saw was that I opened my eyes and lots of water was coming out of my mouth, and I was in a lot of pain that quickly went away. I knew if God sent me back that I would have no long term damage. About five minutes later ambulance drivers came and asked me if I was ok, I said yes and they left without doing anything. I always thought that was the funny part, little did they know what I went through.


PS. Yes, I did recall some knowledge; here are some for you to think about. God himself acknowledges that yes, UFO do co-exist with us and are not to be feared - HIS words. Man has space traveled before the 1960´ies, approximately 10.000 years ago. We did not build spaceships like we do today, we were picked up by UFO´s willingly - we would go to a pick up point, a large hill overlooking a vast plain, there were images marked on the ground to be read from the sky. There "is" other life, beings, not microbes. They reside outside our solar system and into the next. Being in their spacecraft, you are not subject to G forces, gravity or other limitations that ours are subject to. They can travel great distances in seconds; they can make their spaceships invisible at will. Secondly... Time travel is possible. I was shown a blueprint, I asked what it is, and he (God) said: It is for time travel. Thirdly...In the past, man has been wiped out from the earth, forced to learn everything again, and repopulate the earth. Man has achieved very high knowledge about space travel, science and mathematics, much more than we know today.


My UFO encounter


One night about 2 am, I was around 4 years old, four Aliens entered my bedroom, took me from my bed and floated me through the wall of the house outside in my back yard, where I could see their space ship overhead. I lived in my grandfather's 2 story house, and the ship was about 10 feet above the roof line of our house, so about 26 feet of the ground.


When they took me up to their ship, I could see the top of the roof of our house and I saw a toy on the roof someone tossed up there. Their ship had lights outside rotating in a back and forth motion around the ship. It was about 40 feet across with no sound. The lighting lit up the homes next to us. I thought maybe someone might see the light and see me and what's happening.


Then we entered the ship from a door that dropped down from the bottom creating a ramp. When I saw inside, in the center of the ship there was a round room with a dome in the floor. I think this was the ships power source. The inside was very strange, it had no seams (where things started and stopped) walls to the floor, table to the floor. The ship was one big piece, like molded plastic, except for the door we came in.


They took me in the room on the left where there was a table rectangle, like an operating table. They placed me on the table. I was extremely frightened, but I had no power to fight back. They had control over me and they knew everything I was thinking, so if I wanted to lift my arm to strike them I must first think it before I do it and that tipped them off to what movements I was going to make. They were very interested in my pelvis area and I feel they surgically entered that area. Since I was laying down I could not watch what they did, but it did not leave a scar or mark. Next, they came around my head.  Their faces really scared me. They would be considered GREYS with very skinny bodies, no muscle definition, large heads, two holes for a nose, a tiny slit for a mouth and big solid black eyes 3 inches across, height about 3 foot 6 in.


Then one took a long probe and inserted it into my left nostril, into my head, until I heard a crunch sound. I felt no pain at all, just pressure from them pushing the probe. Then they took me out, where I could see the other houses lit up from the lights, but I did not see any one looking at us.


They took me back to my bed and left. I didn't feel any different and was not about to tell my mother what just happened, because she would never believe it and I would be in trouble for making up a story. The next day I got up to see if anyone was talking about the space ship, but no one had seen it. For a year or two I had severe nose bleeds that just started for no reason, my mother just thought I was picking my nose.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1965

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident     good

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      1-10    10

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    musical tone

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     brite clouds

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     2 angels, 4 family, 1 very loving powerful man I believe was god the creator of all.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   when we arrived the light was coming from the surface of the moon we were very close to it. The sun was reflecting light off the moon

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     during my knowledge experence I seen many places an alternate earth out of our solar system and in to the next one, with man living their in complete peace and harmony the structures were red and green glass like or ruby like.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      love\ times a million

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     we are not randomly going through life willy nilly historical events will take place when planned, wars will start people will die or be killed to meet an end result. some people can see into the future to see what is to be, we need only pay attention. Their are sleepers ordinary people that will activate by getting a burning desire to see something through and do something they would never think of doing on their own.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned tens of thousands of things I viewed them as they happened through a tv like viewer.  you can learn anything you want you must just think the question to see it as it happened, the end of the world, any wars, plagues the birth of christ any thing you can think of. my life review was viewed the same way.  one important thing that I will always rember after my life review is that  (every thing you thought that mattered doesnt and the only thing that does matter is how you treat other people).

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     yes and past events.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   yes I was told I had to go back It was not my time and I had something to do.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     listen to your heart and do what is right!

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     when I came back I felt bullet proof not afraid to die because I knew I was protected by god and he was watching over me so I can complete what I am here to do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       best knowledge and my greeting. worst being sent back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    very positive always.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Ask what knowledge you came back with that man can use, or message god gave you to share with mankind.  what senses did you have? sight, hearing, enhanced comprension,enhanced memory,feel love, feel pain mental. God did not judge me, I did and thats worse he is standing their watching your life review with you watching all you did good and bad and if you did something mean you felt the torment and pain that you gave to the other person by your act.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ron_a_nde.html