{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ron_j_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Ron J Possible NDE 7881","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ron J Possible NDE 7881  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ron J Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4080 Ron J Possible NDE 7881  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was born, I was not breathing due to a lack of amniotic fluid in my mother.  I died shortly after I was born. Of course, this has all been told to me, as I do not remember being born.  But I do remember what it was like to be dead.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/14/00

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.           Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   My mother didn't have any amniotic fluid during the time of my birth.  When I was born, I was not breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It made me incredibly excited to feel the way I did, without need and without existing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I was floating through a timeless void of absolute everything

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time wasn't relevant to anything that happened.  It seemed like time didn't exist

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The vision was through my mind, not any sort of ocular organ. Everything I saw was going exceptionally quick.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sounds were unlike any earthly sounds, but I can't entirely remember what the sounds were.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Don't entirely remember the tunnel but I think it was there.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Many lights like stars, some were different colors

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It wasn't a place, but it felt like I was headed somewhere

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation, excitement

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I still remember the feeling of this and it is hard to attain but it is the best feeling in the world

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I remember them in dreams and they do come true, although there is no way to prove it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   I was a baby and had no knowledge of religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Once I remembered my experience, my views changed

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had no beliefs at the time

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Once I remembered my experience, my beliefs changed.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Everything felt connected and I could understand everything

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There was no evidence of god or a supreme being at all.  God does not exist.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I seemed to know and understand everything

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Earthly life's purpose is to do what each person is able.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     Yes     I was continuing to exist after I had died.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I loved the feeling of the experience and the experience loved me

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to describe the feeling of death.  The closest meaning I guess could be 'enlightenment.'

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    This is my first memory.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see my future

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was the best feeling

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I didn't know what happened

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     The feeling I remember from it can't be conjured from my imagination

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have done it a few times

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask if there is any part, you think you have forgotten or have not yet remembered      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ron_j_possible_nde.html