{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roger_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Roger F NDE 4667","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roger F NDE 4667  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roger F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2364 Roger F NDE 4667  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Listening to music in my living room. Children asleep in their beds. Distant pain in my chest. Pain grew steadily stronger. Unbearable. Suddenly 'knew' that I was about to die. Remember moaning 'Oh, no,' as I thought of my children. Then a sudden 'release' of all pain and any sense of having a body. A feeling of comfort and joy was immediate with the feeling of being 'welcomed' Home.

It was I, and yet, I was everyone else at the same time. I knew instantly where I was and understood that this reality (Home) was where I had come from and had now returned. There came sensations of boundless love and boundless understanding. I was everywhere and everything in the universe, yet I was somewhere in particular (everywhere IS somewhere). The present, the past, and the future (all sense of time as we understand time) was combined into something I call, 'the Eternal Now'. In that eternal instant, a wave of love seemed to wash through me. Then came the Light. I was in it, part of it, and I understood it completely.

The next sensation was of returning back into my body. I didn't want to leave Home. I would have stayed there if I could. Then I brushed a tear from my cheek and realized that I was in my living room - smiling.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'September 28, 1978'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Other: 1st Heart Attack (first of 5)  Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Sense of expanded consciousness was immediate. Full expansion and understanding followed within an eternal instant.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time, as we understand time, does not exist at Home. All is in the Eternal Now.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It wasn't what I saw - but rather all that I became. I was part of every atom in the universe.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing is a sense associated with the physical. The experience was metaphysical.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I became as one with all souls - even with those souls inhabiting the physical world.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I entered and became as one with the Light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was EVERYWHERE

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute and boundless JOY.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Still have not fully unwrapped the 'gift' that was given me to give.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Non practicing Episcopalian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Faith may be described as an absence, more so than a presence. An absence of doubt. All doubt was removed by the experience.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Faith may be described as an absence, more so than a presence. An absence of doubt. All doubt was removed by the experience.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A couple of Highlights:  Man has been interfacing with this 'Home' for thousands of years. Some men have sought great spiritual power for their own ends. Some have sought to 'Harvest the holy field'. The problem was pointed out in Genesis with the Tree of Knowledge - the 'serpent' lurks there.

  Some have visited the 'Garden' to partake of the Tree, only to return with a complete misunderstanding - a twisting - of the Truth. And sense their understanding is believed to have come directly from Allah, they have absolutely no doubt of its validity. Paul called this Man's 'thorn of the flesh'. Odd to think that the only man, who truly conveyed the Truth, was crowned with 'thorns' as he was crucified.

  Some men have sought to interface with Home by the use of drugs and potions - thousands of them - I call this the 'Fool's Gate'. The results of such exploration have devastated our society more than once.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Everything is completely different.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   For many years it was difficult to express. While 'Home' (during the experience) I had freely understood the mysteries of the universe. Upon my return, my consciousness was no longer expanded boundlessly. It was as though a small desktop computer (me) had downloaded the entire contents of a super computer. I had a gnosis without really knowing what I knew. The entire download acted as a Rubik's Cube in my unconscious. Solving this puzzle became my life's work.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My poor consciousness was fragged by the download. I had been 'tetched' (touched) by the spirit and the experience fractured reality. After several years of solving the Rubik's Cube puzzle in my consciousness, I began to see more clearly what had happened and who I was not.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About ten years after the experience I began to share. Met with mixed and even hostile responses. I learned to keep it to myself.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Although I had no idea of what it was that I newly understood, I felt to have been given a gift of understanding. A gift that was given to me to give.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have passed through the 'storm of silent wind' and I am now at peace with it all.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   The Gate of Fools.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is much to learn about ourselves.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Make it shorter.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roger_f_nde.html