{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roger_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Roger C NDE 744","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roger C NDE 744  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roger C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						253  Roger C NDE  744  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My experience is so special, that I don't know where to start!


It would take hundreds of pages like this one here! I'll try to explain it in a VERY, VERY CONDENSED way...


First


Things started to happen a couple of months before the accident. Seeing dead persons, hearing voices just as I would go to bed and relaxing but not sleeping yet!


It would take many pages here to explain this portion - so I'll go straight to the accident day (September 03 1990 at 03:15 local time). Coming back from Quebec City, my friend was driving my car, at a certain point she lost control of it, and we got involved in a head-on collision with another vehicle.  At that moment, I was projected from my body right away, and was looking at my friend and my body inside the car.  I noticed there was a little fire in the engine area but nothing too severe at the time. Both of us were not moving and appeared to be dead!  She (her spirit) wasn't around me except for her body.


I remember wanting to tell my parents and friends about the accident at that moment and that my life was over (say goodbye).  Immediately, I was in front of them.  It was now daytime and another day too!  I noticed I could travel into time!  My friends and parents were not able to see nor hear me.


From that point, I thought there was something else waiting for me instead of visiting the living, as I was dead! I just let myself go and in my case, there was no tunnel as I remember from reading some NDE stories in the past. I was even waiting for a tunnel, but none.


I went into a dark place with nothing around me, but I wasn't scared.  It was really peaceful there. I then began to see my whole life unfolding before me as if a film being projected on a screen, from babyhood to adult life.  It was so real!  I was looking at myself, but better than a 3D movie as I was also capable of sensing the feelings of the persons I had interacted with through the years.  I could feel the good and bad emotions I made them go through. I was also capable of seeing that the better I made them feel and the better the emotions they had because of me would give me some credits (karma) and that the bad ones would take some of it back - just like in a bank account, but here it was like a Karma account to my knowledge. The more points (karma) I got would give me permission to access a better area or a better place somewhere. It was the knowledge I had then.


At the end of the film (life presentation), everything went black for a while, almost like in a real movie before they turn on the light. I then understood through this knowledge that I deserved a place in what we call heaven without knowing what it would be like or what is heaven! I felt a wonderful feeling of peace, which became stronger and stronger, such a nice feeling.


In the darkness, I began to see a light in the distance ahead of me.  I was attracted to it, but I remember thinking that I could also go away from it or even go back! 'NO WAY!' I said to myself. I came closer and closer to it; the feeling of great peace became so strong, so good!  In real life, I am the type of person who likes to go into details to see how things work.  I didn't want to go too fast and wanted to understand what was going on here.  I then got into orbit (that's the best terms to describe it) around the light.


It was like a cone of light. I heard the words (Peace, Joy, Happiness, Love, Eternity) while I was in orbit around this great really HUGE cone of LIGHT!  I remember that those five words (as a whole) became the only important thing in the universe for me, and I had to get rid of everything else in order to enter into the light. Here I'll skip some details (too long).


The feeling of peace was replaced with a feeling of love. I remembered that something was preventing me from entering the light at that moment and after having analyzed it, I realized that it was grudges I kept towards a few persons. I had to forgive them in order to purify myself from all negative thoughts I could have had toward them. Now that I had the permission to enter the light, I could almost touch it, wanted to enter it, but I was holding back in order to see more details before actually entering the light. I remember also that I was at the bottom of the light cone.  After a certain time, I let myself go and BANG! Just like an explosion of love!


The feeling I had before getting into the light was GREAT, but still a feeling I could explain with human words - but inside, NO WAY. No words can explain that feeling except I thought I would die because these feelings of love were so strong!  I was amazed I could still think like I did on Earth and at that point I started to laugh as I thought, how can I die as I am already dead! So bring on all the love you can, I said! Because I knew the Light or Intelligence in it could understand me.


I thought at that point, there was nothing better and it might be dangerous to increase the love sensation! As it was already far better and stronger than any expectation of heaven I ever had!  As I mentioned, YES more love please. The sensation of great love grew even stronger and I noticed there were different levels in the light.  I've noticed at that point I had the complete knowledge of the universe available to me and I simply had to ask to know! HOW GREAT, I THOUGHT!


My first question:


Is there life elsewhere?


I guess, you know the answer to that! If you don't:


It's a BIG YES!


My second question:


Are there many planets that have more superior life forms than we have on earth?


The answer is thousands of planets having a higher evolution than you know on Earth.


My third question:


Are there many planets with a lower evolution than earth?


YES, thousands too!


My fourth question:


Can I SEE what it looks like on a planet with a higher evolution?


YES!


HERE YOU ARE:


In an instant, I was there on another planet!  I was able to see my body there (I can't see my body in the light).  I'm in the presence of people and am able to TALK TO THEM! HOW GREAT, I THOUGHT!  They were amazed to see me in front of them. I was in some sort of city with flat ground; there were buildings with no windows nor doors, just like big boxes. They had a special way to enter them but it wasn't very important for me to know it! We weren't communicating with voice, but through the minds (telepathic), I was able to understand each word (in French to me) and while I was talking, I know I was using another language with them. This was all done automatically.


They where asking me where I come from?  They wanted to see in my mind the stars I could see from my planet!  The result was good! They where also asking me where on earth I was born, what was the area I liked to see and what I liked to do on earth?  I told them I was born in a village called Caplan, and that I like scuba diving in Port Daniel and New Port, Quebec.  They wanted to see in my mind what it looks like and a map of those areas!  They asked me to show them - if I wanted to.  The result, again, was good as I was capable of mentally showing them the map!  They asked me where I was taking the energy to survive; I knew right away that they were talking about food in a strange way! I told them about the plants that we eat on earth and then they said: Are you also eating what used to be alive? I said yes.


They told me: We knew there were primitive civilizations but not as bad as that!  They were really surprised that someone coming from such a primitive world could meet them on their own planet!  I asked the one (kind of in charge or representing the group).  Where do you take your energy here to survive?


They said, 'We take it from the cosmic power as you do, but directly instead of going through natural interfaces as you do.'


I also asked, 'Do you sometimes travel to other worlds?'


The same one said, 'Yes we do, and showed me a space ship - almost like an airplane but without wings.'


I asked him what kind of energy are you using to travel so far?


He said, 'We are using a gravity generator to get almost unlimited speed!'


I talked about the problems we had on earth with great acceleration due to the gravity-forces involved.


He said, 'Our gravity generator affects the entire space ship including people on board, so there's no gravity-force at all affecting passengers or crew.'


I remember, by the way, that physically speaking they were shorter than us and walked slowly compare to us. Also they didn't have any hair. They had a strange uniform, which molded to their skin as if it were part of it.  It was hard to tell where it began and ended!  They told me, we might go to see your planet sometime in a near future but it is very far from here. I said, 'no problems but be careful'! I said goodbye and thanked them for the information, etc. I went away from them and at night, I took the time to look at the stars.  It was nothing like on Earth, and there wasn't any moon also, but the sky was beautiful with lots of stars.


(A few years later, some local people including a couple of policemen saw a UFO in Caplan, Port Daniel, and New Port, all on that same night. The same description at the same time in different villages.  It has been reported too in the local newspaper.  (It has been described as something that looks somewhat like the Concorde plane without wings, but made no noise, not a sound in the air, and was seen only a few feet from the ground and not moving for a while.)  At that time, I was living in Montreal, more than five hundred miles away from there.


Getting back to my story, after looking at the stars from that planet, I decided to go back to my origin and the origin of everything, the Light.  What a fantastic trip I thought! When I think about humans having a hard time to reach the moon and back! To me now, going to the moon was as simple as crossing the street, and going to a planet about a hundred light years away was as simple as going to the next village!


I also asked, (While being in the knowledge level of the light.)


'Can I see less evolved planets?'


YES!


Here you are!


There were some primitive cave men (full of hair) chasing strange animals (big ones).  I tried to communicate with them but with no results; they couldn't see me nor hear me!  It wasn't too interesting there, so I've decided to go back to the Light.


I learned while I was back that we could not interfere with primitive worlds and it's the main reason there's a great distance in between planets to act as a buffer preventing us from reaching their world, as it could be very dangerous to their evolution since they must go through theirs by themselves, as we need to ourselves.  In a next life, we humans will be incarnated on another more evolved planet, because there's a minimum and a maximum evolution permitted on Earth, and past that point, the most evolved and intelligent person on earth will be the less evolved and the most primitive person on a more advanced world.


I thought about asking some questions regarding earth:


Life will last until what human years as we calculate it now.


Answer: 3587


What would happen then?


See for yourself.


I saw something REAL BIG coming (as a comet, or an asteroid).  Humans were still here on earth at the time.  (Will be, I should say.)  There was total panic on Earth, because scientists will know it's the end of all life on this planet because of that and they will not be able to see it long enough in advance to avoid it.  I took some time to look here and there in the NEAREST future.


I wasn't able to bring back exact years nor time as it could affect what should happen for our own evolution. I know as I told my story to some people after 1990, the year of the accident, that there will be many conflicts involving the U.S.A., and I remember that it will start right in New York City in a few years from now (1990). I had no information that it would be the World Trade Center, and what year exactly but was sure it was New York City, and that all the people of earth would be aware of what would happen. It's now part of the past (9-11).  After that, the east coast mainly will be affected.  There was a major city in a north central state that would be affected.   Almost nothing to the west coast would be affected. Because of that, as I am sure of it, I'll never move to a major city on the east coast even if some company were to entice me with a very good six-figure salary to begin with.


I remember, I had ALL THE DATES and EXACT TIMES of every event in each city!


I said to myself, now that I am dead, I can't change anything anyway.  I went to the end of the conflict.  Even more frightening! Because of the conflict with different countries and less investment in space research and NASA, no one can see something happening and approaching Earth.  Some small asteroid but big enough to cause substantial damage on Earth.


The good news in all that is that because of this event, all nations will stop all their conflicts and try to work together instead of fighting each other, but it will be too late to avoid what could have been avoided.  Starting from that point, the different nations will realize the stupidity of war and will work together for many years to come, there will be, finally, peace on earth but millions of lives lost which could have been avoided! I know this is not too far away in time.


Getting back to some more positive things:


I went to a higher lever into the light, so wonderful, so much love!  This is higher than the level of knowledge, the level of creation as I call it.  Everything becomes possible.  Creating physical things and sharing the creation level with God! Yes I know, it's hard to believe!


I didn't want to come back here on Earth, because I had come from a place of infinite love and beauty, but, nonetheless, I had underestimated the infinite power of the Light and at that instant I formulated a wish that I'd like to return to Earth in order to share this knowledge with as many people as possible.  What I didn't know was that a wish formulated at this level in the light becomes reality.


Upon formulating this wish, I saw myself pulled toward the bottom of the light cone and I slowly found myself outside of it.  I suddenly realized I could see my body once more.  It's then that I saw my friend.  She was coming toward me and the Light behind me.  She was dressed completely in white, like a bride, not walking, but as though floating.  I had the impression that I was on my friend's path as she was slowly moving toward me.  I was going to bump into her and instinctively raised my arms to prevent this.  She did the same.  As we came closer together, our hands touched and I was astonished at the flashes and sparks of light emanating from them.  As the members of our bodies fused together, it's when our brains fused that we could read each other's thoughts perfectly without any possibility of error.  This was despite the tremendous speed at which this took place.  It's here that I made her realize that we're not using speech but telepathy and want to make a test - I want to see if at this point we can still use speech.


I began to talk and realized that I was using her expressions and vocabulary while conversing, but that this was taking way too long and we returned to our new way of communication - so much faster and with feelings also! She was explaining to me that she would be staying in the Light and that her time on Earth was over.  She knew that I, however, was returning to Earth and would never forget this experience as it was so much better than what we had known physically.  The feelings of love were growing weaker and weaker and I could now see the wider scope of everything on Earth; wars, greed, anger, racism etc. As I was getting closer and closer and I was very much saddened by it all.  Suddenly, I was back in the car, flames leaping all around.  I turned and saw my friend's body and knew beyond doubt that she no longer inhabited it. The Light gave me just enough time to exit the vehicle before the flames would reach me.


An autopsy was performed on my friend and it concluded that she died before the flames got to her.  My healing process was nothing short of miraculous despite the many broken bones; the attending physician was stupefied by my progress.  I have returned with a few paranormal talents and some gifts.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    September 3, 1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident     Car accident in middle of nowhere... Far from any house, about 25 miles south of Chicoutimi in the Laurentian Parc. Face to face accident and loss my friend in it (Fire - out of body Exp. at that time before getting into NDE)Car was burning, and if I couldn't get back into my body it would get burned and destroyed too!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See narrative above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      One hundred percent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   See narrative above.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    All kinds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See narrative above.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See narrative above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See narrative above.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     See narrative above.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     See narrative above.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     See narrative above.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See narrative above.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feelings were out of the world and not something we can express using our normal senses.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Worst: looking at humanity.  Best: experiencing eternal love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes, if interested, let me know after reading a very little part of my NDE describe above.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The questionnaire is well made.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roger_c_nde.html