{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roland_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Roland B NDE 6503","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roland B NDE 6503  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roland B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3200 Roland B NDE 6503  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I unknowingly grabbed a 2300 volt power cable.  At that instant, I was totally paralyzed.  I had no control of my body.  I couldn't take a breath, nor remove my hand or even see.  I don't know if my eyes were closed or open.  Feeling the current run through my body was agonizing.  I don't know how long this lasted but I suddenly saw my cousin below me in the tree.  He was very upset and screaming to me.

This vision was extremely clear and confusing because I was facing away from him when I grabbed the wire.  After that, the pain stopped and everything went silent.  I began drifting through this fog like darkness toward what seemed to be human forms ahead in the fog.  I wasn't afraid because I thought they were somehow familiar to me.  I traveled on into this fog into what seemed like an opening with a spot of light in the middle.  Because of the length of time involved between this event and my recounting them, the particulars may not be in the proper order.  Yet everything that I recall is accurate, as I know it.

I had my life flash quickly before me.  It was as if I was watching a movie run very fast.  I continued through what looked like a tunnel towards a light in the distance.  As I approached the light, it got brighter and I was enveloped in this unbelievable feeling of love and security.  It's impossible to describe this feeling of contentment.  All this time it was completely silent.

Then, I was startled out of my ecstasy by a question that suddenly arrived in my mind.  I didn't hear a voice, yet it was as clear as if someone was standing before me.  The question was, 'WHAT GOOD HAVE YOU DONE WITH YOUR LIFE?'  Being only thirteen years old, I had no idea it meant.  I didn't respond, maybe waiting for more information.  Shortly, the question appeared in my mind again.  This time I 'said' I don't know what you mean.  The next thing I knew I was floating in the universe amongst the stars.  Suddenly amazed that I knew everything there was to know, even reflecting to myself 'so that's how it works.'  Then, I woke up in my body thirty feet up draped across two branches, facing the ground, staring at the green grass thinking I was in heaven.  Then, my earthly senses kicked in and I felt miserable.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June, 1960'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Other: electrocution  My cousin and I were climbing a tree.  As I climbed, I would grab onto the electrical wires that were within reach.  These were the wires that ran between telephone poles.  Things were uneventful until I reached the highest wire.  I was told later that it carried 2300 volts of electricity.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Sometime during this period I suddenly saw my cousin below me in the tree.  He was very upset and screaming to me.  This vision was extremely clear and confusing because I was facing away from him when I grabbed the wire.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew everything there was to know.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was floating in space.  I think it was the first time I realized I didn't have a body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It's hard to remember, but my experience didn't have a lot of visual elements.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was mostly silent except for the questions.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was a thick fog, which made identifying any defining features difficult.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     There were shapes in the fog on the periphery that I thought were spirits.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was no discernible source.  The intensity was overwhelming yet so loving, peaceful and secure.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I began drifting through this fog like darkness toward what seemed to be human forms ahead in the fog.  I wasn't afraid because I thought they were somehow familiar to me.  I traveled on into this fog into what seemed like an opening with a spot of light in the middle.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indescribable love, exhilaration, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The next thing I knew I was floating in the universe amongst the stars.  Suddenly amazed that I knew everything there was to know, even reflecting to myself, 'so that's how it works.'

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I can only say that it seemed to project authority without projecting fear.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There is nothing on this earth that you could compare it to.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I always felt that I had an elevated sense of situational awareness of my surroundings and people around me.  I seem to be able to read people well.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It wasn't until I was married seven years later that felt I could share it with anyone.  I told my wife and it was a very emotional time.  I shared my experience occasionally over the years to select individuals and every time I would break out crying when I tried to describe the love that I experienced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I had no idea what had happened to me.  I had no knowledge of this ever happening to anyone.  I had no idea that I had died and come back.  It wasn't until years later that I became aware of near death experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After comparing my experience with those reported by others, the similarities are striking.  I find it impossible to deny the existence of an afterlife.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Once, about twenty years later, I had a dream that I was engulfed in the light and could feel the love emanating from it.  Then, awoke and realized it was a dream.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       After reading Evidence of the Afterlife and taking this survey, I'm curious about the lack of testimonials by clergy.  Also why is the NDE experience such a low percentage of near death events?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roland_b_nde.html