{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roger_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Roger M NDE 2642","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roger M NDE 2642  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roger M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						865  Roger M NDE  2642  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  As a result of the rapid loss of blood, the amount of time that I remained conscious after the fall was only a few minutes. I have very clear memories of the moments leading up to and after my transition from this plane to the next. Miraculously I suffered very little head trauma because of the fall. I distinctly remember going into shock as the blood poured from the severed arteries in my arm. The feeling of my life slipping away became more apparent as I felt the extreme cold come over me as my breathing became more and more shallow. The people at the scene of the accident were all telling me to stay calm and keep my eyes open.

Oddly, I don't remember being anything but calm. I did feel an intense fear of the unknown that I was about to face and at the prospect of never seeing my wife and children again, but that feeling passed rather quickly. I remember taking my last breath and then instantly my entire spectrum of existence changed completely. All the coldness I was feeling while I lay there bleeding to death was replaced with the warmest feeling I have ever known. Not the heat that could be associated with Hell, but a warmth from within my being. I no longer felt dread, fear, or any other emotion I had experienced in a physical realm. I can only describe it as a sense of peace and wellbeing. It's amazing the pressures we feel everyday just by being alive in our mortal bodies. It's only when these pressures are completely lifted from our existence that our souls are able to experience real peace and tranquility.

At the same time, I felt all these changes occur, I also experienced an existence without the burdens of an Earthly body. The senses that replaced sight sound and smell felt like one sense of all inclusive awareness. There was no need for physical interaction as all levels of experience were not felt or spoken, but simply known. The function of sight did not exist, as I had known while in my body. Everything that I perceived as existing could be experienced as the most intense light I could possibly imagine. I remember it as being a hundred times brighter than the sun, but it was not painful to experience. I had the sense that the light was responsible for everything I had been a part of since leaving my Earthly body. I don't know if I can describe this source of light as God or Jesus or any other divine being. It was far deeper than we can describe in Earthly terms or feelings. I had an awareness of this 'source' that needed absolutely no means of conveyance or communication. I had become a part of this 'source' to the extent of oneness. Maybe I had become part of this 'source'.

The thing I remember the most is how distant I had become from the physical body. When we express as humans the hope to one day be reunited with departed friends and family there is no way to explain how we will truly be together again. The reunion is not as father and son or as our dear friend. It's as if our souls are part of an atom that had been split with all the destructive force of the universe and then suddenly come back to form a single atom again. This atom somehow contained every experience ever thought felt or imagined. Nothing ever beckoned me to the light or tried to persuade me to come or go. Our souls just know where we belong. And as fast and beautiful this transition had occurred it was over.

My accident had occurred on Friday, April 4, 2003. I regained consciousness on Monday, April 7. Since that day, I have felt an emptiness that I can only guess comes from having been exposed to a plane that truly liberates our souls from the rigors of mortal existence. Upon my return from death, I cried when I hugged my family, my parents, children, wife, and dear friends. I cried not because I had missed them, because everything I had gone through seemed to last only minutes. I cried because I had absolute knowledge that there is a beautiful awareness that will follow this life and regardless of our experience in an Earthly body our souls will exist in way that human thoughts and words simply can't do justice.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 April 4, 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A severe accident (fall from about fifteen feet) that ended with several broken bones and the complete laceration of all the major arteries in my right arm. After hitting the ground at an odd angle, I went through a plate glass window. It was the massive blood loss that would ultimately bring me face to face with mortality.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had a sense of feeling a part of the entire fabric of all forms of existence in all planes of being. It's as though we not only meet our maker so to speak, but we are our maker or some part of.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My awareness felt at it's height just after I lost consciousness. There is absolutely no mistaking the transition from this plane to the next.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     There simply is no concept of space or time. It simply does not exist.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was not anything to see. Everything is experience in an all-inclusive awareness of being.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Awareness, awareness, awareness!!! All senses act as one.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt every form of being that had ever existed. There was no need for communication when we become each other.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light enveloped the entire plane. It was the 'source' of our being. This light did not appear in the way we see our sun or headlights or any other Earthly light. This light was the reason for everything that has ever taken place.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     The transition can not be described or explained by human terms or concept of existance. I will say that this plane exists distinctly seperate from our own, but is still as much a part of this Earthly realm as our next breath.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Warmth, safety, belonging, indifference, liberation, peacefulness, and wellness. There was no happy or sad, this plane of experience was well beyond that.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I was aware of everything I had ever experienced.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     The feeling or thought of mystery that plagues the human mind is no longer relevant. I no longer have a curiosity about the who, what, where or how of my existence or place in the big scheme of things.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Not devoted to any specific belief system at the time of the accident  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Still not sure what, but definitely something  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I exist in this life and body only in knowing what awaits. The things that make human nature feel individual and exclusive fade as to have never existed at all. It is my impression that we only exist in these Earthly forms so that we are truly able to experience the 'Heaven' of our soul's rebirth as the warmth and peacefulness of all that has, does, and ever will exist.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am able to feel the relationships that I have with others in ways I'd never done before. I can feel a sense of love and understanding for everyone in knowing that we are all alive in each other. Existence breathes collectively outside the confines of this life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience was more of a feeling than an event. There were so many things at the time it's very hard to differentiate between the physical and emotional portions of the experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am very much aware of the spirits that surround us in our Earthly existence.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire process altered my being.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I initially told everyone from friends to family, but soon kept it to myself instead of trying to persuade the skeptic in everyone. Again, there are no human words or descriptions to convey this experience. Of all the typing I've done today I feel as though I've told you nothing.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   But often as the skeptic. I still think there are people that have intentionally fabricated this type of experience. For whatever reasons they may have, there is no way to convincingly fabricate this happening.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The transition from Earthly plane to the next evokes sensations that humans are simply not capable of. Death is the only way to comprehend the whole sum of everything that exists. However some of us are able to accidentally make this transition only to return can't possibly be the way it was intended to be.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again, Human beings regardless of their depth of character or emotions are simply not capable of producing this experience in their thoughts, dreams, fantasies, etc.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If I had hand written this in blood on tear stained paper I could still never tell the experience from my Earthly heart.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None that I can think of.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roger_m_nde.html