{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rodney_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Rodney O NDE 2390","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rodney O NDE 2390  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rodney O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						711  Rodney O NDE  2390  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

At first, it seemed like I had risen upward from myself lying on the floor of my bathroom and moving across this beautiful valley filled with green grass and flowers all over. It was as if I was flying. Maybe like superman did. I felt like something was behind me. I was not sure if what was behind me was good or bad. I know I was very much at ease. Towards the end of it all, I felt like there was something following me and it made me feel like I was being led to some other place or direction. Then, I was all of a sudden being pulled backwards at an amazingly fast pace. The field I was flying over was just a green blur. Then there was a really bright flash of light and then I was being shook. I was back in my house on the floor of my dining room with paramedics everywhere and my wife on the couch with her head on her knees crying. She looked up and then ran over to me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	Last one 8/21/1997  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         accidental overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I don't think I can. But I guess it was because everything there was so vivid and clean. I could see the flowers and the little butterflies on them.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Probably when I was over the field.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Definitely guess it's because nothing else is in your head except for what you are experiencing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Like I said earlier, I did feel like I was being driven towards somewhere I cannot explain. But that was at the end of it all.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I suppose right at the very end before I was back, there did seem to be a flash of something, like a flash moving backwards.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     A beautiful pasture or field of green grass and flowers everywhere.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At ease. I felt like I was just not in any hurry to do anything. I was not asked for anything and I was alone except for what was making me feel differently towards the end of my experience.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I really don't consider myself as any type of religious person.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe more than ever that my Lord has something special waiting for me when I go home to him.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Now I do go to church on certain times of trial and tribulation. I suppose I am a Christian.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe more than ever that my Lord has something special waiting for me when I go home to him.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Probably because what had been happening was so very intense.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really. I just felt like there was nothing I had to do and nowhere I had to go. I just felt like I was happy and at ease.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This wasn't the first time I had one. I have been pronounced clinically dead five times now. So I just knew this had to be real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can say with all honesty that I now know that God as we each see him has a definite purpose for me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I have not used drugs since my overdose.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am now in the worse health of my life. I have been battling this lung disease for some time now. I am currently at the end stage of my illness and have only fourteen percent of my total lung capacity. So I probably don't have a lot of time left in me. At least I know that when my time does come, I have nothing to fear. That Wendy will be taken care of and I will be with all of my family one day.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rodney_o_nde.html