{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1romona_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Romona B NDE 2237","mylang":"de"}
          	        Romona B NDE 2237  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Romona B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						628  Romona B NDE  2237  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I won't go into how I ended up where I did but there I was in a small aluminum boat looking at a huge black wall, knowing in a few seconds we would hit and thinking I can only do what I can do - I couldn't remember until a few months ago what happened next. The aluminum boat hit the barge, the boat flipped toward the barge, I fell into the water, I hit my head on the barge, went under the barge, started swimming around trying to find the side to swim out from under.

No matter where I went, I couldn't find my way out. I couldn't believe this was how I was going to die. I thought about my son in ninth grade and how I was not going to finish raising him and how bad it will be for him and wishing I could stay to see him grow up. I gave up, quit swimming and let myself go then thought of David again and gave it one last try - which way to go? I am right handed I'll go right. I walked my hands on the metal then finally no metal there I twisted to get out from under and then I remember extreme cold then complete calm and happiness. I heard, she has no pulse oh my God, oh my God.

I was then out of body, so light, so free, so content to just be. Everyone was so upset, so desperate to help me; I didn't need help I was fine and so happy more happier than I ever felt. At peace with the feeling of acceptance and love. It was more overpowering then anything I ever felt. I then realized I knew things, it is all so simple, people made things so difficult, it didn't have to be. What really caught my interest is knowing why we can't use all of our brain potential.  Wow, what an eye opener. We have knowledge of this side with us all the time in our head.  But to live here and learn what we must to grow in understanding of emotional pain, physical pain, complete loneliness, complete helplessness, that part of the brain is asleep for as long as our heart is beating. When our heart stops our complete knowledge returns. Everyone who dies sees and hears what they need for their crossover to be as calmly accepted to them as possible, wait there is more I want to remember, then I am so cold, oh no I am back, I hurt, I want to go back. I was given CPR (I had no pulse or heartbeat). This is the hardest school I could ever go to, I am not finished, there is more I have to do, more I have to learn, and it will be harder now, knowing where I could be.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 02-02-03  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was trapped under a barge - trying to find my way out - and thinking I can't believe this is the way I am going to die.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My level of consciousness and alertness tuned to a high frequency. This is the only way I can explain.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Out of my body floating over it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I could see and feel earth but I knew I was out of body at a new place, kind of like looking in a mirror to the other side of it.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were like bright lights turned on into them. I was not solid, I was of substance but very light.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        I was aware of the greatest hardships and problems this world has ever known. I know here the trials are going to get harder and harder for everyone. Those here and their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren are the strongest so they can get through what is to come. I can't remember in detail what is to be.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God is needed in my life, church is optional.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I don't go to church I don't need religion now I have an understanding of what is. Talking to God can be done anywhere at any time.  There are those who feel closer to god in church and need a community of people who feel the way they do to feel even close  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God is needed in my life, church is optional.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I see friends differently. They are complaining about this or that. We are here to have the problem, experience it, learn from it, grow and go on. In relationships, you meet someone, fall in love, it becomes sour, you gave each other a lesson to be learned, you both carried out the relationship's purpose - if you stay you become unhappy, they too become unhappy, there are more relationships to experience you don't so your time here learning has not grown into the full potential it could have. Not to say some are meant to last forever, but some are just a stepping stone to something better. If you are complaining and not finding a solution I rather break the relationship with that person, we are meant to learn and keep going.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My brother-in-law died in 2000. He did not believe in an afterlife. I was on the phone with my sister who lived in Walnut Creek California. All at once, I only could see yellow, as if someone put a yellow sheet of paper in front of my eyes. Then it was gone and in my den, it was filled with bubbles, thousands of bubbles. This kept happening the color yellow then gone, thousands of bubbles then gone. Then I had a voice in my head saying tell her, tell her, tell her, it became so loud I couldn't even hear my sister any more. I then said Marsha, I have to tell you something it makes no sense, I am not crazy but I have to tell you YELLOW BUBBLES. She couldn't believe it. She was happy, so happy. She then told me one night her husband Bob and her watched a movie called Houdini (not sure spelled right). Bob was making a comment of being no afterlife; Marsha told him she would think of a secret word known only to each and whoever went first if there was an afterlife to somehow get the secret word to the one left here. To my surprise, that was the secret words Yellow Bubbles. She picked them because it made no sense, nobody would ever just blurt out those words unless one of them were telling them to.

  My sister Marsha called one evening and I told her to watch the news something was going to happen on the Golden Gate Bridge in the next week in which many people would be there. I wanted her to call if it happened. She called, it did, and someone tried to jump.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, learning what we do from day to day effects other people we do not even know or have met. Turning left instead of right. Going to a show instead of the mall, everything we do makes a ripple that changes something else. We are very connected with each other over there, feel very close, and love one another.  Here in these bodies we are disconnected to each other and very lonely that is why a baby needs a lot of touching to live it is very hard for us to be so totally isolated from each other. We need one another more than we know.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    See 36 above.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Heard about it here and there I didn't think much of it.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew that this reality was, because of the knowledge and understanding about things I had questions about and things I never even thought of. I now know I was over, it happened, I knew, I had knowledge I never had before I only regret losing a lot of it only remembering bits and pieces.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My experience was eye opening. I am not the person I was. I sometimes miss this.  I view the world with different eyes, the world and its meaning is all new and sometimes a bit uncomfortable. Now with this experience I have changed and change is not always easy but now I know it is always necessary.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1romona_b_nde.html