{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rod_h_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Rod H Probable\u00e1NDE 6508","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rod H ProbableáNDE 6508  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rod H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3204 Rod H Probable NDE 6508  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This event happened to me a long time ago, however it has remained with me as an indelible memory. I was fourteen at the time, lying in my bed, very sick. There were three doctors in attendance, my mother being one of them, and they were all deeply concerned. I was lapsing in and out of consciousness. 

I remember one time 'waking up' and finding myself looking DOWN on my bed and being most surprised to find another person in MY bed. I realize now that it was me, or at least my body.  At that time, I did not recognize it as mine. I was up at about ceiling height, maybe a bit higher. Although I could hear the murmur of the doctors, I could not distinguish their words. However I could understand their intentions, and I knew they were deeply distressed. 

As for me, I was at peace, not feeling sick or in pain. I also felt I had not 'gone anywhere'. It was more as if the earth had slipped away out from under me. I could still see and hear, but had clearly left my body. I can't remember what happened after that. 

My next memory was waking up in the hospital. After that, I turned vegetarian (I had grown up on a heavy meat diet) and have been healthy ever since. My experience was very brief, but clear enough to show me that death is not, in any way, the end

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had an undiagnosed kidney infection.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was aware of the concern regarding me (my earthly self.) The doctors in attendance were at loss as to what to do. I returned to my body apart from anything they did.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very much aware of being alive, rather than in my thoughts. I wasn't just 'thinking about' this experience, I was IN it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The beginning, I think.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't remember, other than I COULD see.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I think I could hear, except I couldn't understand what they were saying or distinguish the words. It was more of a murmur. I could, however, understand the attitudes and intentions of the speakers.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     But I only remember the beginning of a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Through the tunnel there was light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt just love and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I think my experience was too brief.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   No religious background, From a strongly Atheist family

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I have a strong connection or Knowledge of the Creator [ God]  however I do not follow any religion. Religions I now know are predominately   about the past with hope about the future, My connection is all about Now !

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     before the experience I was a devout Atheist and Science septic, after I clearly knew there was more, I went on to learn and experience much more.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Well yes, this is a trick question, To understand " the meaning of Life" is to understand what part of your consciousness or experience is "Life " This experience definitely gave me a good starting point to that understanding.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I distinct feeling that death is not the end, the world simply " slips away " from under you. " You " don't go anywhere.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I discovered a spiritual life very soon after the experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I now have direct access through meditation to the experience of 'Life.' I also have strong communication with my recently departed partner through a medium. This all seems very 'normal' to me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I got the distinct feeling that death is not the end. The world simply 'slips away from under us. We don't 'go somewhere.'  Before the experience, I had been a devout atheist and science-oriented skeptic. Afterward, I knew very clearly that there was more, and since that time, I have continued expanding my experience and knowledge.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rod_h_probable_nde.html