{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 4677 3953 4041","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_31_january_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 January 31 1890","mylang":"de"}
314 .A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. [Jan. 31.
II.
A DEFENCE OF PHANTASMS OF THE DEAD.
By F. W. H. MYERS.
The question whether aught in man survives the death of the body
is of course, and undeniably, the most important which researches such
as ours can ever hope to solve. It is more than this; it is the most
important problem in the whole range of the universe which can ever
become susceptible of any kind of scientific proof. Cosmical questions
there may be which in themselves are of deeper import. The nature of
the First Cause; the blind or the providential ordering of the sum of
things ;-these are problems vaster than any which affect only the
destinies of men. But to whatever moral certainty we may attain on
those mightiest questions, we can devise no way whatever of bringing
them to scientific test. They deal with infinity j and our modes of
investigation have grasp only on finite things.
But the question of man's survival of death stands in a position
uniquely intermediate between matters capable and matters incapable
of proof. It is in itself a definite problem, admitting of conceivable
proof which, even if not technically rigorous, might amply satisfy the
scientific mind. And at,the same time the conception which it involves
is in itself a kind of avenue and inlet into infinity. Could a proof of
our surviva.l be obtained, it would carry us deeper into the true nature
of the universe than we should be carried by an even perfect knowledge
of the material scheme of things. It would carry us deeper both by
achievement and by promise. The discovery that there was a life in
man independent of blood and brain would be a cardinal, a dominating
fact in all science and in all philosophy. And the prospect thus opened
to human knowledge-in this or in other worlds-would be limitless
indeed.
Since, then, our researches carry us perforce into the neighbourhood
of a question so vast as this, we must take care that we do not slip intO
assuming an answer without full consciousness of what we do, In
PlumtaaTnIJ cifthe Li,,';ng any answer whatever was expressly postponed.
But evidence reached us which we could not refuse to examine j and
Mr. Gurney, as my readers know, was at the time of his death actually
engaged upon this very task. It fell to my lot to complete the paper
which he had in preparation (P.roceedings, Part XIV.), and to add
another (Pa.rt XV.), which carried the evidence somewhat further•.
But those papers consisted mainly of a detailed exposition of testimony ;
Digitized by Google
1890.J A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. 315
and dealt too slightly with the philosophical aspect of the question,~
the degree of readiness or reluctance with which we ought to accept
the hypothesis of man's survival, when D1at~hed wit.h other hypotheses
which, if less directly suggested by the evidence, may yet lie more
assuredly within the realm of ascertainable law.
Mr. Podmore's criticism upon my views expressed in the above-
mentioned papers comes, therefore, opportunely. It should be answered
not only by actual rejoinder to its arguments, but by something of
fuller statement as to the way in which our psychical evidence generally
affects the doctrine of man's survival. For Mr. Podmore starts from a
thorough belief in the reality of telepathy between living men, and
e~deavours to explain the so-called phantasms of the dead as being in
reality generated by minds still clothed in flesh. His explanations, as
he frankly admits, are many of them "far-fetched and improbable" ;
but he regards them as less far-fetched, as less improbable, than the
supposition that anything in man survives the tomb.
For reasons presently to be given I do not regard Mr. Podmore's
intermediate position as permanently tenable. In one sense, indeed, I
should be glad to think it more plausible than I do ; since it might prove
a stepping-stone to the acceptance of evidence which I believe to be true,
but which is too strange, too remote from ordinary experience, to be
readily believed. For I fear lest as students begin to perceive how
closely our evidence of telepathy between the living is linked with
telepathy between the living and the dead they may suffer a kind of
revulsion or backwater, from dread of the" mysticism" which to many
minds seems somehow to adhere to the facts themselves, however
careful the mode of their presentation.
But the strongest reason for immediate reply to Mr. Podmore's
criticisms lies in the danger that those criticisms should operate upon
possible informants in a way which he deprecates as earnestly as myself.
Our investigation requires that a constant stream of evidence should flow
in. It is only by perpetually gathering in fresh experiences at first-hand
that we can maintain a real difference in value between our own colliga-
tions of actual facts and the loose speculAtions of apriori negation or of
apriori credulity. The difficulty of collecting this evidence is very
great already. It would be increased if possible informants were to
suspect, however groundlessly, that their narratives were examined with
any kind of prepossession, or their stranger experiences discounted as
proving too much. On the other hand, this frank avowal of divergence of
opinion between the two secretaries to whom evidence may be sent may
suggest an additional motive to our correspondents to furnish materials
which may help to decide the controversy in one way or the other.
I must insist again upon the deep importance of the amount
and the quality of the records sent to us. The urgent question is not
Digitized by Google
316 .A Defence .of Phantasms of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
how our evidence is to be interpreted in detail, but whether or no it is
to be set aside altogether. Human testimony is on its trial. It re-
mains, that is to say, to be s.een whether Science can accord to honest
testimony (of a kind which can rarely be confirmed by direct experi-
ment) a confidence sufficient to bear the strain put upon it by the
marvellous matters for which that testimony vouches. I believe that the
veracity, the accuracy of our informants, taken en masse, will ulti-
mately support that strain, and that the world will be convinced of
veridical apparitions as the world has been convinced of meteorites.
Meteorites,-those other invaders from the unseen,-were until
lately quite as scornfully rejected; and naturally rejected, 80 long as
the evidence for phenomena. 80 marvellous rested on antique traditipn
and peasants' tales. Then came a moment,-like the moment which our
inquiry is traversing now,-at which inquiring men who had actually
spoken with the peasants and seen the fragments believed that stones
had fallen. And then suddenly the fall of meteorites was accepted as
a natural phenomenon, an almost inexplicable but a quite undeniable
fact. In recent papers I have endeavoured to exhibit-so to say-
some specimens of meteoric dust. In the present paper I must try to
show the hollowness of the negative assumption which for this inquiry
corresponds to Lavoisier's famous dictum, "There are no stones in the
air; therefore none can fall upon the earth."
I shall not, of course, debate ab ovo the well-worn question of a
life to come. Rather I shall discUBB in what way that ancient con-
troversy is affected by the discovery of telepathy amongst the living;
which I shall here follow Mr. Podmore in assuming as adequately
proved. But I must indicate the starting-point from which my
argument is to begin. My reader must· understand that I am confining
myself exclusively to the scientific aspect of the question. I therefore
waive all reference to the fact that the majority of civilised men
profess at least to believe that sufficient evidence of man's survival has
long ago been attained. But, on the other hand, I protest against
an opposite assumption which seems to me to be almost as narrow,
almost as unphilO8Ophical, as blind faith in instinct or in tradition
can possibly be. Because we men, with our short and confined
experience, have as yet no clear knowledge of thought or consciousness
apart from the flow of blood through a ponderable brain, it is often
assumed that it is indefinitely improbable that thought or consciousness
can, anywhere in the universe, exist except in such a connection.
This argument is cogent indeed against the practice of mummifying the
dead,-against the.expectation that the actual dust of outworn frames
shall· be revivified by 80me startling decree. Life, as we know it,
cannot persist in connection with disintegrated tissue, a desiccated
brain. But what more than this can we affirm 7 Amid the infinite
Digitized by Google
1890.] .A. Defence of Phantaams of the Dead. 317
possibilities of the Cosmos the persistence of discarnate life is per 8e
neither probable nor improbable. On the a priori aspect of the
question science can have no more to say.
I proceed to the more definite query as to how far a belief in
telepathy,-in a communication between incarnate minds apart from
the operation of the recognised organs of sense,-ought to influence
our belief in the possibility of a communication between minds incar-
nate and minds discarnate,-minds, that is to say, for which the
recognised organs of sense are altogether lacking. Mr. Podmore holds,
as I understand him, that telepathy should make no difference at all ;
that here is simply a newly-recognised law of nature which we must
henceforth allow for in the same definite manner as we allow for the
laws (say) of chemical affinity ;-and with the same presumption that
any new combinations which we come upon are due to the action,
under novel conditions, of this same identical force.
My own view is in one sense more cautious, but in another sense
bolder. On the one hand, I do not venture to treat telepathy so freely as
Mr. Podmore treats it,-to draw his hypothetical inferences as to forms
of it to which experience has not yet introduced us. But, on the other
hand, I regard telepathy, not as a fact standing alone and self-sufficing,
but as a first hint of discoveries which cannot be circumscribed,-a
casually-reached indication of some unknown scheme of things of
which thought-transference, clairvoyance, apparitions at death, may be
but subordinate effects or incidental examples. Unprovable as such an
hypothesis obviously is, it has the advantage of putting us on our guard
against other hypotheses which make more pretence to proof. The
notion of brairlrwaV68, for instance,-the analogy of the two tuning-
forks which vibrate in unison,-was at first attractive to many minds.
It seemed comparatively easy to add this new vibration to the
numerous systems of vibrations which we know or suspect to be
actually traversing space. Yet this fancy of brain-waves (from which,
by the way, Mr. Gurney and I were from the first careful to stand
aloof) has become less and less plausible, less and less explanatory, as
evidence has accumulated. The cases on which such a conception
might throw light are everywhere interwoven with cases where it
seems wholly inappropriate.
And yet this idea of brain-waves had a possibility of definiteness.
It was conceivable that it might have been the key to all the pheno-
mena. There is not the same definiteness in the conception with
which Mr. Podmore replaces it. As the key to all the phenomena.
inexplicable by more familiar causes he suggests telepathy between
tke living. But telepathy is not a simple and positive conception
which we can manipulate with confidence. It is not a law at which
we can a,rrive deductively from other known laws. Nor is it even-
Digitized by Goo~
318 .A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
like the law of gravity-an expression of a definite universal fact,
which we can count upon although we cannot arrive at it deductively.
I probably go beyond Mr. Podmore in holding that the simplest
case of true thought-transference, if once admitted, breaks down
the purely physiological synthesis of man, and opens a doorway out
of materialism which can never again be shut. And I agree with
him in holding that in Pha-ntaBmII of tM Living a continuous con-
nection has been traced between the smallest experiments in telepathy
and such complex phenomena as the phantasmal appearance of
a dying man to several persons together, or to a person who never
knew him. But from this I infer-not that all these complex
phenomena are merely varieties of the special phenomenon with which
it was, convenient to begin our inquiry i-but rather that a mixed
multitude of obscure phenomena can now be seen to have a certain
kinship, insomuch that the evidence for each class strengthens by
analogy the evidence for the other classes i-while all classes alike are
probably the outcome of laws too remote from terrene experience to
admit of being grasped at present by minds like ours.
At the time when Plw/nta811l8 of tIle Living was written it seemed
to be accordant with scientific caution to treat all the supernormal
phenomena. there included as being-whatever else they might or might
not be-at any rate instances of the direct influence of one mind upon
another. But although I still hold this as true in the main, I should
no longer wish to assert it of every case gil'en in that book. Some of
those cases, for instance, may be explicable by clairvoyance,-by some
energy exercised by the percipient's mind alone, without there being
any so-called II agent" in the affair at all. In view of this possibility
and of those other still less defined possibilities towards which some
of our evidence obscurely points, it seems to me unreasonable to treat
telepathy as if it stood alone as a possible explanation i-as if there
were no rival conceptions in the psychical field.
And, moreover, the evidential position itself has considerably
changed during the past four years. A large part of our evidence
for post-mortem apparitions has been collected since PkantasmB cif
tile Living appeared. And as our evidence now stands I find no
rational halting.place between our smallest experimental transferences
from mind to mind and apparitions generated by men long dead. I
do not mean that each stage of the evidence is equally strong. There
are - as has elsewhere been shown-abundant reasons, drawn from
the mere ordinary facts of life, which make it much harder to prove a
post-mortem apparition to be veridical than it is to prove the same
thing of an apparition which coincides with death. But a fresh
practical difficulty in making evidence cogent does not necessarily
imply a philosophical gulf between the more and the less easily proved
Digitized by Google
-
1890.] .A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. 319
phenomell8o. I sugpect that could we see all olir phenomena set out in
their true relations, we might find that the gap between a phantom
generated five minutes before death and a phantom generated five
minutes after death was not so broad as the gap between the trans-
ference of a card from mind to mind and the impression on distant
persons of a. phantasmal personality.' May not the importance which
we attach to death be largely a subjective thing t a mere example of
the way in which man's speculations on the universe are tinged with
an ineradicable anthropomorphism 1 Who can say that there may not
be quite other points in our chain of phenomena at which a dis-
passioll8ote non-human expositor might feel it more logically suitable to
open a fresh chapter'
My argument, says Mr. Podmore, stands in need of two assump-
tions ;-that the dead still live, and that they can communicate
with survivors. Elsewhere he assigns to me a third assumption,-
that the dead are conversant with the aspect of their body after its
death.
I prefer to put my theory in my own way,-as a single postulate
which will carry with it all that I am endeavouring to show in detail.
I assume, then, that the individualised energy which generates veridiCII.l
phantasms is not coeval with the body. It has not, I mean, the same
duration as the ,body; it may have pre-existed, and it may survive.
As to the details of this conception,-power of communication, power
of memory, «c.,-my view leaves us with regard to the behayiour of
phantasms of the dead just where we stand in regard to the behaviour
of phantasms of the living. It leaves us, that is to say, in a state of
blank ignorance Ii priori,-an ignorance which can be dispelled by
actual evidence alone.
Mr. Podmore believes, as I do, on the sheer strength of the evidence,
that Mr. S. H. B., for instance (Phantasnl,80/ehe Living, Vol. I., p. 104).
was able by'what we vaguely call an effort of will, to manifest a phantom
of himself to several persons at a distance. Could we have anticipated
this' Could we have predicted beforehand how that phantom would
behave' whether it would seem to show intelligence or not 1 whether
it would be perceptible to one person only or to more' whether
Mr. S. H. B., as we actually know him, would have any recollection of
the phantom's actions or no t
We could have predicted none of these things; and neither can
we make any prediction as to the intelligence, the memory, the per-
ceptibility of a phantom-if such there be-which is generated after
bodily death. And all that I assume is that whatever the energy
may have been which generated the phantom of the living S. H. B.,
that energy was not dependent on the vitality of his bodily tissues.
Can anyone show me that it was so dependent' or give reasons
Digitized by Google
320- A Defence of Phantasms oj the Dead. [Jan. 31,
--why, in our absolute ignorance, my supposition is to be treated as
so much less likely than the opposite one 1 I claim, indeed, that
quite apart from any evidence to apparitions after death, and look-
-ing only to the class of cases set forth in Phanta8mB of the Living,
there is good ground for holding that the energy in question is not
bound up, in the same way as our conscious mental energies are
hound up, with the physiological activity of the brain. The concomi-
tant variations of bodily health and mental vigour form, as we know,
.an obvious argument for the view that with the total cessation of
bodily functions our mental functions also must wholly cease. So far
as our conscious mental activity goes, this exact concomitance admits
of no provable exception. But so soon as we come to deal with mani-
festations of the unconscious self,-of the profounder strata of our
being,-the case changes at once. Even in the hypnotic trance we
observe a greater independence of certain corporeal conditions,-as
when a hypnotised patient can talk freely in spite of a wound which,
in his waking state, would keep him absorbed in his pain. This, of
course, resembles rather a shutting off of certain bodily distractions
than the development of any new mental force. Going a step further,
we find hypnotic hyperresthesia increasingly difficult to explain by
anything that we know of concomitant bodily states. But when we
come to telergy,-to the power of propagating influences or phan-
tasms at a distance,-then the familiar parallelism between bodily
and mental states assumes a quite strained and hypothetical air.
At first, indeed, it might have appeared as though that parallelism
still subsisted. We spoke of phantasms coincident with moments of
death or crisis,-as though a strong upheaval of the conscious being
disengaged some influence which might be felt afar off. But as
further cases were gathered in it became clear that the "crisis" which
facilitated telergic action was not necessarily a moment of conscious
excitement or strain. Quite otherwise; for it was fouitd that the
CI agent," at the-moment of the apparition, was often asleep, or fainting,
or even in a state of coma. Not the moment of death alone, but also
the hours of abeyance and exhaustion which precede death, were found
apt to generate these appearances. Nor is the moment of death itself,
under ordinary circumstances, ~ moment of impulse or exaltation. Far
oftener it is an imperceptible extinction of energies which have already
waned almost into nothingness.
It would, then, be nearer the truth to say that telergic action varies
inversely, than that it varies directly, with the observable activity of
the nervous system or of the conscious mind. And it follows that the
presumption commonly urged against the conscious mind's continuance
after bodily decay loses much of its force when we are considering this
new-found form of mental energy,-so much less manifestly dependeru;
Digitized by Google
1890.] .A Defence of Phantasm8 of the Dead. 321
upon bodily states. We come back-as I have before said-to a.
problem whose conditions are wholly unknown.
Turning now to Mr. Podmore's criticisms, we find that they fall
into three classes. First, he gives reasons for regarding the narratives
pointing to post-mortem apparitions as ill-evidenced. Secondly, he
endeavours to show that the details of those narratives are not such as
we should expect if the phantoms were really generated by the spirits
of the departed. And, thirdly, he suggests ways in which those
narratives may be explained by the agency of persons still living.
(1) Arguing for his first point, Mr. Podmore repeats a remark on.
which I have already insisted ;-namely, that the mythopreic instinct
of mankind works in favour of a type of "ghost story" far more full-
flavoured,-more pregnant with poetic justice or with curdling horror,
-than our first-hand cases can generally claim to be. It is so; and
it was by considering those very cases in our privately-printed series
to which Mr. Podmore ref~rs in detail that we assured ourselves that
80 it was. There is nothing to be surprised at here. And, as I have
said, the fact that the mythopreic drift is in that direction serves to
my mind to heighten the presumption in favour of the genuineness of
cases of post-mortem apparition so flavourless or so odd as most of
those on which I rely;-corresponding so poorly to that which man's
fancy loves to feign. I have already explained what I hold to be the
cause of the emotional barrenness, the Heeting insufficiency, of most of
these projections upon terrene existence of iniluences whose centre is
no longer among breathing men.
And with regard to the amount of that evidence which I hold as
good, both Mr. Gurney and I have always stated that it was far less
than the evidence for veridical phantasms among the living. It must
be less,-as I have again and again to repest,-beca.use in our ignorance
of how the departed "agent" is faring we cannot appeal to 1,is history to·
show some coincidence with the moment when this phantasm is observed
by his surviving friend. We have to leave out of account the great
bulk of these poat-mortem appearances,-these "visions of consolation,"
-because we cannot cite some entry in a departed spirit's diary to·
prove that he was at that moment endeavouring to manifest himself to
his friend on earth. But the evidence, with all its necessary restric-
tions, continues to accumulate ;-accumula.tes (like our other testimony)
just in proportion to the amount of energy and care which are expended
in collecting and testing the incidents now lying in the memory of manya.
percipient who will reveal them on]y to skilful persuasion. Mr. Podmore
knows as well as I how miserab]y inadequate is all the energy at our dis-
posal,---especially since the loss of our chief and ablest collector,-to
garner up the harvest of first-hand evidence which lies ready for us on
every side. To found a negative argument upon the small number of
Digitized by Google
322 .A Defence of PhanUl8r1UJ of the J)eml. [Jan. 31.
cases yet encountered which point to man's continuance is rash indeed j -
as rash as it was to argue against man's antiquity whenonly afew batches
of flint implements had yet been discovered. It must never be for-
gotten that we stand at the very beginning of a quest which no assign-
able number of years will complete; and that thus far we have found
that almost every solid nucleus of first-hand intelligent testimony to
some special type of phenomenon has received with further search fresh
corroboration at a rate which,-distinctly perceptible in the work of &
few men for a few years,-might easily become overwhelming if &
hundredfold our labour were applied to the task for a century.
(2) But going on from the charge of inadequacy in the bulk of
evidence, Mr. Podmore proceeds to argue that the' characteristics of
such apparitions as seem prim4 facie to imply survival of death are
difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that the apparition seen is the
manifestation of an intelligent entity, and suggest rather that it is to
be attributed to casual hallucination. The absence of apparent motive
in these phantasms seems to him to support that view.
I have already explained that, in my view, these phantoms, although
emanating from a personal intelligence, do not represent the main
current of that intelligence; and must be expected to behave-not as
Mr. S. H. B. (to go back to that instructive example) would himself
behave when calling upon friends, but rather as his projected phantom
behaved i-with the same dreamy absence of apparent purpose, the
same blank and fugitive appeal. I have contended,-not that this is
all that is left, but that it is all that can usually reach us; that the
gulf between disparate modes of existence is too great for any directer
message to cross it. Nor do those special characteristics on which Mr.
Podmore dwells seem to me inconsistent with my view of what these
phantoms signify. I will take his objections in the order of rising
importance.
(1) "The occurrence of phantasms resembling animals." We are
agreed that a phantasmal figure need not be directly generated by &
mind or entity precisely resembling itself. 'Vithout, therefore, raising
the question of the continued existence of animals after death, we may
maintain that their presence among phantasms of the dead is no more
of a difficulty than their appearance among phantasms of the living.
(2) "The liability of the percipients to casual and apparently
non-veridical hallucinations." To this I demur; and I should say, on
the contrary, that in the cases cited by Mr. Podmore the other
hallucinations which the percipients had experienced were of a type
which, although not provably veridical, are at least so possibly
Teridical that they rather improve than weaken the evidence for
the veridicality of the special apparition in question. Let us take
one of the cases cited by Mr. Podmore (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 26.
Digitized by Google
1890.] A Defence of Phanta8'm8 of the Dead. 323
Case IV.) as a fairly illustrative instance. In that case 0. lady sees· 8.
figure which she does not recognise; her husband then sees it, and
recognises the aspect of his deceased father.. Mr. Podmore regards the
lady as the primary percipient here, and 'supposes that she infects her
husband with the ho.llucination; although he does not explain how she
manages to infect him with a phantom face and figure well known to
him, and unknown to lterself. But letting this pass for the moment,
let us appraise the weight of the objection that this lady "had ex-
perienced a previous hallucination unshared; 0. circumstance which may
be regarded as indicating some predisposition to sensory hallucination."
What, then, was this previous hallucination 1 Was it a skeleton 1 a.
Turk's head 1 a semi-human" Mr. Gabbage" 1 did it take, in short, any
of the familiar forms of morbid illusion 1 On the contrary, it was the
consoling vision of her own father, seen shortly after his death. Now
this vision, of course, was not evidential. She was mourning for her
father, and grief and excitement may have summoned up a purely
subjective figure. I refrain, therefore, from claiming that vision on my
side; but I object equally tQ Mr. Podmore's claim ;-to his reckoning
it as suhjecth'e just because, from the very nature of the circumstances,
it could not, even if veridical, have been· evidentio.lly cogent. Mr.
Podmore describes a message from a man whose death is already
known as " practically superfluous"; but this sternly evidential point of
view is not always shared by survivors. Nor need the sorrowing girl's
departed father have been of opinion (to quote Mr. Podmore's phrase
about yet another case) that" after the fact of the death was known
the message itself could no longer serve any useful purpose." For
although it was, no doubt, "superfluous" for this gentleman to inform
his daughter that he had died, he might deem it worth while to inform
her that he was still living.
In short, the predisposition to sensory hallucination with which
Mr. Podmore credits this lady and other percipients may quite possibly
be a predisposition or sensitiveness to -veridical hallucinations; just as
in the case of many of the percipients in Plwlntasms of tlte Living,
who have experienced several phantasms, each one of which proves to
have been coincidental.
(3) Mr. Podmore's next objection deals with 0. fact undoubtedly
perplexing ;-but equally perplexing, I think, whatever be the theory
which we adopt. I mean the fact that several different phantasmal
figures have often been seen in the same house. I will refrain from
expressing my view on this question until we have considered the
theories which Mr. Podmore himself suggests for the explanation of
these post-mortem phantoms generally.
Mr. Podmore's definition (p. 232) of the nature of the coincidences
needed to make pollt-mortem apparitions evidential closely follows that
Digitized by Google
3240 .A Defence of Phanta8m8 of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
already given in several papers in these Proceeding8 i nor is it needful
to dwell further on the cases which he cites where these coincidences
have not been established. Such cases I had already dismissed from my
argument as of no value.
Mr. Podmore suggests a possible explanation of the cases to which
I do attach importance by one or other of the following hypotheses :-
(1) The latency of the hallucination; allowing a phantom gener-
ated at the moment of death to become first perceptible some time
afterwards.
(2) The contagion of the hallucination; allowing a phantasmal
perception to be communicated from the original percipient to the
person or persons'present with him.
(3) And, still further, a telepathic i'ifection of the hallucination,
from A, who has once seen it in a house, to B, who does not lmow A,
and who has never heard of the hallucination, but who succeeds A as
tenant of the house in question.
Of these theses I hold that (1) represents a real fact, although a fact;
manifestly incapable (as Mr. Podmore allows) of explaining the bulk
of the evidence on which I rely. For (2) I have as yet seen no evidence
which looks to me plausible; and (3) seems to me a rash suggestion~
and likely to attract unnecessary attack.
The suggestion-made by Mr. Gurney in our earliest papers--
that a telepathic impression might remain latent in the sub-conscioua
mind until some favouring circumstances carried it upwards into
recognition,-remained for n. long time with only rare and inferential
support. But (as Mr. Podmore justly remarks) Miss X.'s experiments
in crystal-vision have called attention afresh to tllis capacity of latency.
The change which these experiments, if confirmed and repeated, will
make in our conceptions on this point will be somewhat as follows. It
has long been known that the sub-conscious mind can produce "after-
images,"-more or less extemalised pictures of some person or object.
previously seen. This is indeed our ordinary explanation of non-
coincidental hallucinatory figures of known persons. But it was
usually supposed that after-images represented mainly something on
which the gaze had been often or strenuously fixed,-as, for instance,
objects seen under the microscope. Miss X.'s experiments, on the other
hand, suggest that anything which has come within the field of vision
may be reproduced as an after-image, whether it has in the first instance
been wittingly perceived or no. And some of these crystal-visions seem
to have been telepathic; so that (although these contain no clear
example of latency or development) we may conjecture by analogy
that it is possible for impressions caused by telepathic impact from other
minds to remain for some unknown period below the level of conscious-
ness, and then ultimately to rise into perception in some hallucinatory
Digitized by Google
1890.] .4 Defence of Phantasms'of the Dend. 325
form. But in dealing with phantasms of the dead this possibility has
already been expressly allowed for; and Mr. Podmore's remarks seem
to add little to what has been said (for example) in Proceedings, Vol.V.,
p. 431.
I cannot, at any rate, follow him in thinking it possible that General
Barter's vision of Lieutenant B. (Vol. V., p. 468) may be explained as
" the development of a latent image." "The figure, " Mr. Podmore says,
"represented the agent as he was during life." But an essential part of
the narrative is that it represented the agent decorated with a "New~
gate fringe," as he never was when General Barter had seen him ;-
as he never was, indeed, when he was out riding anywhere, since.
he had only grown that appendage in the hospital during his last
illness. Mr. Podmore is surely riding his theory as hard as Lieutenant
B. rode his ponies if he supposes that a latent image of a casual acquain~
anre will vivify itself after nearly a year with ch'!onge of aspect corre..
sponding to actual fact,-and, moreover, with an accompaniment, which
Mr. Podmore ignores, of marked hallucinatory sounds heard on several
occasions by three persons at least. All I can say for that hypothesis
is that it seems to me a shade less impossible than its author's alternative
explanation of the incident, which will be discussed below.
As regards Mr. Podmore's next point, the explanation of collective
hallucinations by actual telepathic infection (without suggestion by
word or gesture), I have little to add to my arguments in Pl&antasms
of the Living (Vol. II., p. 282 sqq.). I there urged that if we wished
to prove that hallucinations can be directly contagious we ought to
produce instances of collective hallucination where other explanations
were out of place,-where the hallucination was plainly a subjective
affair, and could not, therefore, be independently caused in A, B, and C at
the same moment. Nor should there be difficulty in producing such
cases of contagion, considering that the great majority of hallucinations,
and those the most persistent, are without question purely subjective-
affectionsi-being the result of delirium, disease, and insanity. No cas&
of this sort, so far as I could then or can now discover, has ever been
shown to be contagious, apart from suggestion by gesture or speech.
Andeven amongthe casual hallucinations of sane persons I could not,and
cannot, find any cases where a hallucination which is obviously purely
subjective-as an after-image or a fantastic figure-has been shared by
more than one person. I must save space here by merely referring to.
my earlier discussion; and must repeat my own provisional view that,
until evidence of the kind suggested has been adduced, the fact that a.
hallucinatory sight or sound is perceived by two or more persons is
primd. facie evidence that this sight or sound-albeit not due to
ordinary physical causes-yet has some generating cause outside the
mind of either of the percipients.
y
326 A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
It is to Mr. Podmore's tl,ird explanatory hypothesis, however,
that I take the strongest exception. In this case he goes far beyond
a suggestion which sepmed to me when I made it to be an ex-
treme outpost of the telepathic theory. In Proceedings, Vol V.,
p. 420, will be found a case where a Mrs. Green, in Ireland, had a
terrifying dream (at once communicated to others) representing a very
unusual scene of the accidental drowning of a niece personally un-
known to her, which scene had occurred in Queensland more than 12
hours before the dream. In this case Mrs. Green's brother, the father
of the drowned woman, learnt the news about the time of the dream.
"His mind," I remark, "may have supplied the link between the
actual scene and the dream in England, and the scene would be vividly
present to him at the time when the dream occurred." Amidst the
difficulties of this case, it seemed to me possible that the grief of Mrs.
Green's brother (Mr. Allen) might have generated or reinforced the
telepathic impression which gave rise to Mrs. Green's dream. For
the first reception of the news of a daughter's violent death amounts
in itself to a kind of crisis; and we may well suppose that Mr. Allen
had never experienced such a moment before.
There is a great interval between this hypothesis and the
way in which Mr. Podmore uses a similar theory to explain (for
instance) the phantasmal sights and sounds experienced by Mrs. G.,
her two children, and servant in the house at X, with which so many
members of our Society are now personally familiar (p. 259). In this
case, a previous occupant, Miss Morris, who had been much annoyed
by ghostly experiences in the house, left it in December, 1886.
Towards the end of November, 1887, Mrs. G. entered the house as a
new tenant. Mrs. G. did not know Miss Morris, and had heard nothing
as to the house's history. Yet Mr. Podmore suggests that " the later
experiences,"-i.e., the ghostly troubles of Mrs. G. and her family,--
"may have been started, if not wholly sustained, by thought-trans.
ference from Miss Morris, whose thoughts, no doubt, occasionally
turned to the house in which she had suffered so much agitation and
alarm."
Let us consider what this implies. Miss Morris, who had left the
house for a full year when the new disturbances began (December,
1887), can hardly be imagined to have been still in a state of active
panic. Still we may suppose, as Mr. Podmore says, that she at times
thought over her past annoyances. The result of these fatal recol-
lections should certainly teach us to control our thoughts as strictly as
our actions. For t,he very first effect of Miss Morris's ponderings was
" a deep sob and moan," followed by a thump and a cry of "Oh, do
forgive me" ;-0.11 disturbing poor Mrs. G., who had the ill-luck to find
herself in a bedroom about which Miss Morris was possibly thinking.
Digitized by Google
1890.] A Defence of Phantusrns of the Dead. 327
Worse was to come, as the narrative shows (pp. 256 8qq.); and at last
the unconscious Miss Morris drove Mrs. G. out of the house in despair.
Surely on this view the peace of all of us rests on a sadly uncertain
tenure! Many things-experiences quite other than ghostly-have
happened in many houses on which former occupants may look back
with feelings of regret or borror. There might indeed be a com-
plex group of phantasms waiting for eacb new comer if the accu-
mulated reminiscences of all previous inmates took ghostly form before
his eyes.
I will quote but one instance more i-the alternative explanation
given by Mr. Podmore for General Barter's vision of Lieutenant B.
(see p. 284 above).
"It seems more plausibJe," he says, "to attribute [the vision] to
telepathy from Lieutenant Deane, who had been well acquainted with
the decedent during the last few months of his life, and who had
left the percipient but a few minutes before. On the assumption tbat
the vision had been due to the direct action of the deceased, its coinci-
dence with Lieutenant Deane's visit remains unexplained."
Now, in the first place, I do not see much "coincidence" in the
fact-no unusual one surely at an Indian station-that the Deanes
had been making an evening call upon their friends and neighbours the
Barters ;--and I conceive that all that this visit had to do with the vision
was tha.t in reconducting his friends General Barter happened to find
himself at the propitious place and at a propitious hour for the apparition
to .become visible. But, apart from this, consider what Mr. Pod-
more's view involves. Lieutenant Deane, as he walks home with
his wife, forms so intense a mental picture of a deceased acquaintance
to whom he certainly was not much attached ;-he realises so
vividly how Lieutenant B. would look if he were riding down the hill
intoxicated after a " wet evening" at mess i-that his mental picture
externalises itself in sight and sound for General Barter and General
Barter's dogs. Now it is not logically inconceivable that telepathy
might act in this way,--on the man at any rate, if not on the dogs. I
am willing to admit that a picture strongly occupying A's mind might
externalise itself to B as a phantasmal image in A's vicinity. But I
repeat that it is an extraordinary thing that this power of transference
of mental pictures should operate simply and solely in transferring
mental pictures of dead persons, or (as in the case of the house at X.
just quoted) in transferring mental pictures symbolising horrors
experienced by the mental-picturer at the recollection of the imagined
sight of dead persons. If General Barter had been in the habit-
which he was not-of thus extemalising pictures out of his friends'
minds; if Lieutenant Deane had been in the habit-which he was not
-of pondering with intense anguish on his dissipated comrade's fate,-
y 2
Digitized by Google
'\
'328 ,A Defence of Phantasm8 of tlte Dead. [Jan. 31,
there might have been some plausibility in Mr. Podmore's view. But,
as the case stands, we have a right to ask why the ordinary interests,
the ordinary excitements of our neighbours,-their money-affairs, their
love-affairs, and the like,-are not perpetually obtruding themselves
upon us in phantasmal guise. Until they do so, it is hardly plausible
to assume a transference of our neighbours' thoughts or memories
as the explanation of this one special class of phenomena which point;
primd facie to the influence of the dead.
It was objected to us when we published our first evidence for
thought-transference that such a possibility was contrary to the uni-
versal experience of mankind ;-that human beings were in actual fact
constantly anxious to read each others' minds, and constantly unable
to do so. To this we replied that the kind and amount of thought-
transference to which our experiments pointed was not such as to be of
importance in actual practice, or to obtrude itself upon the notice of
anyone who was not carefully seeking it. Such has continued to be
the character of our experiments ;-decisive (as we must hold) as to the
reality of the power in question, but indicating also that that power is
rare, fleeting, and inconspicuous. In the present state of our telepathio
evidence we must a.void postulating sudden irregular extensions of
this little-known power,-just in order-like the Ptolemaics-" to save
appearances,"-to' cover somehow all the observed phenomena without
recasting our much-strained theory. "Cycle and epicycle, orb in orb" ;
-complex and elaborate indeed must be the reasoning which would
explain by the action of the living the apparitions of the dead.
I recognise, however, that while dealing thus severally with Mr.
Podmore's hypotheses I have not yet fully met the o~iections which he
or others have urged against my own. Especially there remains an
objection which, though capable of being turned against Mr. Podmore's
view as well as against mine, becomes, no doubt, the more telling as more
and more significance is attributed to narratives of haunting and the
like. I refer to the large admixture of fragmentary, meaningless hallu-
cinations of sight and sound,-mere vague noises, momentary lights,
&c., which do not readily suggest intelligent agency. Mr. Podmore
freely classes these hallucinations as purely subjective, and seelDs to
suggest that telepathic hallucinations, due to other living minds, may
be readily engraft.ed upon, or may readily engender, these merely
delusive manifestations. I do not myself see much evidence for such
conjunction of false phantasms with true; but I admit that something
more than this demurrer is needed from me; that I ought to try to
show in what wa.y these inchoate, scrappy hallucinations are explicable
on my own scheme. I do so with some reluctance; for in passing from
Mr. Podmore's view to my own I feel that I reject the improbable only
to embark upon the 'Unp,·ot·able and that my critics will hardly be at
Digitized by Google
1890.] A Defence of PhantCt.s?ns of the Dead. 329
the pains to separate what I regard as evidence from what I admit to
be conjecture.
I have already urged that if once the possibility of a direct
transference of ideas and impressions from mind to mind be estab-
lished,-a transference independent of sensory organs, and not arrest~d
by crowded cities or by breadth of sea,-then we must regard this
far-acting power, this far-perceiving sensibility, as indicating the
existence of a scheme of laws, a system of forces, of which our
sciences of matter are as powerless to take account as our balances
are to weigh the cosmical ether. Yet, like the existence and properties
of that ether, these spiritual forces may conceivably be comprehended
by inference,-detected in their inconspicuous interfusion with causes
better understood. For the present, assuredly, our inferences, our
conceptions, must be of the vaguest, most provisional character.
But there is one assumption which we in this century can no more
avoid making than the savage could avoid ascribing the movements of
nature to the action of spirits bent on his weal or woe. Where his
conceptions were inevitably self·centred, ours,-be they true or false,
wise or unwise,-are inevitably naturalistic, cosmical, evolutionary.
And thus if there be any impingement whatsoever of a. spiritual world
(I use this tenn as readily, though vaguely, intelligible) on our
mundane sphere, we are forced to imagine that impingement or
interaction to be of such a kind as would be recognised by higher
intelligences as subject to laws not primarily framed for subservience
to human needs, or recognition by human intelligences. It must be
something utterly different from the specially-authorised interferences
which the mass of mankind continue to imagine in this one realm,
although science has expelled them from every other. And it follows
that since we have some evidence that such impingement exists,
it is n~t fantastic but reasonable to consider, in a broad analogical
manner, in what ways its manifestation might best accord with our
notions of nature.
So far as we can judge from the behaviour of other laws or
forces, which, while entirely removed from our direct cognisance, are yet
inferred to produce occasional conspicuous physical effects, we shall be
led to suppose that the vast majority of the effects produced by the
unseen world upon our own are not definit.ely recognised by our
intelligence. We nre likely to note only a. few emergent instances,-
phenomena specially directed towards us, or specially incapable of
being referred to ordinary lawd. "Specially directed towards us," I
say;-for we may conjecture that the law of intercommunication
between the seen and the unseen may, like other laws of nature,
be sometimes utilised by intelligences fa.miliar with its bearings.
"Specially incapable of being referred to ordinary causes," I say;-
Digitized by Goo~
330 .A Dr/wee of PhaniwnnB of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
for we cannot tell a priori after what fashion such influences may
be perceived. Our ordinary apprehensions are not of the facts in
nature theoretically most important, but of the facts in nature most
important for the preservation of our own bodily organisms. We
perceive low degrees of light because even a low light helped our
a.ncestors to search for food; we do not perceive low degrees of
electricity, because to those ancestors weak electricity was wholly
unimportant. But the human organism has many capacities which
are rarely manifested; and in every direction some few persons are
found who perceive phenomena unimportant to ma.n's life and un-
observed by the multitude. The perception of certain psychical
influences may be like the hearing of yery shrill notes, or the
perception of the presence of a hidden cat in the room,-an innate
capacity which from its practical uselessness hM never yet been fost.ered
by the race, and which consequently reaches its higher grades only in
a few chance individuals.
Or, again, these supposed psychical influences may present them-
selves as perceptions too feeble to allow us to recognise their super-
normal character. Few phenomena are theoretically more important,
or practically more continuous, than the fall of meteoric dust on the
earth. Yet this dust. hM descended unobserved upon the heads of all
men in all ages, and has only been recognised when the falling body
attained a quite unusual size and weight.
The great majority of psychical influences may, on this analogy, be
quite below the level at which they could attract our attention. They
will disturb human life as little as the fall of cosmical dust disturbs
weighing operations conducted in the open air. Then when they
attain to a somewhat greater magnitude, they will be conspicuous but
not recognisable. They will be vague, inchoate sounds or sights to
which it will be hard to assign a distinct origin.
On the old view, that which was to be looked for (if anything WIlS
to be looked for) from the unseen world was an occasional definite
apparition, induced by grave causes, and standing wholly apart from
other phenomena.. In my view, on the other hand, we must look for a
miscellane(\us interfusion among terrene phenomena of phenomena.
generated by extra-terrene causes.
This conclusion (fromwhichI can see nological escape)looks perilously
like a. return to the animistic superstitions of the savage,-or at least to
the medireval ascription of any specially puzzling cil'cumstance to the
agency of the devil. The reader will feel himself in danger of being
drawn into t.he worst possible intellectual company,-into that credulous
band who argue that because an incident might conceivably be super-
normal, therefore it is supernormal.-and who resent any effort to refer
their marvels to the action of ordinary laws. I must therefore at once
1890.] A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. 331
insist that my object is a quite different one. I am not going to rest
any evidential claim whatever upon any phenomenon which might be
due to ordinary physical causes, or to mere subjective hallucination.
The cases to which we appeal as evidence must be not vague and
inchoate but distinct and coincidental. All that I claim is that these
vague phenomena, surrounding the distinct phenomena, should count
as neutral ground; -that they should not be used, as Mr. Podmore has
used them, to discredit those distincter phenomena of which they
form, in my view, an integral, though not an evidentially-valuable,
part.
This, ~ repeat, is the full extent of the evidential, the controversial,
use which ought to be made of these obscure phenomena. From a
speculative point of view, however, there is more to be said. When
we are no longer trying to prove that veridical phantasms do occur, but
are assuming the fact· of their occurrence and trying to explain their
genesis and development,-then indeed these inchoate, rudimentary
phenomena of sight and sound will acquire a tltcoretical importance
which as evidence they cannot claim to possess.
Just as, in trying to trace the causes, say, of a paralytic seizure, we
feel it needful to note all smaller symptoms which precede, accompany,
or follow the principal shock, so also in tracking the genesis of a
veridical hallucination we are bound to note all such minor hallucina-
tory percepts u.s have grouped themselves about the central phantasm.
These subsidiary hallucinations cannot be meaningless, cannot be
arbitrary; they must in some way indicate the mode in which the
unknown energy is operating to produce the main result.
A complete record should, I think, be made in the first place of
the phenomena which do accompany veridical hallucinations, and in the
second place of phenomena which are frequent in the hallucinations of
the insane. or in the plainly subjective hallucinations of sane persons,
but which are not observed to accompany hallucinations of a veridical
type. Much of this task has already been performed by Mr. Gumeyl;
and I will illustrate the value of these comparisons by referring to some
cases where he has shown the various forms of connection of luminous
appearances with veridical apparitions. Sometimes we have the
phantasmal figure seen as though illuminated on a dark background.
Sometimes it appears as in a disc or oval of light. Sometimes its
contour is indistinct, and it resembles a luminous cloud,either for the first
moments of its appearance or throughout all its stay. Sometimes there
is no figure at all, but a phantasmal" ball of light," or a brilliant
diffused glow, which seems a sufficiently unique experience, and
1 PAaIll_ O/IM Lilli7l{l, Vol. I., chap. xi.: "Transient Hallucinations of the
Sane," and heading .. LuminOBity" in Index.
Digitized by Google
332 A Defence of Phantwnrt8 of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
coincides sufficiently closely with a death, to have some claim to rank
as a veridical phantasm. Now from all this I argue that the phan-
tasmogenetic agency at work-whatever that may be-may be able
to produce effects of light more easily than definite figures. I shall
think it antecedently probable, therefore, that there will be many
veridical hallucinations which will not get beyond this stage ;-wbich
will produce impressions of light and nothing more, yet which will be
in reality of just the same type as those whicb rise into distinctness
and recognition. When, therefore, in our accounts of "haunting"
phenomena I read of brilliant phantasmal lights, apparently meaning-
less, I do not set them down as necessarily indicating a tendency on
tbe percipients' part to merely subjective hallucination. I claim that
they must rank as ambiguous phenomena,-tellingdecisively neither for
nor against some agency external to the percipient. And if they are
witnessed independently by several persons, I say that they may then
afford strong presumption that there is some agency external to the
percipients, but unable to impress itself upon their minds in any
more developed or personalised form. .
A similar argument will hold good in the case of the vague 'tal-
lucinattny noise. which frequently accompany definite veridical phan-
tasms, and frequently also occur apart from any definite phantasm in
houses reputed haunted. As regards these inarticulate noises, there is
of course always a possibility that they are real objective sounds, due
to undiscovered physical causes. When a sound is sudden and never
repeated it may often be impossible to explain it; but I think that
when any sound, however vague or obscure, is frequently repeated, its
physical cause, if physical cause it has, ought to be detected by careful
investigation. Here, as in so many other parts of our inquiry, nothing
is needed except just that careful and exact attention which has never
yet been bestowed.
I might pursue this discussion of inchoate manifestations much
further, and might suggest other phenomena, besides lights and noises,
which may by analogy have some supernormal origin, hut which must
inevitably remain unrecognised. But for brevity's sake I will go on to
another cause of unrecognisability on which as yet I have but very
briefly dwelt. I allude to the large part which local attraction seems
to play in the generation of post-mortem phantasms. In PhantaBm.
01tlte Living there were cases which suggested that during life, or at
the hour of death, it was sometimes a. local rather than a personal
cause which induced or determined the apparition of the dying man.
And in post-mortem cases-as our evidence has shown-this feature is
still more prominent. To me it seems that it may well be only as an
exceptional thing that any post-mortem phantom is recognised by any
survivor. If once it is admitted that phantasms may be in some way
Digitized by Google
1890.] .A Defence of Phantasnt8 of the Dead. 333
conditioned or attracted by that form of assemblage of influences which
we term locality, it is plain that we transitory tenants of the earth's
surface can have no claim to appropriate all the memories which may
act upon the departed. If apparitions be the dreams of the dead, they
will dream of affairs of their own in which we have no share. And if
(as both .Mr. Podmore and I hold) these phantoms are to be regarded
as the reflections of some external mind, then I maintain-in opposi-
tion to him-that they do at least primd facie resemble dreams of the
dead rather than dreams or" the living.
Dreams of the dead, I suppose, equally well with dreams of the
living, may include figures which are not the figures of the dreamers
themselves. Such, possibly, may be the explanation of the cases where
several distinct figures are observed ill the same house. As in certain
cases ill PhantMms ofthe Living, the subsidiary figures Illay possibly
take their rise in the shaping imagination of the principal agent. But,
apart from this, it seems to me that if we grant to locality any influence
at all, we cannot predict in what way that influence may show itself.
We need, I think, much fuller histories of what has happened in
houses now "haunted" than we yet possess, before we can discuss the
question of these multiple appearances with much hope of result. In one
case-which we are not at liberty to cite in detail-at least six figures
seen in the same house by persons not cognisant of it.'i history have
been plausibly identified with actual personages in the past. In this
case the materials for recognition-both phantasmal and historical-
happen to be unusually full. But in most houses-in such houses, for
instance, as that at Prestbury, where various figures were seen-the
memory of former tenants quickly fades, and no means are left by which
the revenant can prove his identity.
The present paper has thus far been mainly concerned with visual
manifestations of the dead, since these form the most convenient group
for compnrison with those phantasms of the living, from which I have
tried to distinguish what I regard as real post-mortem apparitions.
But my case for post-mortem manifestations does not rest upon appari-
tions alone.
It nppears to me that there is an important parallelism running
through each class of our experiments in automatism and each class of
our spontaneous phenomena. Roughly speaking, we may say that our
experiment and observation cOlllprise five different stages of phenomena;
viz., (I.) hypnotic suggestion; (II.) telepathic experiments; (III.) spon-
taneous telepathy during life; (IV.) phantasms at death; (V.) phantasms
after death. And we find, I think, that the same types of communi-
cation meet us at each stage; so that this recurrent similarity of types
raises a presumption that the underlying mechanism of manifestation
at each stage may be in some way similar.
Digitized by Goo~
334 .A Defence of Plumta8m8 of the Dead. [Jan. 31.
Again using a mere rough form of division, we shall find three main
forms of manifestation at each stage; (1) hallucinations of the senses ;
(2) emotional and motor impulses; (3) definite intellectual messages.
I. And first let us start from a class of experiments into which
telepathy does not enter. but which exhibit in its simplest form the
mechanism of the automatic transfer of messages from one stratum to
another of the same personality. I speak, of course, of post-hypnotic
suggestions. Here the agent is a living man, acting in an ordinary
wa.y, by direct speech. The unusual feature lies in the condition of
the percipient, who is hypnotised at the time, and is thus undergoing
a kind of dislocation of personality, or temporary upheaval of an
habitually subja.cent stratum of the self. This hypnotic personality,
being for the time at the surface, receives the agent's verbal suggestion,
of which the percipient's waking self is unaware. Then afterwards,
when the waking self has resumed its usual upper position, the hypnotic
self carries out at the stated time the given suggestion,-a.n act whose
origin the upper stratum of consciousness does not know, but which is
in effect a message communicated to the upper stratum from the now
submerged or sub-oonscious stratum on which the suggestion was origin-
ally impressed.
And this message may take anyone of the three leading forms
mentioned above i-say a hallucinatory image of the hypnotiser or of
some other person; or an impulse to perform some action; or a.
definite word or sentence to be written automatically by the waking
self, which thus learns what order has been laid upon the hypnotic self
while the waking consciousness was in abeyance.
II. Now turn to our experiments in thought-transference. Here
again the agent is a living man; but he is no longer operating by
ordinary means,-by spoken words or visible gestures. He is operating
on the percipient's subconscious self by means of a telepathic impulse,
which he desires, indeed, to project from himself, and which the per-
cipient may desire to receive, but of whose modus operandi the ordinary
waking selves of agent and percipient alike are entirely unaware.
Here again we may divide the messages sent into the same three
main classes. First come the hallucinatory figures-always or almost
always of himself-which the agent causes the percipient to see.
Secondly come impulses to act, telepathically impressed j as when (in
Madame B.'s case) the hypnotiser desires his subject to come to him at
an hour not previously notified. And thirdly, we have a parallel to
the post-hypnotic writing of definite words or figures in our own
experiments on the direct telepathic transmission of words, figures,
cards, &c., from the agent, using no normal means of communication,
to the percipient, either in the hypnotised or in the waking state.
The parallel between the telepathic messages and the post-hypnotic
Digitized by Google
1890.] ,A Defence of PhantwmUJ of the Dead. 335
messages will thus be pretty complete if we regard the phantasmal figures
of Mr. S. H. B., Baron Schrenck, «c. (so often referred to),1 as really
pamllel to the phantasmal figures of Professor Beaunis, «c., which
hypnotic subjects are made to see. I admit, however, that I do not
regard these two classes of phantasmal figures as really parallel, for two
main reasons. In the first place the telepathic phantasm (Mr. S. H. B.)
is sometimes perceptible to more than one person, while the hypnoti-
cally suggested phantasm (as thus fur known) is only perceptible to the
person to whom the suggestion has been made. And in the second
place, the agent who projects the telepathic phantasm (Rev. C.
Godfrey, Mr. Cleave), is sometimes himself more or less conscious of
being present with the percipient; whereas the hypnotiser who has
ordered that a semblance of himself shall appear to his subject at a
given date remains of course himself quite unaffected by the halluci-
natory figure of himself which his subject's hypnotic self generates at
the appointed hour.
I conceive, in short, that in telepathic cases there is a transmission
from agent to percipient which differs profoundly in kind, and not only
in degree, from any transmission of idea or impulse in which the agent
employs normal means of suggestion, by voice or gesture.
III. We come next to the spontaneous phantasms occurring during
life. Here we find the same three broad classes of messages i-with this
difference, that the actual apparitions, which in our telepathic experi-
mentation are thus far unfortunately rare, become now the most
important class. I need not recall the instances given in Phanta8mB
of tIle Living, «c., where an agent undergoing some sudden crisis seems
in some way to generate an apparition of himself seen by a distant
percipient. Important also in this connection are those apparitions
of the double, where some one agent (Mrs. Stone, Mrs. Beaumont, «c.)
is seen repeatedly in phantasmal form by different percipients at times
when that agent is undergoing no special crisis.
Again, among our telepathic impressions generated (spontaneously,
not experimentally) by living agents, we have cases, which I need not
here recapitulate, of pervading sensations of distress; or impulses to
return home (Skirving, «c.), which are parallel to the hypnotised
subject's impulse to approach his distant hypnotiser, at a moment when
that hypnotiser is willing him to do so.
And thirdly, among these telepathic communications from the living
to the living, we have definite sentences automatically written, com-
municating facts which the distant person knows, but is not consciously
endeavouring to transmit. A typical case of this kind (Mrs. Kirby's)
1 PAafllamu of tM Lit'inu, Vol. I., pp. lxxxi-iv., 100-110; VoL II., pp. 611-6.
JotmUJl, VoL II., p. 307.
Digitized by Google
336 A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
is given in Journal, Vol. III., p. 298; and there are others which must
be cited in a future paper.
IV. Passing on to phantasms which cluster about the moment
of death, we find our three main cll1.Sses of cases still meeting us. Our
readers arc familiar with the visWll cases, where there is an actual
apparition of the dying man, seen by ,one or more persons; and also
with the emotional and motor CI1.Ses, where the impression, although
powerful, is not definitely sensory in character. And various cases
also have been published where the message has consisted of definite
words, not always externalised as an auditory hallucination, but some-
times automatically uttered by the percipient himself or automatically
written by the percipient, as in the cnse communicated by Dr. Liebeault
(P/tantasl1UJ oj tllc Living, Vol. I., p. 293), where a girl writes the
message announcing her friend's death at the time when that friend·
is in fact dying in a distant city.
V. And now I maintain that in these post-mortem cases also we
find the same general classes persisting, and ill somewhat the same
proportion. Most conspicuous are the actual apparitions, with which,
indeed, the preceding pages have mainly dealt. It is very rare to find
an apparition which seems to impart any verbal message; but I give
as Case I. in an Appendix a case of this kind. As a rule, however, the
apparition is of the apparently automatic, purposeless character, already
so fully described. We have also the emotional and motor class of
post-mortem cases (as Moir's); and these may, perhaps, be more
numerous in proportion than our collection would indicate; for it is
ob,·ious that impressions which are so much less definite than a visual
hallucination (although they may be even more impressive to the
percipient himself) can rarely be used as evidence of communication
with the departed.
But now I wish to point out that, besides these two classes of post-
mortem manifestations, we have our lAird class also still persisting;-
we have definite verbal messages which at least purport, and sometimes,
I think, with strong probability, to come from the departed.
Personally, indeed, I regard this form of evidence to post-mortem
communications as the most cogent of nIl. If I have not hitherto
touched upon it in this series of papers, this has not been from any
indifference to it, but rather from a sense of its importance, and of
the care with which it should be approached. I have endeavoured to
lead up to it by another series of discussions on automatic writing and
other forms of automatism, which may help to perform the preliminary
task of showing to what sources olller than communication from the
departed we are bound to refer the enormous majority of genuinely
automatic messages, however obtained. For in no part of our whole
field of inquiry have error and delusion been more conspicuous than
1890.] .A Defence of Phantasms of tile Dead. 337
in this. The ascription of the paltriest automatic messages to the
loftiest names-human or divine; the awe-struck retailing of the
halting verses of a "Shakespeare," or the washy platitudes of a.
"St. John,"--all this has been equally repugnant to science, to religion,
and to plain common-sense. And short of extravagance like this, in
the case of the great majority of automa.tic messages, their claim to
proceed from the departed has no valid foundation, since all the actual
facts contained in them have been known to the writer, although
they may be presented or discussed in a manner which the writer does
not anticipate, and which may seem characteristic of a departed person.
But a certain number of cases remain where the message given
contains verifiable facts of which neither the writer, nor anyone else
present at the time, was-so far as can be discovered-previously
aware. It then becomes our business to consider from what mind these
messages can have been originated.
Some cases of this kind were cited and discussed in the Society for
Psychica.l Research Journal for February, 1888 (Vol. III., p. 214, Bqq.).
Others may be found in" M.A. (Oxon's)" Slririt Identity, now out of
print. And four are given in an Appendix to this paper: Cases II.,
III., IV., V. All these were sent to me by our Corresponding Member,
the Hon. A. Aksakoft; and three of them (II., III., IV.) have appeared
in his new work, AnimismUB und S]riritiB7nUB. Case II., however, is
here given with important additional matter sent to me by 1\1.
Aksakoff, and Case V. now appears, I believe, for the first time.
In considering such messages we must remember that there is a.
possible way of explaining almost any message without postulating the
continuance of personal life after bodily death. It is conceit'able that
thought-transference and clairvoyance may be pushed to the point of a.
sort of terrene omniscience; so that to a man's unconscious self some
phantasmal picture should be open of all that men are doing or have
done,-things good and evil photographed imperishably in some
inexorable imprint of the past. In such a case, the apparent personality
of one departed might be only some kind of persisting synthesis of the
psychical impressions which his transitory existence had left upon the
Bum of things.
All this might be; but before such a hypothesis as this could come
within the range of possible discussion by men of science there must
have been a change of mental attitude so fundamental that no argu-
nlent at present adducible either way could tell for much in the scale.
For the present our business must be to collect the truth-telling
messages, without pretending 1;0 any absolute certainty as to their
source. But those who wish to prove continued personal identity must
keep two needs in view ;-first the need of definite facts, given in the
messages, which were known to the departed and are not known to the
Digitized by Google
338 .A Defence of Phaniftsnts of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
lIoutom!l.tist; and secondly, the need of detailed and characteristic utter-
ances; a morlll means of identification corresponding, say, not to the
meagre Bignalel1lent by which 0. m!l.n is described on his passport, but
to the individual complex of minute markings left by the impression of
a prisoner's thumb.
When I consider how slight, how careless, how occasional, all
experiment of this kind has as yet been-and yet what striking frag-
ments of evidence have issued from these scattered attempts,-I cannot
but hope that the systematic study of human automatism, human
peI'SOnality, may lead to the gradual discernment of peI'SOnalities other
than the automatist's, operating unspent in the penumbra of his uncon·
scious self.
I will not push my arguments further. I do not pretend to
accredit them with a cogency which they do not possess. I shall have
accomplished all that seems at present possible if I leave my reader
feeling that my suggestions, although ohviously unprovable, are not
obviously improbable; nay, that, were they once admitted, the pheno-
mena, as tbus far known to us, would fall easily and naturally into
place. It must be for further evidence to decide a controveny which,
however anciently debated, is barely yet becoming ripe for scientific
discussion.
But before closing this p!l.per I must refer to two objections of a
mora.l kind with which my former paper has been met. It has been
urged on the one hand that the.ere apparitions form so sorry, so distaste-
ful a spectacle that they serve to repel men from the study of psychical
phenomena which seem to lead up to such a degradation or parody
of the hope of cternal life. And on the other hand I have been
rebuked-and here Mr. Podmore has joined in the warning-for
attracting premature adherence to my theories by holding out an
unwarranted expectation of the immortality which man's heart desires.
These two objections, as will be seen, are self-contradictory; yet I
cannot leave the one to answer the other, nor maintain that either
of them is void of force. At different moments, and in different
moods, I have felt both of them myself. And I think that, diverse
as the charges seem, the reply that best meets the one best meets
the other aIso,-and consists in something of explanation of the frame
of mind in which, as I conceive, we should enter upon inquiries in which
issues so vast as these are involved.
And tint let me say that my own belief as to the attractive effect
on men's minds of such prospect of survival of death as this evidence
implies has undergone an important alteration. In the Introduction
to Phantasms of tlte Living I insisted on the supposed danger which
~Ir. Podruore still fears-the danger of "taking advantage of men's
hopes or fears," of "gilding our solid arguments with the radiance of
Digitized by Google
1890.] A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. 339
an unproved surmise." It was natural to imagine that men would
eagerly welcome any new light, however glimmering, on a prospect
which they profess to regard as essential both to virtue and to happi-
ness. But the wider experience, the first-hand knowledge of the real
feelings of men, which this long investigation has necessarily brought
with it, have greatly modified thl\t original impression. I believe now
that there is no danger lest arguments such as mine should be too
eagerly accepted as falling in with my readers' wishes. I suspect, on
the other hand, that if they are to take real hold of men's minds they
will need to be driven home with far more of appeal and insistence
than I can attempt to give them. For this is not what men desire-
this inferential, incomplete demonstration that in some fashion or other
there is something which survives the tomb. What men want is the
assurance of personal happiness after death; or if they cannot feel
this, they wish at least for such half-belief as may enable them to dis-
miss such speculations altogether. They do not desire to know more
about death, but to avoid thinking of what they know already. A man
will tell you in the same breath that he trusts to enter upon eternal
happiness when he dies, but that he would rather not discuss such
depressing subjects. Some weak spirits even invent for themselves a
kind of new superstition-one knows not whether further removed
from the temper of Plato or of Augustine-according to which there is
something presumptuous or irreverent in allowing the mind to dwell or
speculate upon the serious destiny and chief concerns of man. All this,
I do not doubt, the ministers of religion well know. They know that
besides those nobly trustful souls to whom all good seems natural and
all high hopes assured, their flocks contain a large percentage of timorous
spirits who ask only to be lulled into security and to be saved at any
cost from fear. Such men certainly are not disposed to look too closely
at the evidence for what they desire. It is not they who are influenced
by any words of ours, or who are at the pains to follow the groping
steps with which in these Proceedings we clamber to a dubious glimpse
of that Promised Land which they have already mapped out to their
satisfaction.
Our work, so far as I can tell, is mainly followed by readers of a
very different type. There is an attitude of mind, becoming yearly
commoner among educated men, which, although neither cynical nor
pessimistic, yet regards the present without enthusiasm and the future
without eagerness. There is an acquiescence in the life of earth, and
a deep distrust of the unknown. With the advance of knowledge, with
the quickening of imagination, a feeling almost new in the world has
arisen,-&. kind of shrinking from the magnitude of Fate. The words
Infinity, Eternity, are no longer mere theological counters; they have
taken on an awful significance from our growing realisation of astro-
Digitized by Google
340 A Defence of P1w.ntasrn8 of the Dead. [Ja.n. 31.
nomical periods, of galactic spaces-lithe gleam of a million million
of suns." A soul from which the Christian confidence is withdrawn
may well feel that it is going forth into t.he void,-not as a child to his
Father's home,-but rather as a spark of sentiency involved amid enor-
mous forces, and capable of unimagined pain. And t.hus it comes that
men tacitly desire to make a compromise with Fate, to be satisfied
with this mixed and fleeting life, and to ignore the possibilities of the
Unknown.
Such, as I observe, is the prevailing temper which our evidence has
to meet. That evidence does not attract, it rather irritates many of
the best minds of our age. They are unwilling to reopen the great
problem at aJI, and are naturally the more unwilling insomuch as the
new evidence itself seems so perplexing and grotesque. Perplexing and
grotesque indeed! I answer; but it is evidence; and if any evidence
there be, then neither can science continue to ignore the problem nor
philosophy to assume the solution. What is needed is simply a dis-
passionate intellectual curiosity bent upon unravelling the indications
of man's survival after earthly manhood with the same candid diligence
which has so lately unravelled the indications of man's descent from the
brute. We need not fear that men will be persuaded too easily into
such a temper as this.
Rather is it to be apprehended,-and here I have in view a.
different group of objectors,-that even those men who care deeply
about man's future-who welcome any rebuilding of philosophical
fabrics which may encourage hope-will stand aloof from our scattered
unintelligible facts, and will prefer their own II cloud-capp'd towers ,.
to any rough foundation-stones which we can hope to lay.
Yet would there not be something cowardly in a refusal to
accept the only definite facts attainable because they are not the
kind of facts which we should have best liked to know 1 Ancl
would there not be something childish in the notion that the unseen
world must consist of vague and ghastly objects-
Mockeries and masks of motion and mute breath,
Leavings of life, the superfiux of death,--
simply because the apparitions which form at present our clearest in-
dication of that world's existence are by their very nature fugitive and
strange 1 As well might Columbus ha...:e turned back when the
first drift-wood floated out to him from America, on the ground that
it was useless to discover a continent consisting only of dead logs.
All such reluctances and hesitations as these will disappear as men
learn, in a larger sense than ever before, II to see life steadily and see it
whole,"-to maintain in this unfamiliar air the same dispassionate
Digitized by Google
1890.] A Defence of Phantasrn8 of the Dead. 341
curiosity and steady persistence of research by which alone objective
truth in any direction ho.s ever been attained by man. There is no fear
lest the Cosmos itself be meaningless or incoherent; the question for us
is whether we men are ever to have a chance of entering into its mean-
ing, recognising its coherence; or are doomed to remain on the outside
of all deep significance, and but to gaze for a moment on the enormous
pageant o.s it sweeps by us with an unknown purport in obedience to
an incognisable Power.
APPENDIX.
CASE I. [G. 192.]
[Communicated by FraUlein Schneller, sister-in-law of the percipient,
and known to F. W. H. M., January, 1890.]
About a year ago there died in a neighbouring village a brewer, called
Wiinscher, with whom I stood in friendly relations. His death ensued after
a short illneBB, and as I seldom had an opportunity of visiting him, I knew
nothing of hill illness nor of his death. On the day of his death I went to bed
at nine o'clock, tired with the labours which my calling as a farmer demands
of me. Here I must observe that my diet is of a frugal kind ; beer and wine
are rare things in my house, and water, as usual, had been my drink that
night. Being of a very healthy constitution I fell asleep as BOOn as I lay
down. In my dream I heard the deceased call out with a loud voice, "Boy,
make haste and give me my boots." This awoke me, and I noticed that, for
the sake of our child, my wife had left the light burning. I pondered with
pleasure over my dream, thinking in my mind how Wiinscher, who was a
good-natured, humorous man, would laugh when I told him of this dream.
Still thinking on it I hear Wunscher's voice scolding outside, just under my
window. I sit up in my bed at once and listen, but cannot underatand his
words. What can the brewer want 1 I thought, and I know for certain that
I was much vexed with him, that he should make a disturbance in the night,
o.s I felt convinced that his affairs might surely have waited till the morrow.
Suddenly he comes into the room from behind the linen press, steps with
long strides past the bed of my wife and the child's bed ; wildly gesticulating
with his arms all the time, as his habit was, he called out, "What do you say
to this, Herr Oberamtmann 1 This afternoon at five o'clock I have died."
Startled by this information, I exclaim, "Oh, that is not true I" He re-
plied: "Truly, as I tell you; and, what do you think 1 They want to bury
mealready on Tuesday afternoon at two o'clock," accentuating his assertions
all the while by his gesticulations. During this long speech of my visitor, I
examined myself as to whether I was really awake and not. dreaming.
I asked myself: Is this a hallucination 1 Is my mind in full possession
of its faculties 1 Yes, there is the light, there the jug, this is the mirror and
this the brewer ;-and I came to the conclusion: I am awake. Then
the thought occurred to me, What will my wife think if she awakes and sees
Z
Digitized by Google
342 ·A Defence of Pholntasm.s of the Dead. [Ja.n.31,
the brewer in our bedroom 1 In this fear of her waking up I turn round to
my wife and to my grcat relief I see from her face, which is turned towards
me, that she is still asleep j but she looks very pale. I say to the brewer.
" Herr Wiinscher, we will speak softly, so that my wife may not wake up, it
would be very disagreeable to her to find you here." To which Wiinscher
answered ill a lower and calmer tone. " Don't be afraid, I will do 110 harm
to your wife." Things do happen indeed for which we find no explanation-
I thought to myself, and said to Wiinscher: "If this be true, that you have
died, I am sincerely sorry for it j I will look after your children." Wiinscher
stepped towards me, stretched out his arms and moved his lips as though he
would embrace me, therefore I said in a threatening tone, and looking stead-
fastly at him with frowning brow: "Don't come so near, it is diaagreeable
to me," and lifted my right arm to ward him off', but before my arm reached
him the apparition had vanished. My first look was to my wife to see if she
were still asleep. She was. I got up and looked at my watch, it was IlCven
minutes past twelve. My wife woke up and asked me : "To whom did you
speak so loud just now 1" "Have you understood anything 1" I said.
"No," she answered and went to sleep again. .
I impart this experience to the Society for Psychical Research, in the
belief that it may serve as a new proof for the real existence of telepathy. I
must further remark, that the brewer had died that afternoon at five o'clock
and was buried on the following Tuesday at two.-With great respect,
KARL DIGNOWITY,
Dober and Pause, Landed Proprietor.
Schlesien,
December 12th, 1889.
The usual time for burial in Germany, adds FraiUein Schneller, is three
days after death. This time may be prolonged, however, on application.
There are no speciallwuTs fixed.
In conversation FraUlein S. described her brother-in-law as a man of
strong practical sense and of extremely active habits.
'Ve have received the "Sterbeurkunde" from the" Standesbeamte"
Siegismund, Kreis Sagan, certifying that Karl Wiinscher died Saturday,
September 15th, 1888, at 4.30 p.m., and was buried Tuesday, September
18th, 1888, at 2 p.m.
Herr Dignowity writes again, January 18th, 1890 :-
"Frau Wunscher told me that the time of the burial was settled in the
death-room immediately after Wiinscher's death, because relations at a
distance had to be summoned by telegram. Wiinscher had suff'ered from
inflammation of the lungs, which ended in spasm of the heart. During his
illness his thoughts had been much occupied with me, and he often wondered
what I should say if I knew how ill he was."
Finally, Frau Dignowity (born Schneller) writes from Pause, January
18th, 1890:-
.. I confirm that my husband told me on the morning of September 16th,
1888, that the brewer Wiinscher had given him intimation of his death."
Digitized by Google
~--.--
1890.] :A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. 343
CASE II. [M. ant. 13.]
In P1"OC«di1if18, Vol. V., p. 434, is given a case translated from P,Iyehi8c1le
Btl/dien, February,I889, pp. 67-69, which describes a communication made to
Mdlle. Emma Stramm concerning the death of a M. August DuvR.ne1. M.
Aksakof has kindly sent me additional matter of high interest bearing on
this case, which I here tranBlR.te from hiB letter dated May 9th, 1889 (new
style). It will be well first to reprint the case as it stood in PltJchilc1le
Btudie1l, February, 1889, pp. 67-69.
On January 19th, 1887 (says M. Aksakof), I received a visit from the
engineer Kaigorodoff, who resides in Wilna. He narrated to me the follow-
ing circumstances. He hR.d as governess for his children Mdlle. Emma
Stramm, a Swiss, from the town of Neufch1te1, who possessed the gift of
automatic writing. At a sc!R.nce held at nine o'clock on the evening of
January 15th, at the house of Herr Kaigorodoff, at Wilna, the following
communication was given in French in his presence. I have been shown the
original, and quote this from a copy of it. The medium, who was in her
normal state, asked :-
"Is Lydia here 1" (This was a personality which had manifested itself at
previous sittings.)
"No, Louisl is here, and wishes to impart a piece of news (une tIOUt'eZle)
to his sister."
" What is it 7..
.. A person of thy acquaintance passed awR.Y (est partie) about three o'clock
to-day."
" What am I to understand by this 1"
"That is to say,-he is dead."
"Who?"
" August Duvanel."
" What was his ilhless 1"
"The formation of II. clot of blood (d'nn engorgement de sany). Pray for
the redemption of his soul."
Two weeks later, Herr Kaigorodoff, who was again in Petersburg, showed
me a letter from David Stramm, the father of the medium, dated from
Neufch1tel, on January 18th, 1887 (new style) j thus written three days
after the death of Duvanel. This letter was received at Wilna on January
23rd. In it her father informs her of the event in the following words. I
copy them literally from the original :--
" My much loved daughter. • . . I will now tell thee a great piece
'Of news (une grande tIOlt~elle). August Duvane1 died on January 15th, about
three o'clock in the afternoon. It was, so to speak, a sudden death, for he
had only been ill a few hours. He was attacked by blood-clotting (engorge-
ment de sang) when he was at the bank. He spoke very little, and every-
thing that he said was for thee. • • • He commended himself to thy
prayers. These were bis last words."
1 The name of a deceased brother of the medium, who usually manifests at her
aea.noee. Louis died in 1869, aged 11 months. At the beginning of the seanoee, about
the end of 1886, he was the first to communicate, announcing binlself as hiB ai,ter's
., spirit protector."-A.A.
z 2
Digitized by Google
344 .A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead. [Jan. 311
The di1ference in time between Wilna and Switzerland is about an hour.
It would thus be four o'clock in Wilna when Duvanel's death occurred, and
five hours later this piece of news was communicated by automatic writing.
But who Wall Duvanel1 And why should his death be "a great piece of
news" for Mdlle. Emma Stramm 1 In reply to questions which I put
to him in writing, Herr Kaigorodoff gave me the following explanation:
"When Mdlle. Emma Stramm lived with her parents in Neufchll.tel,
this Herr Duvanel wanted to marry her. But he was met with a decided
refusal on the part of the young lady. As her parents, on the other hand,
were in favour of the marriage, and endeavoured to persuade her to consent
to it, she resolved to leave her fatherland and take a situation as a governess.
The last communication she had with DU\"lmel was some time before her
cieparture, in the year 1881. She did not keep up any correspondence with
him. She had seen Duvanel's family only two or three times in all. A year
after her departure he left Neufc1Ul.tel, and remained in Canton Zurich until
his death."
To this M. Aksakof adds, ill a letter to F. W. H. M. (May 9th, 1889):-
"I have delayed answering your letter of April lat, because on receiving
it I wrote to Colonel Kaigorodoff and to Mdlle. Emma Stramm for
further details, which seemed to me needful for the completion ofour critical
judgment on the Duvanel case. I have just received their letters, dated
April 16th and April 18th.
I will begin answering your questions.
(1) This case was published ill P,!!chische Stlldien, for February, 1889, but
it had been written by me in February, 1888, which explains my saying that
I had lately roceived it.
(2) I find in my book of memoranda a notice dated January 7th (19th) of
M. Kaigorodofl"s visit and his communication concerning the death of
Duvanel.
(3) M. Kaigorodoff is a military engineer, living at present at Grodno, It
seat of provincial Government in West Russia. In the autumn of 1886
M. Kaigorodoff endeavoured to hypnotise Mdlle. Emma, but BOon she
began to speak and write in mediumistic fashion. (M. Kaigorodoff was not
wholly a novice in Spiritualism, having been present, some 10 years earlier.
at a very elementary series of !Wances.) Automatic writing, however, seemed
to fatigue the medium, and the method of trance-utterance was usually pre-
ferred. 'l'he medium saw and described the [decessed] persons in whoso
name she spoke. M. Kaigorodoff asked questions in Russian, and the
medium answered in German or French. M. Kaigorodoff, who was a.
widower, naturally desired a personal and absolutely conclusive message
from his wife. She (the influence speaking through E.S. as Madame Kai-
gorodoft) replied that she could give such a message only by impre88ing the
medium during her ordinary sleep i and she effected her purpose by causing
the medium to soe, in a dream, a series of four scenes [tableaux] j which
Mdllo. Emma described to M. Kaigorodoff and in which he recognised the
perfect representation of an episode ill his married life. These dream-com-
munications form a special feature in tho mediumship of Mdlle. Stramm j the
8I\me subject being sometimes thus treated for a week continuously.
[On this point M. Aksakof adds, February 15th, 1890: "M. Kaigorodotr
Digitized by Google
----....
1890.] .A Defence of Phantasm8 of tlte Dead. 345
informB me of the following peculiarity of his wife's (he married MdlIe.
Strsmm as hiB Becond wife in 1889) :-During her ordinary sleep, one c:,n
enter into conversation with her. She continues to sleep, answering ques-
tions, and describing the fantastic dreams which Bhe sees. In her replies she
generally useB the third person. On awaking, she remembers nothing. If
during her Bleep M. Kaigorodoff makeB some passeB over her fnce she
immediately passes into magnetic (somnambulic) sleep; and the chlU"aCter of
her conversation entirely changes. In her ordinary Bleep •spirits' tlC1.'er
Appear on the Beene; in the secondary form of Bleep, always. A few
reverse passes, and the magnetic sleep giveB pInee, with a sigh, to the
ordinary Bleep."]
(4) As to your question whether the communications have or have not
included "many definite statements found to be untrue," [as is the case
with so many Bimilar Beries], M. Kaigorodoff cannot recollect any such state-
ments. As an instance to the contrary, he reminded me of a prediction made
March 2nd, 1887, of which he informed me in hiB letter of August 25th, 1887
(Btillin my. hands). It was announced to MdlIe. E. that her Bister (who iB in
Switzerland) would be delivered in five months of a boy, who would not live
more than three or four years. Mdlle. Emma did not even know at the
time that her sister was expecting a baby. In fact the sister wasdelivered of
a boy at the end of July, 1887.1
I pass on to the case of Duvanel, which needs some details to complete it.
The first question which presents itself to the mind is as follows: "What
proof have we that Mdlle. Emma had not received a telegram announcing
Duvanel's death 1" I asked this question of M. Kaigorodoff by letter; I
give an abstract of his reply.
(1) The death of Duvanel took place (by Wilna time) at about 4.30 p.m.
On that day, from 7 p.m. till the beginning of th~ seance, ?rIo Kaigorodoff, as
he positively remembers, was constantly with Mdlle. E. ; and even supposing
that the telegram had been despatched half an hour after A.D.'B death (!),
nevertheless it would have been impoasible for a telegram sent from
Switzerland to have been received and delivered at Wilna in the shortinterval
between 5 and 7 p.m. On that day, moreover. Mdlle. E. did not leave tho
house after 3 p.m.
(2) All Mdlle. E.'s correspondence was addressed, care of Colonel Kaigoro-
doff.
(3) The telegram could not have been received without the knowledge of
the servants and the children. There would have been no reason for keeping
it secret.
(4) The relations of Mdlle. E. are poor persona, and there was not suffi-
cient motive for the immediate communication of this piece of news.
But might not a telegram have been sent by the friends or family of
Duvanel1 Considering that all relations between Duvanel and MdlIe. E. had
been broken off in 1881, Ruch a telegram would have had no reasonable
object. Moreover, in my letter to Mdlle. E., I had begged her to tell me
what was the exact place of D.'s death and whether those who lived with
1 One prediction haa since proved erroneous; viz.,-that Madame Kaigorodoff
hel"d8lf would have a boy;-whereas her child is a girl.
Digitized by Google
346 .A Defe1lCe of Pltantamna of tlte Dead. [Jan. 31,
him could ha\'e known her address. To tbis she replied in her letter of April
16th, 1889. "D. died in a little hamlet of the Canton of ZUrich, called, I
think, Hircbe, but I am not sure, for my brother [from whom I inquired)
had himself forgotten the name. D. lived alone, and had only one brother,
who lived in another town." Inlpoasible, therefore, that a telegram should
have been despatched immediately from that quarter.
When M. Kaigorodoff came to see me the second time, in January, 1887,
with the letter of Mdlle. E.'s father, I was struck with the identity of tbe ex·
pression, "un engorgement de BBDg," employed in the trance-message,
which was in French, and also in the father's letter, which was likewise
in French, to explain the cause of D.'s death. This identity of phrase
appeared very strange, not to say suspicious. I drew }I. Kaigorodoff's
attention to it, and begged him to ask the medium about it, as soon as a
adance gave the opportunity. This identity of exprcuion suggested a
curious action of telepathy.
This is what M. Kaigorodoff's letter, just received, says on the subject :-
"On the day after the seance of January 3rd (15th), 1887, Aldlle. E.,
not expecting to receive a letter from her father with the confirmation of
the fact of D.'s death, wrote to her sister in Switzerland, stating that she had.
had a vision as though D. were dead, and aSking whetber this was really the
case. The dream was an expedient used because Emma's relations had n()
knowledge of Spiritualism, still less of E.'s personal proceedings in that
direction. The letter of Mdlle. E.'s sister arrived 10 days after her father's
letter. The sister, not knowing that their father had already announced D.'s
death. desired to hide the fact from her [for a reason presently to be
shown] and answered that D. was not dead, but gone to America."
M. Kaigorodoff, after a six weeks' absence, returned to Wilna at the
beginning of March, 1887. At the first s~ance held, early in March, he
begged of Louis (the controlling spirit) to explain the contradiction between
the letters of the father and the sister of Mdlle. E. touching the death of
Duvanel. The medium was entranced, aud spoke in the name of Louis. M.
Kaigorodoff took notes, and this is word for word the answer which was
given :--
" He is dead; only his sister does not wish that she should know of his
death, because it was not of a stoppage of blood (engQl"gfment) as I had.
written." (The messago of January 3nI (15tb), 1887, had been given by
automatic writing, in French.) "I could not tell the truth frankly (dirute-
ment), for hor health would have been affected by it."
" Whero and how, thon, did he die 1"
" Ho died in tho Canton of Ziirich ; but he killed himself, and she must
not know it. She must remain ignorant of this, for if she learns, even in·
directly, of his self-inflicted death, her health may suffer. You must not
speak to her of the matter, for she suspects the truth."
"How doos it happen,then,that the identical expresmon,atoppage of blood,
is found both in your message and in the father's letter 1"
" It is I who inspired him with that expre88ion."
As you perceive, the case becomes increasingly complicated and interest-
ing. In point of fact, Mdlle. E., Bomo days after the message of January 3rd
(15th) did in fact seo in a dream Duvanel covered with blood (tll8anglanU).
Digitized by Google
1890.] .A Defence of Phantasm8 of the Dead. 347
The contradictory statements in the letters (of her father and sister) led her
to suspect tho.t the truth was being concealed from her, and that there had
really been a suicide. Itwu only in the autumn of 1887,when Mdlle. E. made
a journey to Switzerland to see her relations, that she learnt all the truth,
confirming the second meBBage.
The fears of Louis and of her relations u to the bad effect which the
news of the suicide might have upon Mdlle. E. were ill fact exaggersted. For
Mdlle. E. had left Switzerland in 1881, and up till the message of January
3rd (15th), 1887, had received no news ofDuvanel. Some time after Mdlle.
E.'s departure Duvanelleft NeufchA.tel for Geneva,where hewu employed at
a bank j-which explains thephrueinthe father'sletter,sayingthat D. had died
of a stoppage of blood" while he was at the bank." But of late he had lived
in a little hamlet of the Canton of Ziirich. All this Mdlle. Emma learnt on
her visit to her relations.
Aft~r all these facts, however, the problem u to the possibility of a tele-
pathic influence from the parents of Mdlle. E. is not yet decided. To clear
up this point we must know the exact day when the father of Mdlle. E.
learnt the death of Duvanel, and we must know the details he then heard.
If Mdlle. E.'s relations had heard the news of D.'s suicide on the very day of
hisdeath j and if it had been decided in family discussion that they would
conceal from herthe manner of his death, and adopt the expression "stop-
page of blood" j-then one might still conjecture that there had been a tele-
pathic transmission of thought.
But the father's letter was Wl"itten Janusry 18th, and, as Mdlle. E. says
[in her letter of April 16th, 1889], it is probable that the meeting ill the tmin
[when the father heard of Duvallel's death from DuvaneI's brother] took
place on the 17th, and thus afte,· the Hitting of January 3rd (15th). In that
case, if telepathy there were, it would be needful to seek the inspirer (tho
" agentprOlJQCateUT !") in aome factor outside the minds of Mdlle. E. or her
relations.
But this pl"Obability is not enough j and the eBSential question as to the
day when Mdlle. E.'s relations learnt the death of Duvanel is not yet deter-
mined. I will write again on this point to the ci-de1:ant Mdlle. Stmmm,
who is now Madame Kaigorodoff j for the Colonel in his last letter to me
announces his marriage with Mdlle. Emma Stramm. I will beg her to uk
her father to fix u precisely as poBBible the day of his meeting with Duvanel's
brother. The reply shall be sent to you at once.
Thus, then, we have in this case of Spiritualistic communication: (1) the
newsof a death at a distance; (2) the manner of death j (3) the place of
death; all unknown to the medium."
On June 24th (July 6th) 1889, M. Aksakof again Wl"ote to me u follows :
.. M. Kaigorodoff has had the kindness to send me in original the letter of
Madame Kaigorodo1l"s sister. I enclose a copy. As you perceive, the father
learnt the news of Duvanel's death on January 17th, two days, therefore,
after the death itself, and two days after the news of the death wu received
at Wilna in RUBBia. The circumstance that this news wu heard by M.
Stramm in a merely accidental way, and only on the day of the funeml,
proves that in fact all relations between Duvanel and the Stmmm family had
been suspended. The letter ofMdlle. Bertha is dated from Rochefort; that ia
Digitized by Google
348 ~ Defence of Phanta.anl8 of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
a small town, at 20 minutes' railway journey from Neufchatel ; and it is there,
strictly speaking, and not at Neufchll.tel, that the Stramm family reside.
Copy of part of Mdlle. Bertha Stramm's letter to her sister, Madame
Kaigorodotr, dated Rochefort, June 16th, 1889.
"Duvanel died January 15th, and papa learnt the news on the 17th, for
Ite met Duvanel's brother, who was setting out for the funeral. The brother
was to leave for America a few days later. It is I who have recollected this,
by searching my memory. for papa is old and feeble and does not now
remember anything of the matter. I cannot tell you the name of the
village where the death occurred."
The principal points in this case may be summed up as follows !-
Duvanel dies by his own hand in a SwiBB village, where he lives alone,
having no relations except a brother living at a distance, whom Mdlle.
Stramm had never seen (as M. Kaigorodotr informs us in a letter of May,
1890).
l\fdlle. Stramm's father does not hear of Duvanel's death till two days
later.
Five hours after Duvanel's death an automatic meBBage announcing it is
written at Wilna in RuBBis, by Mdlle. Stramm, who had certainly received
no news of the event.
From what mind are we to suppose that this information came 1
Thought-transference from survivors seems here out of the question ;-
unleBB it be in the form suggested above, of a kind of impersonal thought-
transference,-a leaking-out of any fact known to any living mind in such a
way that any other mind may become aware of it.
Leaving aside this extreme view, we may next attempt to account for
Mdlle. Stramm's meBBage on the theory of latency. We may suppose that
the telepathic message came from the dying man, but did not rise into
consciousneBB until an opportunity was afforded by Mdlle. Stramm's sitting
down to write automatically.
But to this interpretation there is an objection of a very curious kind.
The meBBage written by Mdlle. Stramm was not precisely accurate. Instead
of ascribing Duvanel's death to suicide it ascribed it to a stoppage of blood,
" un engorgement de sang...
And when M. Stramm, three days after the death, wrote to his daughter
in RuBBis to tell her of it, he also used the same expreSBion, ••un engorgement
de sang," thus disguising the actual truth in order to spare the feelings of his
daugbter, who had formerly refused to marry Duvanel, and who (as her
father feared) might receive a painful shock if she learnt the tragic nature of
his end. There was, therefore, '8 singular coincidence between the automatic
Bnd the normally-written meBBBge as to the death i-a coincidence which
looks as though the same mind had been at work in each instance. But
that mind cannot have been M. Stramm's, as ho was not aware of Duwners
death at the time when the first meBBage was written.
And here we must consider the explanation of the coincidence given by
the intelligence which controlled tho automatic ,vriting. That intelligence
aBBerted itself to bo a brother of Mdlle. Strnmm's, who died some yelU'll
before. And this .. Louis .. further BBBerted that he had himself influenced
Digitized by Google
1890.] A Defence of PhantaSTIl8 of the Dead. 349
M. Stramm to make use of the same euphemistic phrase, with the object of
avoiding a shock to Mdlle. Stramm ; for which purpose it was needful that
the two messages should agree in ascribing the death to the same form of
sudden illness.
Now if this be true, and the message did indeed come from the deceased
"Louis," we have an indication of continued existence, and continued
knowledge of earthly affairs, on the part of a person long dead.
But if we consider that the case, as presented to us, contains no proof of
"Louis'" identity,-so that" Louis" may be merely one of those arbitrary
names which the automatist's sub-conscious intelligence seems so prone to
assume; then we must suppose that Duvanel was actually operative on two
occasions after death,-first inspiring in Mdlle. Stramm the automatic
message, and then modifying in M. Stramm the measage which the father
might otherwise bave sent.
CASE III. [M. ant. 14.]
"PSYCBISCHE STUDIEN," December, 1889 (pp. 572-577).
From one of a series of articles by the editor, the Hon. Alexander Aksakof.
The sub-title of the section from which the following is extracted
being :-" The identity of the personality of the deceased confirmed by the
imparting of facta known only to the deceased, or which could only have
been communicated by him."
I now return to my subject, and conclude this section with a case which
I have received at first hand. It belongs not to the category of fads
'Which are known only to the deceased, but to the category of those which could
only be imparted by the deceased, for it relates to a political secret concern-
ing a living person, which was revea~ed by an intimate friend of that living
person for the purpose of saving him. I shall set forth this case in all
possible detail, because I consider it a most convincing one in support of the
SpirituliliBtic hypothesis. I will even expre88 myself still more strongly. I
consider that it affords as absolute a proof of identity as it is possible for
evidence of this kind to present.
My readers are already acquainted with my sister-in-law, Mrs. A. von
Wies1er, from the part she took in the family seances held with me in the
years 1880-1883, after the decease of my wife. She has an only daughter,
Sophie, who at the time of those seances was completing her studies. She
had taken no part, either at our seances or at any others, and she had not
read anything about Spiritualism. Her mother also had not joined in any
seances except our own. One evening in October, 1884, during the visit of a
distant relative, the conversation turned upon Spiritualism, and in order to
please him a trial with the table was arranged. The seance, however, gave
no satisfactory result. It only showed that the two ladies were able to get
something. On Tuesday evening, ,January 1st, 1885, Mrs. von Wiesler
being alone with her daughter, in orderto divert her mind from BOme matters
which made ber anxious, proposed to hold a little seance. An alphabet was
written out on a sheet of paper, a saucer with a black line as pointer served
as a planchette, and, behold, the name Andreas was indicated. This was
quite natural, for Andreas was tho name of Sophie's father, the deceased
husband of Mrs. "on Wiesler. 'l'he communication presented nothing re-
Digitized by Google
350 .A Defence of Pltantasms of tlte Dead. [Jan. 31.
markable, but it WIUI nevertheless resolved to continue the BtSances once a
week, on every Tuesday. For three weeks the character of the communica-
tions remained unchanged. The name Andreas was continually repeated.
But on the fourth Tuesday-January 22ud-in place of the customary
name, Andreu, the name "Schum" was spelt out to the great astonish-
ment of both sitters. Then, by quick and precise movements of the pointer.
these words were added ;-
cc It is given to thee to save Nikolaus."
.. What does this mean 1" aaked the astonished ladies.
.. He is compromised as Michael was, and will like him go to ruin. A
band of good-for-nothing fellows are leading him astray."
.. What can be done to counteract it. 1"
.. Thou must go to the Technological Institute before 3 o'clock, let
Nikolaus be called out, and make all appointment with him at his house."
This being all addressed to the young lady, Sophie, she replied that
it would be difficult for her to carry out these directions on account of the
slight acquaintanceship which existed between her and Nikolaus's family•
.. Absurd ideas of propriety! " was " Schur&'s " indignant reply.
.. But in what way shall I be able to influence him 1" aaked Sophie.
.. Thou wilt speak to him in my name."
.. Then your convictions no longer remain the same 1"
I I Revolting error! " was the reply.
I must now explain the meaning of thiR mysterious communication•
.. Schum" is the Russian pet name for Alexandrine. Nikolaus and Michael
were her cousins. Michael, quite a young man, had unfortunately allowed
himself to become entangled by the revolutionary ideas of our Anarchists or
Socialists. He WIUI arrested, tried, and condemned to imprisonment at a
distance from St. Petersburg, where he lost his life in an attempt to escape.
"Scbura" loved him dearly, and fully sympathised with his political convic-
tions, making no secret of it. AfterIlis death, which oecurred in September,
1884, she was discouraged in her revolutionary aspirations, and ended her
life by poison, at the age of 17, on the 15th of .January, 1885, just one week
before the aeance above described. Nikolaus, Michael's brother, was then a
student at the Technological Institute.
Mrs. von Wiesler and her daughter were aware of these circum-
stances, for they had long been acquainted with "Schura's" parents, and
with those of her cousins, who belong to the best seciety of St Petersburg.
It will be obvious that I call1lot publish the names of these families. I have
also changed those of the young people. The acquaintanceship was, however,
far from being intimate. They saw each other occasionally, but nothing
more. Later I will give further details. We will now continue our narrative.
Naturally, neither Mrs. von Wiesler nor her daughter knew anything as
to the views or secret conduct of Nikolaus. The communication was just as
unexpectedas it wasimportsnt. It involved a great l·esponsibility. Sophie's
position WIUI a very difficult one. The literal carrying out of .. Schum's ..
demands was, for a young lady, simply impossible, merely from considerations
of social propriety. What right could she have, on the ground of simple
acquaintanceship, to interfere in family affairs of so delicate a character 1
Besides, it might not be true; or, quite simply and most pro bab •
Digitized by Google
1890.] .A Defence of Phanta8m8 of the Dead. 351
Nikolaus might deny it. What position would she then find herself in 1
Mrs. von Wiesler knew only too well, from the stSances she had taken part in
with me, how little dependence can be placed on Spiritualistic communica-
tions. She counselled her <laughter, in the first place, to convince herself of
" Schurs's .. identity. This advice was followed without any hesitation as
one way out of the difficulty.
On the following Tuesday "Schura" manifested at once, and Sophie
asked for a proof of her identity, to which •• Schura " forthwith replied :-
.. Invite Nikolaus, arrange a seance, and I will come."
It will be seen from this reply that" Schura," who during her life had
learnt to despise the conventionalities of society, as is the custom among the
Socialists, remained true to her character, and again demanded what was
an impossibility. Nikolaus had never been in Mrs. von Wiesler's house.
Sophie then asked for another proof of her identity, without Nikolaus
being brought in at all, and requested that it might be a convincing one.
" I will appear to thee," was the reply.
"How1"
" Thou wilt see."
A few days later Sophie was returning hOUle from a soiree; it was nearly
"a.m. She was just retiring, and was at the door between her bedroom
and the dining-room, there being no lighta in the latter, when she BaW on
the wall of the dining-room,in sight of the door at which she stood,a luminous
round spot, with, as it were, shoulders. This lasted for two or three seconds,
and disappeared, ascending towards the ceiling. Sophie immediately aBSured
herself that it was not the reflection of any light coming from the street.
At the seance on the following Tuesday, an explanstion of thisl\ppearance
being asked for, "Schurs ,. replied:-
" It was the outline of a head with shoulders. I .cannot appear more
diatinctly. I am still weak."
Many other details. which I have passed over, tended to convince Sophie of
the reality of .. Schura's" identity, yet she could not bring herself to carry
out that which .. Schura .. desired her to do. She therefore proposed as a
suitable compromise that she should acquaint Nikolaus's parenta with what
had occurred.
This proposal aroused .. Schura's" strongest displeasure, expreBSed by
violent movements of the saucer, and by the sentence:-
"That will lead to nothing" i-after which disparaging epitheta foIlo,ved.
impossible to repeat here, especially applicable to persons of weak and
irresolute character, with whom the energetic and decisive" Schurs " had
no patience-epitheta which are not found in dict.ionaries, but which were
expressions used by .. Schurs " in her life-time, and characteristic of her.
This was confirmed in the sequel.
NeverthelOBS Sophie continued to hesitate, and at each succeBSive
Hance •• Schura" insisted more and more imperatively that Sophie
must act at once. This is very important to notice, as we shall see later.
This want of resolution on the part of Sophie was ascribed by " Schura .. to
the influence of Mrs. von Wiesler. From the beginning" Schurs .. had
seemed to bear a grudge against Mrs. von Wiesler. From the first seanco
ahe addressed Sophie only. She never permitted Mrs. von Wiesler to ask a.
Digitized by Google
352 .A Defence of PhantwmUl of the Deall. [Jan. 31,
question. Whenever she attempted to do so, Rhe met her with a-"Be
silent-be silent!" Whereas in addressing Sophie she overwhelmed her
with the tenderest expressions.
How great was the astonishment and consternation of the ladies, when at
the sMnce on the 26th of February the fil"llt words were ;-
"It is too late. Thou wilt repent it bitterly. The pangs of remorse will
follow thee. Expect his arrest I"
These were "Schura's" last words. From this time she was silent. A
s~ance was attempted on the following Tuesday, but there was no result.
The sMnces of Mrs. von Wiesler and her daughter were from that time
entirely given up.
While these seances were being held, Mrs. von Wiesler naturally kept me
informed of what transpired, and consulted with me as to what was to be
done in view of the extraordinary character of "Schura's" requests. Some
time after they had ceased, Mrs. von Wiesler, to satisfy her own conscience
and to comfort her daughter, resolved to communicate the whole episode
to the parents of Nikolaus. They paid no attention to it. Nothing
was elicited that allY fault could be found with. The family were
quite satisfied in regard to Nikolaus' conduct. But it is important to bear
in mind the fact that these Spiritualistic communications were made known
to the parents before the final issue. When during the remainder of the
year everything went on happily, Sophie became fully convinced that all the
communications were only lies, and formed a resolution that she would
never again occupy herself with Spiritualistic seances.
Another year passed without any special event. But on the 9th of March,
1887, the secret police -suddenly searched Nikolaus's rooms. He waa
arrested in his own house, and within 24 hours was exiled from St. Peters-
burg. It came out later that his crime was taking part in anarchical
assemblies--assemblies which were held in the months of January and
February, 1885, exactly corresponding with the time when "Schura"
was insisting that steps should then be taken to dissuade Nikolaus from
taking part in such meetings. Only now were the communications of
" Schura " estimated at their true value. The notes which Mrs. von Wiesler
had made were read again and again by the families both of "Sehura" and of
Nikolaus. " Schura's " identity in all those manifestatiolls was recognised
as incontestably demonstrated, in the first place, by the main fact in
relation to Nikolaus, by other intimate particulars, and also by the
totality of the features which characterised her personality. This mournful
occurrence feIllike a fresh thunderclap on Nikolaus's family, and they had
only to thank God that the errors of the young man were not followed
by more fatal results.
In order to estimate this incident aright it is of great importance to
establish the relations which existed between the two young ladies. I have
requested Madame and Mdlle. Von Wiesler to give me on this, as on the
previous points, a written memorandum in full detail; and from that memo-
randum I extract what follows [somewhat abridged here] ;-
"In December, 1880, Madame Von Wiesler and her daughter paid a
Christmas visit to Schura's grandfather, Senator N., where Sophie saw Schum
for the first time. Sophie was then about 13 years old, and Schura even
Digitized by Google
1890.] .A Defence of PhantaMnB of the Dead. 353
younger. Sophie was astonished to see Schura's writing-table covered with
books [and had a talk with her about favourite authors]. The two girls
often saw each other at a distance in the recreation-room of their school
during the winter, but Schura was soon transferred to another school. [They
met once at a country-house without exchanging a word, and saw each other
once acroBB a theatre. Sophie, in fact, had had one childish talk with
Schum; Madame Von Wiesler had never had any real talk with her.)
Hence it is clear that the relations of these ladies with Schura were of the
most distant kind, and that they could not know anything of her political
secrets.
CASE IV. [G. 193.]
From PsychiscM St1U.lien, March, 1889 (p. 131).
An extract from an article by the editor (the Hon. Alexander Aksakof)•
.. I am personally acquainted with the following case :-My friend and
fellow student at the Lyceum, Privy Councillor (Geheimrath) Baron
Konstantin K., told me, twenty years ago, that at the time of the death of
his uncle, Baron Paul K., at Warschau, his will could not be found, though
it was thoroughly searched for; and that it was discovered in a secret drawer
(Fache), entirely in consequence of a communication received by Prince
Emile Wittgenstein, in which the place was described."
In PsycM8Che Studien for December, 1889 (pp. 568.9), M. Aksakof gives
further particulars as follows :-
.. Since the previous notice of this case, I have made the acquaintance of
Paul von Korf, a son of Baron von Korf, who resides in the Port-stl'888e.
St. Petersburg. He has given me the following account of the circum-
stances :-
" His father, General Paul von Korf, died at Warschau on April 7th, 1867.
It was known that he had made a will, but after his death it could not be
found. In the mont.h of July, 1867, his sister, the BaroneBB Charlotte von
Wrangel, was living with her sister-in-law, Madame D. von Obuchow, in the
town of Plock (pronounced Plozk), not far from Warschau. Her mother,
the widow of General von Korf, was travelling abroad; and in ker mother's
absence she was entrusted with the opening of her correspondence. Among
the letters thus received and opened was one from Prince Emile von
Wittgeustein (also abroad) addressed to the widow of General von Korf, in
which he informed her that a spiritualistic cOD1D1unication had been received
by him in the name of herdeceased husbsnd, indicating the place where his will
would be found. The BaroneBB von Wrangel, who knew how much trouble
the absence of this will had given to her elcler brother [Baron Joseph KorfJ
who was engaged in the administration of the property, and who was at that
time in Warschau, went at once, with her sister-in-law, to Warschau, to
inform him of the important contents of the letter of Prince von Wittgen-
stein. Her brother's first words were that he had just found the will ; and
when the letter of Prince von Wittgenstein was read, it was apparent, to
the astonishment of those present, that the place indicated in the spiritualistic
communication where the will would be found was precisely that in which
the Baron had at last found it.
Digitized by Google
354 .A Defence of Phantcurrns of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
"Baron Paul von Korf promised me that he would look for this letter of
Prince von Wittgenstein's, which he had in nis hand le88 than two years ago,
when arranging the family papers. But up to the present time he has not been
able again to find it. He fears it may have been unintentionally destroyed
with useless correspondence."
In a letter dated St. Petersburg, February 26th, 1890, M. Aksakof adds
the following particulars, with two letters, of which translations are here
given :-
I. Original letter from Baron Paul Korf (son of the Baron Korf whose
will is concerned) to M. Aksakof, countersigned by Baron Paul's sister,
Baroness Charlotte Wrangel, and testifying to the exactne118 of the fact as
stated in Psychiache Studien, 1888, p. 568.
"Petersburg, January 29th, 1890•
.. SIR,-I have read with great interest your communication, inserted in
Paychiach,e Studien (p. 568), concerning the will of my late father. The facts
are there related with perfect accuracy. I am afraid that I burnt the letter
of Prince Emile Wittgellstein about a year ago, when I W88 arranging the
papers of my late father, which were at his country seat.-Accept, &c.,
"(BARON) PA.UL KORF."
" I add my signature to that of my brother, to confirm the contents of
his letter. "BARONESS C. WRANGEL, NO BA.RONESS KoRP."
II. Copy of a letter from Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein, publiahed
in the work, Souvenir. et Currespondance du Prince Emile de SaYII.-Wittgetl.tei,,,"
Berlebollrg (Paris, 1889), V01. II., p. 365.
"Warsaw, JvJyl7th, 1867.
.. It seems an age, my dear parents, since I have had any news of you;
my mother's last letter was dated June 5th. I have occupied myself much
with Spiritualiam of late, and my mediumistic faculties have developed
themaelves in an astonishing way. I write often with great facility in various
kinds of writing; I have had direct communications from the spirit which
haunts Berlebourg, a woman of our family who killed herself 102 years ago.
I liave, moreover, obtained a very singular result. One of my frienda,
Lieut.-Geneml Baron de Korf, deceased some months since, manifested
himself to me (without my having thought of him the least in the world), to
-enjoin upon me to indicate to his family the place where his will had been
maliciously hidden; that is to say, in a chest of drawers in the house where
he died. I did not know that the family were looking for this will, and had
not found it. Well, they found it in the very place which the spirit had
indicated to me. It is a document of great importance for the management
of his property, and for the settlement of questions which will arise when
his children attain their majority. Here are facts which can mnd criticism.
"EMILE WrrroENSTEIN."
III. Prince Emile Wittgenstein died in 1878, at Tegernsee, in Bavaria.
IV. As to the date of the letter of Prince Sayn.Wittgenstein to the
widow of Baron Korl. Here is what I have been able to learn in a last
interview with his son, Baron Paul Korf. The marriage of his daughter,
Digitized by Google
1890.] .A Defence of Plumtasms of the Dead. 355
Barone88 Charlotte Korl, with Baron Wrnngel took place at Warsaw, June
17th, 1867. A week after that event the Barone88 Wrangel left, with her
sister-in-law, Madame Obuchow, for the town of Plock, and her mother
went abroad. At that date the will had not been found. And since the
letter of Prince Emile Wittgellstein to his parents, in which he informs them
of the finding of the will by spiritual communication, is dated July 17th, 1867,
it follows that the letter of Prince Emile Wittgenstein to the widow of Baron
Korf, enclosing that communication, and consequently the communication
itself must have been received between June 17th and July 17th, 1867.
V. As to the place where the will was found. I asked Baron Paul Korf:
.. Is it a fact that the will was found •ill a cheat of dra1oer.' (armoire) as was
predicted in the communication 1" He answered: .. That is what both my
sister and I heard."
VI. The elder son of Baron Korl who busied himself at Warsaw with the
affairs of the inheritance was uamed Baron Joseph Korl, and has since died.
CASE V. [So 3.]
For the following case also I am indebted to M.. Aksakof :-
THE PiRWOUINB CASB.
Docllmen.t I.-Copy of report of seance held November 18th, 1887, in the
house of M. Nartzeft', at Tambof, Russia.
Present: M. A.. Nartzeft' [landed proprietor, belonging to the Russian
nobility, in the Government of Tambof]; Madame A. Slepzof [aunt of M.
NartzeffJ; Madame Ivanof [M. Nartzetrs housekeeper]; M. N. Touloucheft'
[official physician of the Municipality of Tambof].
The sitting began at 10 p.m. at a table placed in the middle of the room,
by the light of a night-light placed on the mantelpiece. All doors closed.
The left hand of each was placed on the right hand of his neighbour, and
each foot touched the neighbour's foot, so that during tho whole of the
sitting all hands and feet were under control. Sharp raps were heard in the
floor, and afterwards in the wall and the ceiling, after which the blows
sounded immediately in the middle of the table, as if someone had struck it
from above with his fist; and with such violence, and so often, that the
table trembled tho whole time.1
M. Nartzeft' asked, "Can you answer rationally, giving three raps for
yes,. one for no 1" " Yes." "Do you wish to answer by using the
alphabet 1" .. Yes." " Spell your name." The alphabet was repeated,
and the letters indicated by three raps-" Anastasie per~uine." .. I beg
you to say now why you have come and what you desire." .. I am a
wretched womau. Pray for me. Yesterday, during the day, I died at the
hospital. The day before yesterday I poisoned myself with matches." " Give
us some details about yourself. How old were you 1 Give a rap for each
year." Seventeen raps. "Who were you 1" "I was housemaid. I
poisoned myself with matches." ., Why did you poison yourself 1" •• I will
not say. I will say nothing more."
1 We cannot here dwell on these physical manifestations, which (it is hoped) will be
dealt with before 10Dg ina separate paper.
Digitized by Google
356 .A. Defence of Phantwrrns of the Dead. [Jan. 31,
After this, a heavy table which was near the wall, outside the chain of
bands, came up rapidly three times, towards the table round which the
chain was made, and each time it was pushed backwards, no one knew by
what means. Seven raps (the signal agreed upon for the close of the sitting)
were now heard in the wall; and at 11.20 p.m. the s6ance came to an end.
Signed, A. SLEPZOF, N. TOULOUCHBFF, A. NARTZEFF, A. IVANOF.
I certify that this copy is in complete accordance with the original.
A. NARTZEFF.
.Document I1.-The undersigned, having been present at the s6ance of
November 18th, 1887, at the house of M. A. N. Nartzeff, hereby certify
that they had no previous knowledge of the existence or the death of
Anastasie Pereliguine, and that they heard her name for the first time at
the abo,'e·mentioned s6ance.
N. P. TOULOUCHEFF, ALEXIS NARTZEFF, A. SLEPZOF, A.lvANoF.
Tambof, April 6th, 1890.
Document 1I1.-Letter of Dr. Touloucheff to M. A. Aksakof.
April 15th, 1890.
SIR,-At the sitting held at M. Nartzeff's house, Novembel' 18th,
1887, we received a communication from an intelligence giving the name of
Anastasie Pereliguine. She asked us to pray for her; and said that she had
poisoned herself with lucifer matches, and had died on the 17th of that
month. At the first moment I did not believe this j for in my capacity as
physicisn of the municipality I am at once informed by the police of all
cases of suicide. But since Pereliguine had added that her death had taken
place at the hOlpital j and lince at Tambof we have only one hORpital, that
of the "IDBtitutioDB de Bienfaisance," which is in no way within my official
lurvey, and whose authorities, in luch caBel as thil, thelDBelvel lend for th.,
police or the magistrate ;-1 sent a letter to my colleague, Dr. Sundblatt,
the head physician of this hospital. Without explaining my reason I simply
asked him to inform me whether there had been any recent case of luicide
at the hospital, and, if so, to give me the name and particulars. I have
already sent you a copy of his reply, certified by Dr. Sundblatt's own
signature. The original is at M. Nartzeff's house, with the protocols of the
s6ances.
Tambof, rue du Seminaire. N. TOULOUCHEFF.
DOC1,ment IV.-Copy of Dr. Th. Sundblatt's letter to Dr. Toulouche1f.
November 19th, 1887.
My DEAR COLLEAOUE,-On the 16th of this month I was on duty j and
on that day two patients were ndmitted to the hospital, who had poisoned
themselves with phosphorus. The first, Vera Kosovitch, aged 38, wife of
a clerk in the public service • • • was taken in at 8 p.m. j the second, a
servant in the insane ward [a part of the hospital], Anastasie Pereliguine,
aged 17, was taken in at 10 p.m. This second patient had swallowed,
besides an infusion of boxes of matches, a glass of kerosine, and at the time
of her admi88ion was already very ill. She died at 1 p.m. on the 17th, and
Digitized by Google
l890.] .A Defence of Phantwrms of the Dead. 357
the post-mortem examination has been made to-day. Kosovitch died
yesterday, and the post-mortem is fixed for to-morrow. Kosovil;ch said that
she had taken the phosphorus in an acceBB of melancholy, but Periliguine
did not state her reason for poisoning herself. .
TH. SUNDBLA.'l'T.
Copy of letter certified by Th. Sundblatt and Alexis Nartze1f.
Document V.-Letter of M. A. Nartze1f to M. Aksakof, May 16th, 1890.
[M. Nartze1f writes a letter in English and one in French, which I abridge
and combine.]
"In answerto your letter I inform you that myaunt's housekeeper is not a
housekeeper strictly speaking, but rather a friend of the family, having been
nearly 15 years with us, and possessing our entire confidence. She could
not have already learnt the fact of the suicide, as she has no relations or
friends in Tambof, and never leaves the house.
" The hospital in question is situated at the other end of the town, about
6 versts from my house. Dr. Sundblatt informs me, on the authority of
the proces-verbal of the inquest, that PeriIiguine was able to read and write.
[This in answer to M. Aksakof's inquiry whether the deceased could have
understood alphabetic communication.]
" Sittings were held at Tambof, April, 1885-0ctober, 1889, but in no other
instance were irrefutable proofs obtained. Generally the manifestations
were of a trivial character. Twice or thrice we received communications
apparently serious, but on inquiry these were found to be untrue.It •
It is remarkable that this veridical measage should have stood alone, but
its correctness obviously was not due to chance.
2 A
Digitized by Google
