{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robyn_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Robyn O NDE 6371","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robyn O NDE 6371  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robyn O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3113 Robyn O NDE 6371  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a passenger in a car traveling along a very twisty mountain road with a beautiful fiord on the right. Our car tire blew and we careened across the road and went off a 30-foot cliff. I remember hitting my head three times as the car tumbled over and over. Then I was floating and all was still and calm. There was no fear and in a way felt as if there had never been fear.  It was black, enormous and I was everything, everywhere.  I felt like I was huge and tiny at the same time. I felt embraced, cradled, but free and open. This huge/tiny expanded space filled me with comfort and belonging. I felt alive and joyful. I have heard others describe this as loved and while it seems more than that, I don't know another word to describe it, except maybe with 'God'.

I heard the driver calling my name and I started flying backward thru a tunnel. I traveled at great speed and distance and at the same time very, very slowly. I was more aware than I had ever been in my life.  I was totally me and totally all that was.  The tunnel was the most amazing thing I have ever seen/experienced in my life with lights of every color surrounding me, comforting me, delighting me, somehow infusing me.  I could feel the vibration of the colors and hear the music of each color and the colors were spinning all around me.  I was in the middle of the lights but part of the lights too.  It seemed like a very long, blissful, and peaceful time and it was so much more.

It was fascination, excitement, laughing, loving, funny, thoughtful, empathetic, and sad in a very sweet way, all at the same time. In a way like any wonderful emotion, I had ever experienced, but this time enjoyed to its fullest potential. Imagine this and then times it by a thousand or ten thousand and then you might be close to my interpretation of my experience.

It must have been seconds or at the most minutes, because as I woke it seemed as if the driver was just completing her sentence. I was upside down with my forehead in a glacial stream. My body was racked with pain, but I felt like the luckiest person in the world and 27 years later, I still do (and somehow I believe this for everyone uniquely and equally). I cannot fear death, for myself or for anyone. I had always had 'gifts'. Many of those were gone, but I had something more. I guess it was the comfort of knowing that I was okay and that I would always be okay no matter what was happening to my physical body. 

I also awoke with an amazing gift (I have a click in my head), initially I used it like a Geiger counter to find painful places in myself and others and put my hands there to provide relief/healing/support. Eventually I realized I could do more.  Now I am an intuitive and I hear my intuition and that of people working with me.  It took me years of learning how to use it, I continue to be amazed, and constantly learning more, but I always knew it was special.  I am not special, just unique like everybody else and I now know I always was even when I did not realize it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Sept 13, 1985'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. Direct head injury    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was in a glacier stream suffering from shock and a head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Only my friend calling me. She was still calling as I woke up. Her calling did catapult me backwards thru the tunnel.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I did feel like I was everything, everywhere.  Completely in tune with the universe and more than I have ever been or ever expected to be.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was moving backward thru the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was everything, everywhere

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was not seeing from my eyes but from my entire body which was as big as the horizon which was endless.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Intense, similar to narrative above

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See narrative above

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the floating place, I remember not only amazing light, but amazing dark: void, endless, intense and incredibly beautiful.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It is all that I have ever experienced, in a very positive way.  Love (again the wrong word) bliss, joy, sad, everything (not anger) was in every space (all of me and all of the universe and more)

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     That I and everybody were ok and unique and connected.  Everything is.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Not sure how to answer, I was flying backwards to my friend.  It did not feel like a choice, but equally it did not feel like it was against my will. It was incredibly peaceful.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Non practising catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't feel that God has any expectations of me, he accepts me and supports me just the way I am.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Strong Belief in a higher power, uncomfortable with organized religion

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I didn't really believe in God and now I do beleive in the more than God that I experienced and I beleive that for everyone/everything.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I didn't really believe in God and now I do believe more in the God that I experienced and I believe that for everyone/everything. Everyone is unique. No one is special.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I felt that I always existed and always had and always will (and maybe all at the same time)

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I  felt that I always existed and always had and always will (and maybe all at the same time)

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     My interpretation was of great knowledge of self and belongedness and peace and joy (etc).  God is a word that works (because I don't know another), but it felt like more to me. (than I expected as a catholic)

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know I will always be ok.  I know I am amazing and so is everything.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I knew I was unique and that everybody is unique, and that was the most important thing for me to know and to share.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The feeling of connectedness with the universe.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love (again the wrong word) bliss, joy, sad, everything (not anger) was in every space (all of me and all of the universe and more)

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I work as a spiritual healer and intuitive from the gifts I received upon awakening.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I think 95 percent of my current friends are on a spiritual (non-religious) quest.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are not words to explain the magnificence and scale.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Whenever I recall the experience, I am instantly a higher energy than is my norm.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am a psychic, healer, intuitive, gifted person with an audible click in my head that allows others to hear their own intuition and learn to trust it for themselves. I am clairaudient, clairsentient, clairvoyant and more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Every millisecond.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't remember who I first told. I think the doctor or my friends in the ambulance. I have always talked about the tunnel. I don't remember their reaction.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I am sure I had heard of it, but more for people who died and then were resuscitated.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was in incredible pain, but I felt incredibly lucky (not in a religious way).

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can still feel a little of it every time I think about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I can go to a tiny fraction of that place.  Some of my clients can join me there.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The feeling of connectedness with the universe.  My interpretation was of great knowledge of self and belonging and peace and joy, etc. God is a word that works (because I don't know another), but it felt like more than that to me (than I expected as a Catholic).  I felt that I always existed and always had and always will (and maybe all at the same time).

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I tried to turn this form in before and it timed out.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robyn_o_nde.html