{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rocky_t_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Rocky T. Possible NDE 9673","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rocky T. Possible NDE 9673  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rocky T. Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Second-person Possible NDE  						5205 Rocky T. Possible NDE 9673  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My son, Rocky, was adopted from Africa when he was almost 5. He didn’t understand normal life here in the states.  

  He went on a school field trip to a bowling lane with his elementary class. He got on the bus to return to school and fell asleep or passed out. On the way to the school the teacher tried waking him and couldn’t. She was very worried. She waited until they got back to school to do anything. She ran him into the office. Still, nobody  called 911. They paged my husband to come to the office. When my husband got to the office, Rocky was still unresponsive. My husband then tried waking him. He finally woke up. My husband knew something was not right, even as he brought him home to rest. We put him in our bed and I started talking to him. I asked about the field trip and he couldn’t remember anything about that day. Then I started asking him names of his friends who were with him on the field trip. He looked at me like he had no idea what I was talking about. I grabbed some pictures of his friends and he had no idea who they were. At first, I thought he was joking. But then, Rocky was not a joker like that.  I then asked Rocky what he remembered from that day. 

He said, 'Mom there was a man wearing all white who was taking me to this bright white room. In the room I saw all these other people with white clothes.  They surrounded this man.   

  I couldn’t ask if he knew them because he hadn’t met any of my grandparents that passed but I can guess those were the people surrounding him.  For him to tell me this I was shocked. I called his doctor right away but was told not to bring him in because he was doing ok. This happened on a Friday and by that Sunday he remembered his friends. I don’t think he ever remembered the field trip that day. I even have a picture from that day when he couldn’t remember. I think this is unique because he was from a totally different culture. He never learned anything of the bright lights, or all white surroundings and clothes.   
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 2016  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Was on the school bus returning to school from a field trip and the teachers couldn’t wake him up.   Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain.    I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   Not sure  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This was my son, so I’m not sure  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not sure  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The man in white took him through to a bright, white room  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     Bright white room  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A man in all white  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes.     The man in all white leading me  
  
Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?              

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  He doesn’t remember but I do  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    All the time we share  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     He told same story and his story never changed  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It happened  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No              				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rocky_t_possible_nde.html