{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robin_w_fde.html","mytitle":"Robin W FDE 4525","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robin W FDE 4525  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robin W FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2281 Robin W FDE 4525  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was 6:30 am, still dark, and I was driving to meet friends with whom I commuted to West Georgia College. I hit black ice, and my car careened out of control. 

At that point, I felt as if I was looking at the steering wheel turning one direction and then the other at a fast speed. I could see the steering wheel from above and see myself in the driver's seat. The most profound thing I remember is the sense of utter peace and joy - a feeling that is truly indescribable - and one I have never had since. It was a calm joy and happiness, as I watched from above. 

The next thing I remember is being back in my seat and saying in a loud voice, 'God, I'm not ready to go yet.' I remember vaguely going down an embankment and hitting a tree. Yet, I don't remember an impact, per se. I did not have a seat belt on. 

All I remember is being conscious that I was still gripping the steering wheel, but I was now in the passenger seat, not the driver's seat. The steering wheel was angled toward the passenger seat. I have no idea if I lost consciousness or not. I just remember thinking how weird is that, when I noticed I was in the other seat. The first action after that was to frantically look for my Saint Christopher's medal, then my purse. Then I climbed the hill to the road. It turned out my head had a small gash and blood was pouring down my face, but I didn't even know it until a passerby stopped their car and mentioned it. 

I looked back down the hill and my car was completely wrapped around a tree on the driver's side and I should not have survived. I know as clear as if it was yesterday that I was above my body and I can still see that steering wheel from above. That feeling that I experienced is something I shall never forget, nor do I want to. It was wonderful. It is a miracle I survived, though at the time, I did not really believe in miracles. I do now! The weirdest thing is that I am just under five feet tall, and I had a stick shift Capri. I have no idea how I got into the passenger's seat with my own seat up as far as it would go.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'January, 1976'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Other 'Car hit black ice, swerved out of control for what felt like 5 minutes, but in reality was under a minute, hit a tree, but had experience as car was swerving.'  At the time of the OBE, I felt I was going to die, but I had not hit the tree yet.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was above my body, looking down, it was extremely clear.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time definitely went slower.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see both the steering wheel and my body from above and also see out the window at the road. It was still semi-dark, however, but I do remember seeing the road as if it wasn't.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderful. It was the best, most restful feeling I've ever had, and the thing I remember most.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I wasn't religious before, growing up an Episcopalian; it was more rote than feeling. There was a monk at a Catholic Monastery near my house that I loved to visit. That was because I felt unconditional love from him. I became more aware of God and love in a religious sense from then on, rather than something my Mom made me do on Sunday.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I wasn't religious before, growing up an Episcopalian; it was more rote than feeling. There was a monk at a Catholic Monastery near my house that I loved to visit. That was because I felt unconditional love from him. I became more aware of God and love in a religious sense from then on, rather than something my Mom made me do on Sunday.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Right after I seemed to be back in my own body, I knew I had a purpose on this earth. Maybe that's why I became a teacher after that. I didn't have any idea what I really wanted to do before then.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I really love people. It's almost as if I can feel my depth and the depth of others. But not everyone feels that way. It's as if some folks I feel are deep spirits and some are shallow. I don't even have to talk with them to feel it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I became far more compassionate and outwardly loving. I seem to be able to feel people's emotions. It's hard to describe. It's just an innate sense of what folks are feeling, almost as if I can feel their spirits - something I didn't have a clue about prior to that. These senses have increased as I get older.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling was one that lets me know death is nothing to be feared, because it felt so peaceful - almost like a high, but not an adrenalin rush, more like the feeling of being in total and complete love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Almost immediately after - but no one believed me. So, I quit telling them. More recently, as it came up in conversation, I would tell the kids I was teaching or my own kids. My husband still thinks I'm nuts, but I just tell him that he'll see eventually!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was most definitely real, more real than present reality could ever be.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same reasons as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I can't think of any. Thanks for this website and what you do!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robin_w_fde.html