{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robine_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Robine C Probable NDE 9357","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robine C Probable NDE 9357  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robine C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5018 Robine C Probable NDE 9357  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    August 2003, I’m 23 years old.

  It’s evening, I’m sitting on the edge of my bed, I hear a nightingale teaching his children to sing.

  I feel my body shaking, my heart beating is slowing down. I feel cold sweats, I have my head spinning, at first gently, then more and more quickly, and I feel a strong pain in the heart, very unpleasant. I fall down on my bed. I can’t move.

  I’m trying to call for help...

  I’m screaming so loud... HELP, HELP ME !!!

  I hope someone in the other room will hear me and realize that I’m not moving, that I’m not breathing.

  But nothing, nobody comes. I’m alone... it’s No use to shout.

  I keep thinking and thinking, but my body remains like a statue.

  I try to move; at least the fingers, but nothing, yet I’m focused.

  My head keeps turning and I still feel pain, but it’s a rather pleasant pain. My heart keeps slowing down, then suddenly it stops.

  I wonder what’s going on, I can’t hear any more outside noise. My head stops spinning and I feel like I’m flying. It’s weird, and at the same time, I’m terribly scared.

  I still feel cold sweats, but a little less than before, I feel light as a feather. I see the room where I am, but from the ceiling.

  This is where I feel an inner peace, a well-being that is rather difficult to describe, there is a lot of love all around me, a very pleasant feeling.

  Then I feel like a presence with me, accompanying me on this journey. It is white and sweet. I feel like I’m walking on a cloud.

  That’s when I realize I’m going to die. I didn’t see a tunnel, I didn’t see a blinding light, I didn’t see my life go by, there was No one I knew reaching out to, No, none of that.

  Just me, and this presence, I think it’s God or an angel, who makes me realize that everything is going to be okay.  I don’t have to be afraid.

  That God is here and that He watches over me and loves me.

  And now I’m thinking about things I wanted to do that I didn’t have time to do. Continuing to travel to meet more people, or going back to church.

  I want to get back in my body, but I can’t. Someone’s pulling my arm. But I don’t want to go with him yet, I’m not ready. I said, 'If you let me go back into my body, I’ll make my life better.'

  I see a shadow that gives me something. I take it, and I return to my body, always with great difficulty.

  But my breath comes back, very fast, then normally afterwards.

  I feel like my heart is beating again. I’m a little hurt, but I came back. My head is still spinning and I’m lost.

  I wonder what just happened. I’m scared, I’m sweating, and yet I’m cold. I still don’t realize I was dead, and now I live. My trip only lasted a few minutes, but for me, it seemed a lot longer.

  I hear a noise outside, it’s my nightingale.

  It will take me a long time to realize and to talk about it.

  To the people who are afraid of death, I would like to tell them.

  Up there, it’s very beautiful, I don’t know if I was in Paradise, but it was better there, than here.

  I came back different from this trip, since, I’m much more empathetic. I changed my life by going back to school to do a job I love. I enjoy more of my life.

  I travel, I love God more than before, because he never abandoned me, No, I left, I wasn’t ready to join him !

  There’s only one problem, is, my soul wanted to leave in peace and I stopped it.

  If I had to relive this moment, I think I’d let myself go, I wouldn’t fight, because I was so good, in heaven.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 around 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Heart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   No difference  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       About the same as when I'm awake.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.    I felt like my experience lasted for hours.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     normal  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    normal  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It wasn't a tunnel, I was surrounded by white clouds

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     It was a kingdom of clouds, love, and peace.
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At the beginning, I felt fear and then I felt serenity.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     we are one  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I could decide to come back to my body because I had a choice.
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I got even closer to God.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I met God; he touched my left arm.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I already knew that God was there, always, with me

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know what is after the death of the body

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     that I had to express my emotions  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes    love was everywhere  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.    I became more empathetic.  
  
  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I surround myself with positive people who have the same values as me.  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember all the details.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     a gift of premonition and intuition.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I remember the face of God, and it is...magnificent, full of love

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes   5 years later I wrote it in my diary and 5 years later I made a video.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real.   I thought I had a dream.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.    It was true.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robine_c_probable_nde.html