{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robin_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Robin T NDE 9702","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robin T NDE 9702  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robin T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5235 Robin T NDE 9702  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    When I was 17, I was riding a horse to a parade ground event. As we left the stall, the horse was acting frisky. Within 10 minutes of the ride, he threw me off. This caught me off guard as I felt his back arch.  My only thought as I flew through the air was not to get my feet caught. I hit the pavement with my face.

  I do not recall the impact, but I remember that I was way above my body.  There was a light behind me. I did see myself on the ground, but was not concerned. Another rider was screaming and yelling, but I have no idea what she was saying. It seemed like a long time that I was in the tree. I also remember making the decision to not leave and to come back to my body.  I wanted badly to go in the Navy. 

  Next thing I know, I am kneeling and holding my mouth wondering if I still had my teeth. I don't remember much else afterwards.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 1977  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  Accident         Other: Thrown face first off horse onto the pavement.  None of my injuries unbelievably were deathly. Smashed face, broken.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It was normal  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I left my body until I slammed back into it.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same. Not  sure if heard anything other than myself  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Behind me. I had a deep sense that if I turned around to the light, I would not be back.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sort of detached and unconcerned  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to lifes   I wanted to go in the Navy. I felt it.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Not sure what to say here.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I fully believe we can leave our bodies if trained to do so.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my lifes     Coming back with a face that looked like a sledgehammer when I was  17y years old, makes me realize how shallow I was. I do not have a fear of death, nor do I seek it out. I think I am kinder and the USN became my career for 28 years. I always felt that was my purpose and reason for being on the planet.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  Feels like yesterday. Ironically, I can't tell you what I did last week  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. I remember talking about it within days  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I was 17, I am now 64. It's still real to me.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Like yesterday  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robin_t_nde.html