{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robin_g_nde_9437.html","mytitle":"Robin G NDE 9437","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robin G NDE 9437  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robin G NDE 9437  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5069 Robin G NDE 9437  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I went to donate blood on my college campus. At some point I passed out.  After passing out, I felt myself being whisked down a long tunnel and I saw a very bright white light at the end.  I never got to the end because they brought me back to consciousness.  I remember for that entire day walking around on campus feeling completely serene and at peace. A state of tranquility that I had never experienced before.  No more fear of death or dying. It was completely gone. I observed all the natural beauty of the campus and was in a state of total awe of just how magnificent and beautiful G-d's nature was.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 don't remember  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         donating blood  Other: passed out unconscious.  I was donating blood at a blood drive on my college campus and I passed out.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I had a tremendous awareness of the world around me and the exquisiteness of nature.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the beginning of donating blood.  And then a unique awareness while I was in the tunnel.  And at a high level after they brought me back.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     I was flying down the tunnel at a very fast speed.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In the state of unconsciousness, I was able to see things that with my eyes closed in everyday vision I wouldn't normally be able to see.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing in particular that I recall.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I definitely went through a long tunnel towards the light but I never got to the end.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was white and very bright.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Excitement; anxiety while unconscious.  Elation and like walking on air afterwards.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Jewish   but not observant  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became a very religious, observant Jew.  

What is your religion now?       Jewish   orthodox observant Jewish  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     As a relatively, uneducated, non-observant Jew, I didn't have any knowledge of the beliefs my religion had towards death and dying.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I very much looked to become more religiously observant in my Judaism and took on an orthodox lifestyle.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     When I was brought back, I had an awareness that there is a unity/oneness that exists between me, nature and G-d.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     After I was brought back, I sensed an incredible unity with nature indicating to me that G-d exists.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I feel that I know G-d exists without any doubt and I am one of the fortunate few who No longer fears death and dying.  There is a part of me that looks forward to the next stage (afterlife) when I'll hopefully be reunited with my family once I've completed my purpose here in this world.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't feel anyone could understand what I had experienced and observed.  It was ethereal.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  There were No other events that occurred around the time of the experience that stood out from my ordinary daily routine.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     On 3 separate occasions i sensed that something bad was going to happen or happened and I told others about it and then it happened - i.e., like I sensed a tree was going to fall on our house and the next morning I woke to my kids shouting that a tree had fallen on our house.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the feeling of walking around on campus in a total state of peace and serenity.  I would love to be able to have that exact feeling again.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have only shared it with a few people.  I didn't think people would understand. I shared it with a close friend when I was in my 30's and she being very spiritual herself, understood and later on she too became an observant Jew.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I know it happened and I still had somewhat of a lingering feeling of utopia.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I have never forgotten it because it had a lasting impression on my entire life from then on forward.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robin_g_nde_9437.html