{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roberta_nde.html","mytitle":"Roberta NDE 2844","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roberta NDE 2844  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roberta NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						975  Roberta NDE  2844  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was at the beach with my family one summer. It was a small and crowded beach, one section of this beach, on the west side, was closed due to a 'drop off.' My mother had instructed me NOT to go near this side because of the drop and the fact that I did not know how to swim. When no one was looking, I decided the beach was much too populated and proceeded to the closed section. I remember deliberately testing the water beneath my feet, inching as close to the drop off as I possible could. Somehow, someway (I cannot remember) I went past the drop off and this is when my drowning experience began.

I remember thrashing and going under the water, I was panicking at first, but suddenly I felt peaceful. I was out of my body, watching myself as I tumbled around and around. I did not experience a tunnel, however, I did experience an intense ray of light that wrapped itself around me, and it felt so incredibly warm and comforting. I remember Jesus (or a higher power) speaking to me, I had a conversation with a voice; however, I did not see anyone but my own body. I cannot remember the entire conversation but I remember speaking of our purpose (love) and being told it was not my time (I felt very sad about this because the feelings I had were so comforting and incredible I did not want to go back). When I came to, my mother had pulled me out of the water (she had seen someone drowning but at that time had no idea it was me) I felt such a loss. All I could think of was regain the feelings I had and I wanted to go back into the water.

I cannot even begin to express the emotions I experienced so many years ago. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1975  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       drowning  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I did not know how to swim and was drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was emotionally charged, as if all my senses were on overload.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe once my initial panic subsided and I was out of body, having a conversation with 'GOD' and feeling almost cradled in such warmth and peace.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Although it was many years ago, I cannot completely remember the clarity but I can 'feel' the clarity (if that makes ANY sense at all).  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Please see above.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was no tunnel however there was a ray of light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I believe it was God, I did not see a physical person however I heard their voice. I cannot remember clearly the entire conversation however I believe we discussed 'love' and I definitely remember being told it was not my time and that I would be returning.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A ray of light that was filled with warmth.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, joy, peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I cannot remember experiencing a past review.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'none - I believe in a higher power, however, am uncertain of the traditional religions'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'none - I believe in a higher power, however, am uncertain of the traditional religions'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I believe I shared a conversation about our purpose which was love.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I am uncertain because I was so young at the time, I do not know how it affected me thereafter (however, I was always a very empathetic, caring child).  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Emotionally charged. Extremely settled, amazing and wonderful experience. Am unable to express the joy and peace I experienced.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was much more empathetic and experienced abilities to 'sense' things, I would get 'butterflies' in my tummy when I would sense things. I also had a few visions; however, this has slowed down considerably over the years.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I believe I shared my experience immediately with my family.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roberta_nde.html