{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roberto_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Roberto F NDE 5422","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roberto F NDE 5422  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roberto F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3149 Roberto F NDE 5422  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In 2008, I left my parents house to live by myself.  During that time, an old high school friend reappeared. I haven't heard from him since high school times. This friend helped me move, gave me support, advice and kept me company during some hard times. I introduced him to my friends and we would all go out together sometimes.  However, he never introduced me to any of his friends. His visits to my house became more and more frequent. He started showing up without telling me in advance, unexpectedly, and sometimes his visits were inconvenient. 

By the end of January, I decided to have a serious conversation with him. I told him his visits without warning were becoming inconvenient and that it was causing me some problems. He was really hurt and said it wasn´t fair that I was doing that to him.  He said that our friendship was over. I felt guilty and thought that maybe I overreacted to his surprise visits, but that time would heal everything. 

After two weeks without showing up or answering my phone calls, he called me, saying he would stop by my house. I asked why he didn't call me before and he said he wanted some time to cool down and forget about our conversation.  He said that now everything was fine between us. The day he went to my house, as usual at an inconvenient time.  I was sleeping. He invited me to go fishing with him, and said there were some beautiful water falls in the river we could visit. I didn't want to go because I had slept poorly and was very tired. Something inside of me was telling me not to go; nevertheless, I said, 'yes' and went with him. I remember I had a great time, but my memory ceases from the moment we were going back home in the afternoon. When I woke up, I couldn't open my eyes or move. I felt very cold and pain everywhere.

Suddenly, I felt a sensation of peace and tranquility taking over me. Then I saw the image of an unknown man in a beautiful garden. I felt peace like nothing could ever go wrong. I felt safe. This was something inexplicable. As the man started talking to me I had the feeling I knew him somehow, even though I had never met him before. I also noticed a kind of light that came from him and that made me feel calm. It was as if that light was feeding the peace I felt. He told me I could choose either to go with him and see what I have done wrong in my life, or to stay. 

The moment he questioned me, I immediately thought about my mother. It was as if I had memories of a past life, something I had lived before with vivid details and those memories were related to the very difficult relationship I have with my mother. The man of light looked at me as if he had read my thoughts and told me that I had made my decision.  He told me that he would help me find help. 

Right after that, I felt I was traveling through light. In a blink of an eye, we were above the moon lit treetops, looking at my naked body lying below on the floor. To our right, there were streetlights and houses. He pointed at the houses and directed my attention to a house that had a light on in the porch. We went towards my body. When I was very close to my body, I closed my eyes and the cold and the sharp pain came back. The man of light was still near me, but I could no longer see him, I could only feel his presence and hear his voice. He told me to go towards the streetlights and reminded me of the house with the porch light. I walked through the bushes to the street that seemed far away. I felt weak, but felt his presence giving me strength. As I arrived in the street I saw many houses near me, but I had to go to the one that had the porch light on. 

When I got near the house, I saw it was empty.  I entered through a window that was open. I went to the phone and called the police, my family, and the emergency service. They all said they could only help if they had the address of where I was at, but I didn't know where I was. I looked for a blanket to keep me warm and closed my eyes. I then saw the same man that had guided me there and gave me the option to remain alive, and had been with me in that peaceful place I was before. He told me to wait there because good people would come along to save me.  He told me that I should move on with my life. I agreed nodding my head and fell asleep. I woke up with the noise of the house owners arriving.  They called for help and in the meanwhile cleaned my wounds and took care of me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/09

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Criminal attack  'Hiportemia, hemorragia, fraturas e diversos ferimentos'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had been stabbed 8 times and had a perforated lung and bowel, and also internal and external bleeding, including a very bad wound in my left eye.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   It was different when I looked for help.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I looked for help.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I am far-sighted, but could see my body clearly from the treetop. I saw the house in front of me clearly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear frogs and crickets.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A garden, and I felt myself traveling in a tunnel of light very fast.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A man made of light that guided me and helped me.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peace, absence of fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Metodista (Nascimento) não praticante

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am now sure there is life after death.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Espírita praticante

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am now sure there is life after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more patient.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I talk to my friend of light and feel myself traveling out of my body and going to the same garden at night. My intuition is sharper.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It took me three months to recuperate from my wounds. I had to use pain killers.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was true.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Dreams.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roberto_f_nde.html