{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1roberta_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Roberta W Probable NDE 5344","mylang":"de"}
          	        Roberta W Probable NDE 5344  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Roberta W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2810 Roberta W Probable NDE 5344  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was pulled from my body.  I understood that I was no longer in my body and at the same time I felt a physical resistance to leaving it as I knew that it meant that I was dying. I went through the typical tunnel experience with the light pulling me.  My arrival at the light was a mind-blowing love that I recognized as God.  Then I experienced a mind transfer of information through telepathy and I understood that when we die, we understand everything, which is so very simple that I did not want to leave. I felt emotion that I can summon today, 27 years later after the experience.  

I was then sucked back into my body. The next thing I remember is waking up in my hospital bed. I feel somewhat confused that I would want to stay with God and resist coming back to my loved ones. I needed to talk about this with my husband but he did not want to deal with it. However, I could not stop my own need to understand it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 1, 1984'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth    Other under anesthesia c section deliver  I was having an emergency C- section. However no mention was made to me at the time that I was in a life-threatening situation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the entire experience, I understood exactly what was happening to me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire experience, I understood exactly what was happening to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no communication to me through hearing, however I have a memory of a low droning tone.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Mine was the typical tunnel experience that I have read about.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I only communicated with what I understood to be God. No other beings were with me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was brilliant, warm, and beckoning.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was initially upset to leave my family, especially my new baby, as well as my six year old daughter and my husband, whom I loved completely.  Then when I reached the light, and was blanketed with it, I did not want to go back. I was experiencing complete bliss, love contentment, and acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   You will know everything like a complete library after you cross over.  You will know that the most important message to take back for yourself is very simple. Live, treating all others as you would the most loved person in your life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I focused on what was positive for my children.  My children are now 35,28, 25, and as I look back, I can see the positive spirit I maintained towards them.  And my marriage is not perfect, but it has been sustained over time, I believe, because of my spirit.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was an experience not of this Earth.  Also, I was having a child, and with the added stress of what was going on in the family, I was experiencing competing emotions internally.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I feel somewhat confused that I would want to stay with God and would resist coming back to my loved ones. Is that selfish? Is it normal?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    First, I shared with my husband, who was not prepared to process this experience. I then contacted my anesthetist who advised me to not focus on the experience, as it would make me mentally ill.  After 20 years, I am willing to share this with anyone whom I feel would benefit from it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My Catholic up-bringing lead me to read the Bible from front to back. I also understood my husband could not deal with this experience.  The Bible actually really helped me understand my experience, but I did not want to join any organized religion.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience guides everything I do in my personal and professional life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Include some questions about what spiritual advances people who have been through NDEs have made since the event.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roberta_w_probable_nde.html