{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robin_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Robin G NDE 21083","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robin G NDE 21083  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robin G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						745  Robin G NDE  21083  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I was nineteen years old, I gave birth to my daughter Khrysta after seven hours of excruciating labor. The doctor kept telling me not to push but I could not help it.  The urge to push was too intense.  After I pushed her out, I heard the nurse tell the doctor that ‘she is bottoming out’.  I didn't know then but I now know that my blood pressure was dropping quickly.  I then heard the Doc say ‘she tore her cervix and she is hemorrhaging’.  Then I heard the nurse say ‘she is going into shock and she is unconscious’.  This is where it gets weird.


I felt a complete calm come over me and I felt no pain whatsoever.  I never felt myself leave my body; I was just standing at the head of my bed looking at myself and the nurse and Doctor. I heard them talking about stopping the bleeding by stitching up my cervix.  I felt no discomfort from being out of my body.  It was very peaceful. I heard the Doctor tell the nurse ‘try to wake her up’.  I then watched her walk over and pick up a little packet off a standing silver tray. I tried to say ‘I am awake, I am awake’.  But my lips weren't moving.  So the nurse walked up, tore the packet open, and put this horrible smelling stuff under my nose. What's weird is that I smelt it before my body smelt it. All of a sudden, I was back in my body slapping her hand away and telling her 'I Am Awake, I've been awake the whole time, leave me alone!’ Apparently, they stitched me up, the hemorrhaging had stopped, and I was stable.  It wasn't until the next day when the doctor came into my room to see me on his rounds did I have the chance to tell him what had happened.  All he said was ‘Sometimes that happens.’  Not to me it doesn't, I thought.  This was a remarkable thing and it has never happened to me since.  I wish it would because then I would know that I am not crazy! 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    3/01/1993

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Hemorrhage-shock. Hemorrhage and shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was just out of my body but never felt it happen.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Extremely clear and serene.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the doctor and nurse talking.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My vision was clear and hearing was clearer but I had no sense of touch.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace and calm. No fear at all.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I now believe that we have a spirit or soul.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The peace and calm were the best part.  Having to go back in my body was the worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They think I am crazy. They give me that look.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robin_g_nde.html