{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 4811 9421 3992 6399","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_march_1890_supplement.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 Supplement March 1890","mylang":"de"}
406 Ge'neral Meeting8
GENERAL MEETINGS.
The thirty-fourth, thirty-fifth, thirty-sixth, and thirty-seventh
General Meetings of the Society were held at the Westminster Town
Hall on October 25th and November 29th, 1889, and on January 31st
and March 28th, 1890, at which the preceding four papers were read
in whole or in part.
Digitized by Google
Sapplement.] Drs. Dufay and Azam on OlairvQyance, &c. 407
SUPPLEl\IENT.
I.
OBSERVATIONS ON CLAIRVOYANCE, &0.
By DRS. DUFAY AND AzAM:.
Most of our readers are already familiar at least with the name of the
Societe de Psychologie Physiologique, founded in Paris, in 1885, under the
presidency of M. Charcot, and including in France such names as Beaunis,
Janet, Ribot, Richet, Sully.Prudhomme, Taine, &C. The bulletins of this
Society contain many papers of interest; most of which are accessible to
the general reader in the .Re171Ul PhilollQ]Jhiqll.e, where they are generally first
printed. With the permission of the Society, and through the kind help of
Miss Porter, we are enabled to print here a somewhat condensed translation
of two papers laid before the Society in 1888, by Dr. Dufay, formerly a.
practising physician at Blois, and now a Senator of France. These papers
were published in the RelllUl PhiZosophUpUl for September, 1888, and
February, 1889.
I.
CONTRIBUTION TO mE STUOY OF SOMNAMBULISM PRODUCED AT A DISTANCE
AND WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT.
In an experiment of this nature, I was successful one day with a lady
whom (with her consent), I was in the habit (If putting into the magnetie
sleep.
I had recommended my patient, Madame A., who was extremely nervous,
to give up all stimulant, especially champagne. I was not only her medical
attendant, but also a friend of the house, and was often invited to dine
there. One evening I noticed that my patient had allowed champagne to be
poured into her glaas, and was about to raise it to her lips. Fearing to be
inconsiderate in reminding her that she was disobeying orders, and gazing
fixedly at her-without her noticing it, I believe,-l willed intently that she
should sleep, so that she should not be able to drink. And she remained, in
fact, with her arm hanging in a state of cataleptic rigidity, and with open
eyes, thQugh without looking in my direction. said in a reproachful tone :
.. Ah! doctor, you are cruel!" Then she fell quite asleep, and when, at
the end of several minutes, I woke her. she declared that she had quite
forgotten my order: that only at the moment when she was raising her
glass, had she felt that I was preventing her from drinking: that tlUa had
annoyed her very much, but that she had not been able to disobey • • •
and here her memory failed.
It may be asked whether the fear that I might prevent her drinking her
2 F 2
Digitized by Google
~ Dr8. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, J:c. [Supplem8ll&'
champagne had not been sufficient to produce the self-suggestion, from
whence resulted the incident that I bave just related; but 88 neither self-
suggestion nor expectant attention W&8 known of at that time, I find the
occurrence headed in my notes: "Somnambulism produced at a distance,
and without the subject being aware of it." At the present time I should
share M. Richet's doubt, if I had not entire confidence in Madame A.'s
auertion, made subsequently by her when in the somnaDlbulic state, that ahe
bad not thought of my prohibition.
In connection with this patient; I may, perhaps, be allowed a digression,
which is not without a certain interest. It is all example of the extraordi-
nary development of memory observable during somnambulism-whether
spontaneous or induced. Madame A. who W88 expecting a first confine-
ment, W&B in the habit of remaining in bed till mid-day : one mornIng when
I went to see how she W&8, I found her in tears and so shaken with BObs that
she W&B unable to pronounce a word. I handed her a pencil and a sheet of
paper, begging her to write down what had happened. With a trembling
band she then wrote : "The mother resides at Blois . . . a BOn. • .
great joy! Croup, the hideous monster, attacking the poor little one, seized
it by the throat. . . • ."
Here she uttered a piercing cry, and W&8 seized with violent convulsions.
I b&Btened to place my hand on her forehead, BO &8 to bring about sleep and
composure, and, if p088ible, to prevent any serious misfortune. The BObs,
while becoming less and 1088 frequent, continued BOme minutes, and then
the attack p&88ed over.
In the words written down by Madame A. I had recognised some frag-
ments of Victor Hugo's verse, and I W&B not long in discovering at the foot
of the bed his volume of Contemplations, which her husband had brought
in an hour before, without having read it himself. By an unfortunate
accident, the poor woman's eyes had fallen on the piece entitled "Le
Revenant," the reading of which had caused her all the greater emotion,
because the scene W&B laid st Blois,"and her inlagination suggested to her
grave anxieties as to the health of the unborn child, whom she so ardently
longed for.
At last the storm had abated, respiration W88 slow and regular ; the eyes
remained closed, deeply Bunk in their sockets and Burrounded by broad,dark
circles. Her right hand moved continuously, which led UB t() suppose that
the sleeper dreamt that Bhe was writing.I
We decided to Bettle this : I again put the pencil between her fingers,
and her husband having placed a large Bheet of paper on the Btiff cover of a.
piece of music to serve &B a desk, I &Bked her whether, now that she had
recovered her composure, she felt able to write down, from the tirst line to
the 1&Bt-and there are 102 of them-the little drama that had BO upset her.
Then, with her eyes still closed, she set to work. The lines were
1 This takes place, moreover, in the nonnal state, when in a half sleep. the brain
automatically continues the day's work, and one dreams of altering a phrase already
written, or of finiRhing a page already commenced. The right hand becomes the lK'.at of
aligltt oontractions, morc fibrillar than muscular, which direct the movements of the
fingers neces~ary to form the letters and warda exp1"088ing the thought of the moment.
This corrolatit"e phenomenon, although very frequent, often passes unobaened.
Digitized by Google
Supplement.] Drs. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, tfc. 409
certainly occasionally confused, running one upon the other in spite of the
trouble that we took to guide the paper, but that was because her fore-arm
remained motionless, and only the fingers moved the penoil : still there waa
no error of rhythm or of rhyme, only the punctuation was entirely wanting.
" How many times have you read these versee 1" I asked Madame A.,
as soon as she had finished.
" Only once: 1 had not the courage to begin again."
And 1 did not doubt her word, because though people in the somnam-
bullc state may occasionally refuse to reply to a question put to them, it is
impoIBible for them to lie. When, two hours later, 1 had just aroused her,
she repeated that she had not read a second time these 102 lines, written
out from memory during sleep, and of which she could not remember four
consecutively nOli- that she was awake.
The previous year 1 had been witneIB of a similar occurrence with thia
aame lady, who was an excellent musician. One of her friends had received
the score of a new opera, and took it to show to her. My patient set to
work to study the overture, which greatly pleased her; then she glanced
through the first act, and at the end of an hour her friend took away the
acore, promising to let her have it again in a few days. The following day
I was received with the exclamation: "Ah I doctor, if you had only come
last evening, you would have heard something that would have given you
pleasure," and she tcld me of the loan of the score.
1 suggested that as she had played the overture, and found it 80 charm-
ing, she should do me the kindn88B of letting me hear it. But she expreued
heraelf quite unable to remember eight or ten pages of music, which she
had only played through once: then, gueBBing that 1 wished to make an
experimont, she declared herself willing to submit, in order that she and her
husband should laugh together over my failure.
As usual, the simple touch of my hand on her forehead produced im-
mediate sleep, and her head sank forward on her chest: but when one hand
was placed on the keys of the piano the head suddenly regained its upright
position, and vigorously-grasped chords announced the commencement of the
piece. From the beginning to the end there was not a single hesitation. Her
husband and 1 looked at each other in amazement. Never afterwards, even
with the musio before her, was her execution more perfect.
When, by means of certain passes, from within outwards, made behind
her head, 1 had put an end to the sleep, the artist turned towards us with a
mocking expreBBion: "There," she said, laughing, "I was quite sure that
your experiment would not succeed." It was in vain for us to aBBure her
that it had been a complete succeIB, she would not believe it. She only
admitted it when she was again put to sleep.
But to return to our subject, that is to say, to the production of sleep at
a distance.
At one time, when medical attendant at the theatre at Blois, 1 had to
attend a young actreBl, who was subject to frequent Protean exhibitions of
hysterical passion. Laying aside purely medical considerations, which would
involve me in a fresh digression, 1 only extract from my notes what concerna
the special subject now occupying me.
The first time that 1 was called to Mdlle. B., I found her seated on the
Digitized by Google
410 Dr8. Dulay and Azam. on Olai1-voyance, ,f:c. (Supplement.
carpet, near to a large fire, her clothes torn, and ready, so she told me, to
throw herself into the grate, if I did not succeed in subduing the fury that
was consuming her. I questioned her as to the cause of this attack of anger;
she maintained silence j her jaws tightly clenched, her eye-htuls convulsively
turned upwards, her limbs rigid j • • • then a sudden shock stretched
her on the floor, from whence I moved her on to her bed, in a state of
tetanic rigidity and general aIUesthesis.
My hand hAd hardly been a minute on her forehead, when the muscular
contraction disappeared: a flood of tears and a succesaion of deep sighs put
an end to the scene, and the poor girl was then able to slip into her bed.
making a thousand excuses, and assuring me of her gratitude. As to the
cause of her great rage, she knew of none. She then sought my hand and
lifted it to her forehead, saying that it gave her a delicious sensation of well-
being j afterwards she fell into a drowsy slate, which I allowed to last for
BOme hoUrI, while one of her companions watched her.
I witnessed similar attacks seven or eight times during the two months
that the company remained at Blois j but after my third visit it was sufficient
to command Mdlle. B. to sleep, or even to fix my eyes on hers, in order
immediately to produce a perfect calm j moreover the attacks became less and
lesa violent, and she felt strong and refreshed after an hour of magnetic sleep.
I said just now that I had managed to hypnotise Mdlle. B. by a word or
a look, but I did not think that without real contact it could succeed, unIeaa
I was close to her at the time. Having always noticed that intelligence is
much more highly developed in the somnambulic state, I had sometimes
hypnotised this very indifferent little actresa by merely telling her, just as
she was about to make her appearance on the scene, that she \\'1\11 going to
sleep, which always procured her a great success with the public. It is 1\
circulDStance of this nature which introduces her into my present subject.
One evening I arrived late at the theatre. The manager was waiting
anxiously for me in his office j he had changed the order of the pieces and put
the" Caprice" at the end of the entertainment, because he had just been
informed by telegram that his "grande coquette" had missed the train, which
was to have brought her from Tours to Blois. But he was relying on my
assistance to substitute Mdlle. B. without damaging the perfonnance.
" Does she so much as know her part 1" I asked him.
" She has seen it played several times, but she has not rehearsed it."
" Have you expresaed any hope that I might come to her assistance 1"
" I took care not to do that: any doubt as to her talents would have been
sufficient to have produced one of her attacks."
,, Very well, do not let her know I am here. I will take advantage of this
opportunity to make a very interesting experiment."
I did not show myself on the stage, but took my place in a close box at
the far end of the house, which happened to be unoccupied, and the grating
closed. Then, drawing myself together, I willed intently that Mdlle. B.
might fall asleep.
It was then half-past ten. I learned at the end of the perfonnance that
at this same time the young artist, stopping in the middle of her toilette.
suddenly sank down on the sofa in ber room, begging the dresaer to let her
rest a little. After a few minutes of drowainesa she got up, finished dresaing
Digitized by Google
8upp1ement.) Dr8. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, t/:c. 411
henelf, and went down to the stage. When the curtain rose I was not very
confident of the succeu of my experiment, not then knowing what had taken
place in the actre8ll' dressing-room j but I was not long in aatisfying myself,
merely by seeing the action and attitude of my subject. She had retained
in her memory this part which ahe had not learnt, but had only seen played,
and acquitted herself marvellously. There was, however, another suggestion
that I must unconsciously have given her, when mentally ordering her to
play the comedy, and that was to put herself en rapport with the other
characters in the piece, since without that somnambulists only see and hear
the person who bas put them to sleep. However that may be, I was obliged
to awaken Mdlle. B. in order that she might take part in the supper which
was given by the delighted manager.1
She then remembered having thrown herself on the sofa, just 88 she had
put on one of her gloves, and, finding herself seated there again, she imagined
that we had come to tell her that the curtain W88 rising for the" Caprice."
It was only on seeing her companions surrounding her, and congratulating
her on her progre88, that she underst<KKi what had taken place, and thanked
me with a glance.I
If it be objected that she had expected my arrival, then sUBpected my
presence, or,at least,my inft.uence which had been so favourable to her talent
on other occasions, and that self-suggestion had even in this case produced
8Omnambulism-I have no reply to make.
* * * * *
Among my other patients, to whom induced somnambulism brought
undeniable relief, there is one whose history fitly finds a place here.
Madame C. W88 35 years of age, of a nervous temperament, and slightly
rheumatic. For some time she had been subject to periodical attacks of
headache and sickne88, which the usual remedies had failed to relieve.
Under these circumstsnces, I did not hesitate to try the effect of magnetism
on my first visit to her. At the end of five minutes the pain pa88ed
off and the sickne88 ceased, and on every subsequent occasion the aallle
thing took place. If my arrival waa delayed, the troubles continued j but
1 All those whom I have _n in the 801Dnambulio state, whether spontaneous or
induced, were unable to perform the movements of deglutition. If thid is a general
rule, it has at least one exception, because Dr. Azam'8 }t'elida would not paIIII months
in her"situation 8eCOnde " without taking nourishment.
Had I tben known of the po88ibility of 8Uggedtion, it is probable that I might bave
enabled my patients to eat. It ought to be as easy to put an end to a pharyngeal
all8e8tbesia, 88 to cause, 88 has been done, tbe appearance of bleeding stigmata and
of blisters on the Akin.
S With respect to tbe forgetfulntlllll of what had taken place during an attack of
8Omnambulism, I have publisbed in tbe .Re1.-Ut Scientijlque of December 18t, 1883, the
case of a young servant gil'l, who, thinking that her mistress' jewels were not 88fe in
the drawer where she had put tbem, hid them in another piece of furniture, where
they seemed to her to be 88fer. Accused of having st(llen them, and despite her denials
(whioh were quite sincere), she was put in pri80n. One day, in paying a profe88ional
,isit at the prison, I recognised her, havingseen ber serving at the house of one of my
colleagues. Knowing her to be 8Omnambulic, I put her to sleep, and she then related
to me what ahe had done, anlt W88 much distressed at having no recollection of it when,
awake. I made her repeat her declaration before the examining magistrate, who, after
verification, had her set at liberty.
Digitized by Google
412 Drs. DUfCty a'nd Azam on Clai1"Voya'nce, &:c. [Supplement
hardly had I pulled the bell, and before tho door was opened, Madame C.
fell into a calm sleep, It was quite a diJrerent thing if anyone else Tang the
bell, for then the invalid complained bitterly of the noise that was splitting
her head.
Later on she even felt my approach from the further end of the street :
" Ah! what happin888 ! " she would say, "here is the doctor coming, I feel
myself cured !" and Monsieur C. would open the window to make certain of
it, and would see me in the distance. And his wife never mAde a mistake.
Sometimes he would try to encourage her by telling her that he saw me
coming, but she knew that this was not true, and the sickn888 continued.
In a case of this IOrt, how could I hesitate to make an attempt at
influencingher from a distance1Moreover I was driven to it by circumstances.
At the height of an attack, Monsieur C., who had already been twice to
fetch me, discovered where I was to be found. Being with a patient whom
I could not leave for several hours, I SBBured Monsieur C., without being at
all certain of it myself, that his wife would be asleep and cured when he
got home again. I had the satisfaction of verifying this three hours later,
when I ordered a profound sleep to last till the following day, which repaired
the fatigues of the morning. "Thus the poBSibility of magnetising at a
distance is not to be doubted," say my notes. But now-a-days the
objection of self-suggestion presents itself: I was expected j Monsieur C. had
promised to bring me with him.
Am I going to find a more convincing example 1 Yes, certainly. It
was however an act of Bimple curiOBity without any therapeutic aim.
Madame C. was in perfect health, but her name happening to be mentioned
in my hearing, the idea struck me that I would mentally order her to sleep,
without her wishing it this time, and also without her SUBpecting it. Then,
an hour later, I went to her houBe and asked the servant who opened the
door, whether an instrument, which I had mislaid out of my case, had been
found in Madame C. 's room.
"Is not that the doctor's voice that I hear 1" asked Monsieur C.
from the top of the staircase; .. beg him to come up. Just imagine," he
Raid to me, "I·WM going to send for you. Nearly an hour ago my wife
IOBt conscioUBn888, and her mother and I have not been able to bring
her to her seJl888. Her mother, who wished to take her into the country,
is distracted. .• ."
I did not dare to confeBS myself guilty of this catastrophe, but was
betrayed by Madame C., who gave me her hand saying, "You did well to
put me to sleep, Doctor, because I was going to allow myself to be taken
away, and then I should not have been able to finish my embroidery."
"You have another piece of embroidery in hand 1"
"Yes: a mantle-border ... for your birthday. You mUBt not
look as though you knew about it, when I am awake, becaUBe I want to give
you a surprise."
" Make yourself easy as to that, you will see me JUBt as surpriBed as
grateful the day when you make me this valuablo present. But why do you
mention it to me now 1"
" BecaUBe you ought to know why I am pleased at not being able to go
away."
Digitized by Google
SuppJell18llt.1 Drs. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, &:c. 413
I then explained to the husband and the mother that I had allowed myself
to make an exp~riment, and it was settled amongst us that Madame C.
should not be told of it. I then woke her as usual by means of pasaes from
within outwards in front of her eyes, and she was told that she had fallen
asleep after lunch, while reading the newspaper, which did not astonish her
at all.
This truly appears to me to be sleep produced at a distance and without
the knowledge of the subject. But what is one to understand by the word
distance 1 A metre, five or six metres, a half or a whole kilometre 1 Up to
the present time, these are the distances from which I have operated on
Madame A., Mdlle. B., and Madame C.l
I repeated the experiment many times with the last mentioned subject, and
always with success, which was a groat help to we when unable to go to her
at once when sent for. I even completed the experiment by also tcaking her
from a' distance, solely by an act of volition, which formerly I should not
have believed pOllBible. The agreement in time was so perfect that no doubt
could be entertained.I
To conclude, I was about to take a holiday of six weeks, and should thus
be absent when one of the attacks was due. So it was settled between M. C.
and myself that, as soon as the headache began, he should let me know by
telegraph; that I should then do from afar off what succeeded 80 well near
at hand; that after five or six hours I should endeavour to awaken the
patient; and that M. C. should let me know by means of a second telegram
whether the result had been satisfactory. He had no doubt about it; I was
lesa certain. Madame C. did not know that I was going away.
The sound of moanings one morning announced to M. C. that the
moment had come; without entering his wife's room he ran to the telegraph
office, and I received his message at 10 o'clock. He returned home again at
that same hour, and found his wife asleepand not suffering any more. At four
o'clock I willed that she should wake, and at eight o'clock in the evening I
received a second telegram: "Satisfactory result, woke at four o'clock.
Thanks."
And I was theu in the neighbourhood of Sully-sur-Loire, 28 leaguea-1l2
kilometres-from Blois.
Is all this pOSllible 1 Certainly not, if one refuses to admit as posaible
what one oannot explain. It was this explanation that I was waiting for
before publishing my observations, which were written from day to day
without any fixed object; but I could not resist M. Richet's invitation, and
yielded to it without, however, having any pretensions to offering an
important contribution to modem psycho-physiological science.
It may be objected, specially in my last observation, that I had been
I Dr. Gibert baa produood sleep at a distance in a subject who \Vall not forewarned,
from one end of the room to the other, and finally from Graville to Havre, a distance
of two kilometres. Dr. Hclricourt haa several times produced sleep from one hou88
to another at a greater or lellS distance-always without the knowledge of the
subject. [See lkvuc Philolopkiquc, February, 1886.]
t M. eh. Richet, when house surgeon at Beaujon, put one of his patients to sleep
from a distance, and a1so awakened her, without seeing hel', and without being Been by
her; moreover he mentally suggested an action, which she performed,
Digitized by Google
4a Dr8. Dulay and Azmn on Clairvoya1'lee, J.:C. (Supplement.
the victim of a deception; that M. C. had played upon my credulity by
announcing to me that things had taken place in the way that I had almost
predicted. To this I should reply, that my credulity is far from beingexceBSive;
that M. C. was an earnest man, incapable of the idea of deception, and too
anxious about his wife's health not to have begged me to come at once to her
aid-as had been arranged before my departure-if the symptoms, which so
greatly terrified him, had continued after the time which he considered
neceBBarY for me to receive his first telegram.
I had no doubt as to the reality of action at a (perhaps unlimited) distance,
when I observed this case, about 25 years ago. But now, so much am I
struck by the improbability of the story, that I am more ready to admit that
Madame C., at the moment when the pain and sickness commenced, thought
that her husband had heard her moans and had hurried to secure my aB8ist-
ance, since she was unaware of my absence; that her conviction that I
should give her relief as usual had sufficed to produce sleep by self-suggestion,
and that the waking had taken place under the same influence, after a lapse
of time sensibly equivruent to that during which I usually caused her to sleep.
The agreement in time would be a simple coincidence, explicable, moreover,
on the above hypothesis, and by the time of despatching the first telcgram,
without any certain relation of cause and effect. I regret not having repeated
the experiment in a modified fonu, that is to say, by making Madame C.
believe that I was away and could not be informed of her illneBS.
However that may be, can these facts, as well as many others not less well
authenticated, justify a belief in the reality of knowledge not, acquired by
study, or, to be more specific, can a person in the somnambulic state, for
example, make a medical diagnosis. and give therapeuticl\l advice baaed on
this diagnosis 1 Certainly not, if he has not studied medicine. The somnam-
bulic state developB the cerebral faculties-probably by withdrawing all
distraction, internal and external-but it does not create them.
The magnetised or hypnotised subject invents nothing. If he is questioned,
it can be shown that he remembers better than when in the nonnal state
what be has previously seen, heard, studied, and felt ; that his impressions
are keener and more frankly set forth. His superiority consists in the
exalted condition of his memory. The same applies to natural somnambulism.1
But the natural somnambulist, like the insane person, has spontaneous
illusions and hallucinations, while in the hypnotised subject they have to be
suggested. In natural somnambulism imagination plays the principal part;
it is a dream in action. The hypnotised person is an automaton, entirely
paB8ive ; while the somnambulist is inspired by his own imagination, without
the need of an external influence, but is also in danger of following it.
This is the distinguishing diagnosis that my observations pennit me to mBke.
Now, what is the action of the various processes by means of which tho
somnambulic or hypnotic state is brought about 1 Is it nervous radiation,
electro'mBgnetic influence, an effect of polarisation 1 Do these different
causes constitute a single one 1 Perhaps the future may learn this. But
1 Mdill•. R. L. thus expresses this fact, speaking of herself as two pel'l!Ons, and
in the negro speech that is habitual with her in the 80mnambnlic state: .. I do not
undel'l'tand why the flUe Mte (that is to say, she hel'Helf in the Donnal state) does
not remember that; me knows it well, me is perfectly sure of it."
Digitized by Google
Supplement.] D1's. Dltfay and AZa1n on Clairvoyance, tI-c. 415
for these cases of influence at a distance, exercised without the know-
ledge of the subject, what is the conductor that links the agent to the
percipient 1 How does this influ!\nce reach the person aimed at and no
other 1 It is doubtful whether this problem will eyer be solved.
. I have confined myself to the statement of facts, leaving of neceasity their
theoretical explanation to the progreasive evolution of science. The serious
consequences that follow, from both the philosophic and legal point of view,
will not escape anyone, especially if suggestions fulfilled after a lapse of time
be taken into cOI18ideration,-but with these I have not had to concern
myself here.
DR. DUFAY.
Blois, May, 1888.
II.
After reading the .Revile PliilO8Qphiqlle, of September 1st, 1888, whicll
included the above communication, Dr. Azam wrote to Dr. Dufay :-
I myself, and I believe many other medical men, have observed cases
of this or of a similar nature. I will quote two, in which I think I took
all necessary precautions before being convinced of their truth.
1st. About 1853 or 1854, I had under my care a young woman with
confirmed hysteria : nothing was easier than to put her to sleep by various
means. I consider myself entitled to state that, while holding her hand, my
unspoken thoughts were transferred to her, but upon this I do not insist,
error and fraud being poasible.
But the transmission of a definite sensation seemed to me to be absolutely
certain. This is how I proceeded: Having put the patient to sleep, al}d
seated myself by her side, I leaned towardsher and dropped my handkerchief
behind her chair j then while stooping to lift it up, I quickly put into my
mouth a pinch of common salt, which,unknown to her, I had beforehand put
into the right-hand pocket of my waistcoat. The salt being absolutely without
smell, it was impoasiblE' that the patient should have known that I had some
in my mouth j but as soon as I raised myself again I saw her face express
disgust, and she moved her lips about. .. That is very nasty," she said;
" why did you put salt into my mouth 1" 1
I have repeated this experiment several times with other inodorou8
8ubstances, and it has always succeeded. I report this fact alone because it
seelnB to me to be certain. It thus follows that under certain circumstances,
by the intervention of the hand, the transmission of a definite sensatiun can
take place between the operator and the subject in the hypnotic trance. Not
at a distance, and solely by the force of the will, as in the cases you report,
but very nearly so.
2nd. One day, about 1878 or 1879, myoid friends Dr. Mesnet, a celebrated
physician and member of the "Academie de Medecine," in Paris, and the
Dr. M. whose keen intellect and knowledge constitute him an authority on
forensic medicine, showed me some experiments in the garden of their
private asylum, which impressed me most vividly j one of them hl\8
especially remained in my memory.
1 What would have been the result jf the operator had mentally willed the subject
to experience a lIWeet taste !-(Dr. D.)
Digitized by Goo~
416 DI'S. Dufay and Azam on Clairvoyance, &c. [SUppJemeut..
The subject was a young workman, who had e.lready suffered from attacks
of spuntaneous somnambulism. Having been put into the somnambulio
state by M. Mesnet, several experiments were made, but one alone is
sufficiently clear in my memory to allow of my reporting it.
We experimented in a pavilion at the bottom of a large garden with many
avenues of trees. We had previously arranged among ourselves, and quite
unknown to the young man, that we would make hinl walk about the garden,
and that at a certain point in one of the avenues (which point we had noted
by the position of some fallen leaves), the subject, freely strolling about,
shuuld be stopped by an imaginary and impassable obstacle. M. Mesnet,
who alone was in communication with him, was mentally, and at a distance,
to impress this command upon him.
All took place as had been arranged: called by M. Mesnet, the young
man followed the chosen path, and was suddenly arrested as though by a
wall. M. Mesnet continuing to call, the face of the subject assumed an
expression of anguish and of rage: "I cannot,-I cannot pass," he said in
a hopeless manner.
I know, my dear colleague, that enthusiasts in the question of magnetism
{lr hypnotism would see nothing in this case but what was most ordinary ;
for me it is important, because the precautions taken, the good faith and
-competence of the witnesses, and the purely scientific aim pursued, abso-
lutely preclude the notion of illusion or deception. My colleagues and I, all
three familiar with hysterical patients, know how to suspect and mistrust,
and in questions of the sort incline rather to stop short of the truth than to
go beyond it.
It is thus possible, according to the preceding statements, that a person
in a condition of induced somnambulism may perceive a definite sensation,
felt by the operator, and only communicated to him by thought. It is also
possible to obey a definite order so impressed upon him from a distance, as
we have just seen.
I will not here lay before you all the reflections that occur to me on the
subject; a letter is hardly the place to do this ; but I cannot resist com-
paring these facts with those which you report.
Communication at a distance between two individuals. without the em-
ployment of the usual means, is a point they possess in common; b~t in
those which you report the distance is greater, and there is no known
medium of commuuication. In fact, on this matter of distance hangs the
whole question, and this implies the supposition of a special force, I am told
that this is the" force neurique "-give it what name you please, it is none
the less certain that it exists.
Extraordinary as it may be, it has its analogues, which we cannot explain
any better. The principal analogue is the magnet; it acta at a distance
across media which stop many other forces; the In&gnetised needle, drawn
by a power which is enormous, though inaccessible to our senses, always
turns in the 8I\me direction, and its inclination and declination indicate a
gigantic centre of attraction.
Can we explain these phenomena 1 By no means; not any better, I
repeat, than we are able to explain the facta that I report. But is this saying
that a time may not come when these questions will be fathomed 1 For my
Sapplement.l Drs. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, &:c. 417
part, I believe that such a time will come, but that we shall not see it.-
DR. AuK.
... ... ... ... ...
No one (continues Dr. Dufay) will discredit the observations of my
honourable colleague of Bordeaux. Th038 who are acquainted with the
history of magnetism and induced somnambulism, and are conversant with
modern progress, will scarcely be astonished at them. Will those which I am
about to relate be received with the ssme amount of confidence 1 I may ssy
at once that the contrary will neither astonish nor pain me, because unless
I had seen-seen with my own eyes-I do not know whether I should have
believed or not.
Before entering into the subject it would perhaps be as well for me to
mention an episode which might serve to show how little I am inclined
towards credulity. Here it is in a few lines :-
Before quitting Paris in 1845, I had the curiosity to consult several
so-called "lucid" somnambulists, who at that time were enjoying a great
reputation. I kept a monkey in my room in those days, who permitted me to
cut off a lock of hair from underneath his body, and se~med to observe with
great interest the care I took to enclose this small portion of his person in a
double envelope, questioning me meanwhile with an anxious look.
The first expert. to whom I submitted my little packet, turned it well
over between her fingers, handled it in every poBBible way, and then
remarked to me-not without due consideration for my feelings-that my
good grandmother, to whom this lock of hair belonged, suffered from cancer
of the liver, a very serious malady, but which could nevertheless be cured, if
the treatment about to be ordered were adhered to. I preserved my gr&Yity
while the "Barnum" wrote out at the lady's dictation a prescription too
stupid to be preserved.
For another" extra-lucid" somnambulist, my packet contained a lock of
hair, " cut from the head of one who was dear to me, but in whom I ought to
place no confidence." It was the ssme thing with a third, who gave me an
anatomical description of the diseased organs of the person to whom the hair
belonged, quite unsurpaB88bly fantastic.
I was thus ill prepared to swallow the hocus pocus of "extra-lucid" artists.
QnIy one of the somnambulists whom I have observed, was endowed
with mental vision; this was the servant of my colleague M. Girault, of
Onzain (Loir et Cher), the story of whose misfortune in being unjustly accused
and imprisoned for theft, I have already related. In a state of spontaneous
somnambulism she had changed t.he place of some jewela belonging to her
mistress,in order more effectually to secure them from the dangerof thieves,-
a precautionary measure of which she had no recollection in her waking state.
Dr. Girault had several times shown me most interesting experiments
with this girl, whom he magnetised nearly every day. When he was
summoned into the country, he put Marie to sleep and questioned her as to
the state of the invalid he was about to visit; and by this means, he said,
he knew positively-we will only ssy approximately-what drugs he
ought to take with him. I hasten to add that I have never been able to
verify Marie's clairvoyance in her diagnoses either at a distance or near at
hand : but what I have myself seen I will now relate.
Digitized by Google
418 Drs. Dulay antl Azam on CUf,irvoyance, J:c. [Supplement.
On the 15th of June, 1855, I was paying A visit in the neighbourhood of
Onzain, (at Varenne, 16 kilometres from Blois), staying with a client of
mine, whose daughter was about to be married. We had been talking of
M. Girault's Egeria, when all at once MdUe. de S., A charming creole from
the Island of Reunion, seized me by the hands. and led me into a comer of
the room, begging me to fetch the famous somnambulist, as Bhe had the
greatest deBire to question her as to the real character of her future husband.
As was natural, I complied with this childish fancy, and, an hour later,
returned with Dr. Girault and his servant.
Put to sleep by a few passes, Marie was placed en rapport with Mdlle.
de S., tho3e present discreetly keeping at a distance, as the young enquirer
wished to be the only recipient of the revelations of the Pythoness.
For my part, I did not attach any great scientific interest to the very
Animated colloquy taking place, being doubtful of the reality of the
phenomena, and suspecting Marie of playing an amiable part before Mdlle.
de S. by drawing the most enchanting portrait of the absent one. She
(Mdlle. de S.) was in fact ill a state of rapture, Btamping her feet, clapping
her hands, and laughing gaily. . .
Then with lightning rApidity, the comedy changed to tragedy; the poor
somnambulist panted and breathed with difficulty, tears flowed, a cold
perspiration moistened her brow, and she called on Dr. Girault for
8l18istance.
" 'Vhat is the matter, Marie 1 . • . What are you suffering from 1"
" Ah! Sir. . . Ah! Sir . . . how terrible! he is dead ! "
" 'Vho is dead 1 Is it one of my patients 1"
"The son of Limoges, the rope-maker • _ . you know • • . in the
Crimea . • . he has just died. Poor folks! Poor folkB ! "
"Come, come, my child, be calm, doubtless you have had a dream, a b!ld
dream."
" A dreAm !. . . But I am not asleep," (Buch is the assurance of all
Bomnambulists). "I Bee him ... he has JUBt drawn his last breath.
• . Poor boy! Look at him."
And Bhe turned her eyeB to a part of the room which she also indicated
with her hand. She wanted to run away, but ahe had hardly risen from her
chair when she fell back; her legs were unsble to carry ber.
It WI\8 a long time before she WI\8 calmed, and wben M. Girault had
awakened her she was still Buffering from great discomfort, which Bhe
attributed to an indigestion, having no recollection of wbat had taken place.
Wbat had caused her all at once to think of the young soldier 1 It was
known in the village that the father was anxiouB,-not having received
news of his Bon. W1\8 she concerned about it through aympathy witb the
family, or in consequence of a tenderer feeling which the idea of Mdlle. de
S.'s marriage may have awakened in her at thiB moment 1
However thiB lnay have been, Bome time after Limoges received the news
of the death of hiB aon, which had taken place at Dalmate (is this the name
of a French ambulance 1) near to Constantinople on the 15th of June 1855-
that is to say the very day that Marie had her vision.
This reminda one of an account by Gregory of Tours, according to whom
• Saint Ambrose having fallen asleep while saying mass in the Cathedral at
Digitized by Google
Supplement.) Drs. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, &:c. 419
Milan, dreamt that Saint Martin had just died at Tours, which did take
place exactly on that day and at the time of llll\88.
* * * *
Some time after I received a visit from Dr. Girault, who had been
speaking to me of his relative Madame D., then under my care. He had
just seen her, had found her convalescent and recommended some amusement.
Madame D., however, was still unable to leave her chair. "There is only one
thing that could amuse me," she said to him, "and that is that you should
bring your somnambulist here, and show me some of the incredible
phenomena that you are always telling me of, and which I never see. I
shall invite some friends just as incredulous as I am, I warn you."
In order that there should be no suspicion of a pre-arranged scene
between him and his servant, Dr. Girault had promised to get me to arrange
the programme of the seance-the wrapping up, for instance, of certain
packets so as to disguise the nature of their contents, which contents Dr.
Girault himself was not to know. These little packets were to be given to
the somnambulist, who was to find out what was inside them. Thus the
matter was settled and the day fixed.
I had already put aside for the purpose a few objects, not of common
use, in order that chance should not too greatly assist our clairvoyante,
when I received a letter from Algiers, from the commander of an infantry
battslion, whom I had known in the garrison at Blois. He related to me
several episodes of his life in the desert, and especially spoke of his health,
which had been very much tried. He had been sleeping under canvas
during the rains, and this had resulted in violent dysentery, both in his case
and in that of the majority of his comrades.
I placed this letter in an envelopo without addreBB or post-mark, and
carefully stuck down the edges: then I put the whole thing into a second
envelope of a dark colour, and closed it in like manner.
On the day appointed I arrived a little late at Madanle D's. Marie was
already asleep, and was thus unaware of my presence, merely knowing that I
was to be there. The ten or twelve people assembled in the room were simply
stupefied by what they had just seen; the somnambulist having correctly
discerned tho contents of several packets, which they had prepared in the way
that I had prepared mine. But I left my own in my pocket, so as to avoid
monotony in the experiments, only slipping my letter into the hand of a
lady present, and intimating by a sign that it was to be passed on to Dr.
Girault. He received it without knowing that it came from me, and placed
it between Marie's hands.
I did not notice whether her eyes were open or shut, but, as will be
readily understood, that is a matter of no importance in such a case.
" What have you got in your hand 1" asked Dr. Girault.
" A letter."
.. To whom is it addrBBsed 1"
.. To M. Dufay."
"By whom 1"
"A military gentleman whom I do not know."
" And what does this military gentleman speak of in his letter' "
" He is ill. He speaks of his illness."
Digitized by Google
420 Drs. Dulay and Azam on Olairvoyance, &c. [Supplement.
" Is it an illne81 that you can name 1"
" Oh! yes, very well . • . it is like the old woodcutter's of Mesland.
'Which has not yet been stopped."
"Very well, I understand, dysentery. Now listen, Marie. I think it
would give great pleasure to M. Dufay if you were to go and see his friend,
the officer, BO as to bring him reliable information."
" Oh! it is too far . . . it would be a long voyage."
•• ".ell, but start without losing time. Weare waiting for you."
(After a long silence:) "I CI\DJlot get on . . . there is water, a lot of
water."
" And you do not see any bridge 1"
"There certainly is no bridge."
"But perhaps there is a boat to go across in, as between Onzain and
Chaumont 1" (The bridge at Chaumont on the Loire was not then built.)
"Boats . . . yes; but this Loire frightens me,-a regular inundation."
"Come, come, take courage and embark." (Long silence; agitation;
pallor; BOme nausea). II Have you nearly arrived 1"
•• I am arriving, but have been very much fatigued, and I do not see
anyone on the shore. "
" Land and go on : you will find some one at last."
II There, there . • . I see people • . . nothing but women in white.
But no, on the contrary, they all h!\ve beards."
II Very well. Go to them and ask them where you will find the military
gentleman."
(After a silence) .. They do not speak as we do ; I have been obliged to
wait while they called a little boy with a red cap, by whom I was able to
make myself understood. He took me on himself, and slowly, because we
were walking in sand."
" And the gentleman 1"
•• There he is. He has on red trousers and an officer's cap. But he looka
very ill and is BO thin! It is sad that he has not had any ofyour medicine."1
" Has he told you what caused his illne88 1"
"Yes, he showed me his bed, three planka on pickets, above damp sand."
II Good, thank you, now advise him to go to the hospital where he will be
better treated, and you come back to Blois."
(With great animation.) " It is time that I did return, for do you not
see that the innkeeper is giving his own horse the oats which we brought
with us for Bichette." (The accusation could not be verified, but it is not
at all improbable.)
I then requested my colleague to open the letter and read it aloud. He
was not the least astonished of the company: the succeaa had sUrpaBBCd hia
hopes.
It cannot bo l\88umed that Marie read his thoughts, when he did not
know the contents of the letter. (Later on he said tbat he had suspected
that the letter came from Algiers, when the girl suffered from nausea.) Can
she have read my thoughts without having been put en rapport with me.
merely having heard, before being magnetised, that I was to be present
1 Dr. Gimult bad great confidence in the astringent action of plantain, of which his
llerVant had often seen him make ,·arious preparatiolllJ.
Digitized by Google
Sapplement.) Dr8. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, J:c. 421
at the stSance 1 How useleaa appears the minute precaution of bandaging
the eyes of a true somnambulist when her lucidity is being put to the
proof.
Was it even neceaaary that Marie should have had the mysterious letter
in her handa 1 Would she not have read, or rather felt, the contents just
as well, if this letter had been in my pocket, or even in my house, on my
writing-table. or elsewhere 1
These are experiments which have still to be made. But to continue.
It is in the prison of Blois that we next encounter Marie, under circum-
stances which I have already made known. Owing to judicial formalities,
she was not set at liberty the same day that her innocence had been proved.
The following day I was sent for very early, on account of a suicide
which had just taken place. A prisoner, accused of &8BaBBination, had
strangled himself with his neck-handkerchief, one end of which he had
fastened to the foot of his bed, which was fixed to the floor. Laid prone on
the flags of the cell, he had had the courage to push himself backwards
with his handa, until the Blip-knot in the handkerchief drew up and caused
strangulation. The body was already cold when I arrived, at the same time
as the procurator and the examining magistrate.
The procurator, to whom the magistrate had related the somnambulic
scene of the preceding day, expreased a desire to see Marie, and I proposed
to him to take advantage of what had just taken place to question the girl as
to the criminal who had thus executed justice on himself. The magistrates
eagerly accepted my proposition. I cut off a piece of the handkerchief and
wrapped it up in several sheets of paper, which I then tied up firmly. .
Arrived at the women's quarters,-they had just left their dormitory,-
we begged the sister to lend us her room; I signed to Marie to follow us,
without saying a word to her, and put her tb sleep by merely placing my
hand on her forehead. Then I drew the packet from my pocket and put
it between her handa.
At that moment the poor girl started on her seat and flung the packet
from her with horror, angrily crying out that she would not "touch that."
Now it is well known that suicides ill prisons are kept secret as long as
pouible ; in the building nothing had as yet transpired as to the tragedy
which had taken place ; even the sister herself was ignorant of it.
.. What do you think that this paper contains 1" I asked when calm had
been partially restored. .
.. It is 80mething that has been used to kill a man."
" A knife perhapl ; or a pistol 1"
.. No, no, a string ••. I see ... I see .•. it is a neck hand-
kerchief . . . he has hanged himself. . . But make that gentleman sit
down, who is standing behind me, he is trembling so that his limbs cannot
support him." (This was one of the two magistrates, who was so overcome
with what he laW, that he was in fact trembling in every limb.)
" Can you tell me when this took place 1"
" Why here, you know very well. . . • It is a prisoner."
.. And why was he in prison 1"
" For having &8BaBBinated a man who had asked to get up into his cart."
" How did he kill him 1 "
2 G
Digitized by Google
422 Dr8. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, J:c. [8Dpp181D8D~
.. By striking blows with his gOt&et."
This is the name used in Loir et Cher for a sort of hatchet with a short
handle, a broad long blade turned over at the end like a parrot's beak. It
is very much used in the country, especially by coopers and woodmen. In
fact it was a gOtJet that I had suggested in my medico-legal report, as being
the instrument probably used by the murderer.
So far Marie's replies had taught us nothing that we did not know
before. At this moment the examining magistrate drew me apart,
and whispered ill my ear that the gOtJet had not been found•
.. What has been done with this gOlJet 1" I asked.
.. What has been done 1 . . . wait . . . it was thrown into a pool.
• . . I can see it quite well at the bottom of the water."
And she described the place where the pool was situated, with sufficient
exactne88 to permit of a search, which was made that same day in the presence
of a superintendent of police, and resulted in the discovery of the instrument
of crime.
We did not know this result till the evening, but already the scepticism
of the magistrates was much shaken. I asked them if they would profit by
the lucidity of our somnambulist, to clear up certain obscure points ; but this
they refused, collsidering it dishonourable to employ a means of inquiry that
could not be placed at the disposal of the defence. These scruples,
honourable at first sight, appear to me to be exaggerated ; for the use of the
somnambulist might just as easily result in the recognition of innocence, as
in the discovery of guilt, Be that as it may, in order to satisfy their
curiosity, I begged the sister to borrow from some of the inmates any little
objects belonging to them, such as a ring, or an ear-ring, and to tie them up
into packets hiding their form. This she did with intelligence, though
viewing with great disapproval practices which appeared to her to be the
work of Satan. And Marie told us exactly the circumstance. which had
brought about the condemnation of the prisoners.
This girl has left the country; I have heard it said that she married. It
would be interesting to know whether she is still-should I say gifted, or
amicted 1-with somnambulism, spontaneous or induced, or if her children
have inherited this nervous disease.
'I'hese cases of mental vision-or double sight, or magnetic lucidity-
which I have just related took place during induced somnambulism ; those
which are to follow were observed during spontaneous attacks.
One of my fellow citizens, M. Badaire, formerly director of the" 6cole
nomtale," first at Gu~ret, then at Blois, having read in the newspaper an
extract from my communication to the Soci~te de Psychologie Physiologique,
has since told me that he &lao once knew a very remarkable somnambulist.
He was one of the pupil teachers at the school at Gu~ret, and almost every
night, after an hour or two of normal sleep, fell into the somnambullc state,
And executed acts which excited the astonishment of the teachers and of
his comrades. Some of the inhabitants of the town were &lao permit.ted
to witne88 these phenomena.
Dr. Cressant, the medical officer, was specially interested in the boy, and
begged the director to write out for him a report, which he proposed tD
Digitized by Google
Supplement.I Drs. Dulay and .Azam on Clairvoyance, &c. 423
address to the "Academie des Sciences." 1 M. Badaire has been kind
enough to copy this report, and I cannot do better than place it ill extenso
before the Society.
Gueret, Feln-uary 5th, 1860.
SIR,-In compliance with your expressed desire, I have the honour of
sending you a summary of some of the phenomena of natural somnambulism
which we have had the opportunity of observing in young Theophile
Janicaud, pupil-teacher in the ecole normale of 10. Creuse.
M. Simonet, his brother-ill-law (a.ssistant master), informs me that
Janicaud was subject to frequent attacks of somnambulism from about the
age of eight to ten. After that date they ceased almost entirely until he
was nineteen.
During the first year that he was at school, we noticed nothing
uuusual in him; but during the excessive heat in the months of June and
July, 1859, the condition of young Janicaud completely cha.nged, and attacks
of somnambulism occurred every night, with a frequency which soon gave
cause for anxiety as to his health. In a few weeks he was so much altered
as to be hardly recognisable even to the members of his family. His eyes
were sunken, tired, and haggard; and an extreme thinntlss took the place of
:robust health.
Every evening he got up, walked about the dormitory, descended to the
study to work in the dark, or wandered about the gardens for hours at a
time, after which he went back to bed. He had all the appearance of being
awake, with the exception of a particular tone in his voice when he sang or
replied to questions.
Naturally of a timid and shy nature, he became merry, even facetious in
the somnambulic state. He was sharp at repartee, expressing himself with the
greatest facility, and pitilessly exposing any incorrect employment of terms.
One night, despite our attentive watching, ,Janicaud left the dormitory
without the assistant master or any of the pupils noticing it. The next
morning when it. was time to get up he was in his bed like the rest of them,
but his pillow and his watch had disappeared. From his fatigue and his
exhausted aspect, it was evident that he must have been up during the night.
Search was made all over the house and the surrounding garden, but without
success. At last, during the day, something white was seen on the zinc roof
of the infirmary: it was Janicaud's pillow which he had put there during the
night, with his watch and a bunch of flowers from the garden. Some marks
discovered on a glass frame, indicated the perilous path which the
somnambulist must have followed in order to mount the roof, and also to
descend from it. In his waking state it is evident that he could not llave
attempted such an ascent, without the certain prospect of a dangerous fall.
The risks run by Janicaud during these nocturnal expeditions, soon
necessitated precautiolls for his safety. Every night he was secured by a
padlocked band round his wrist, fastened to the end of an iron chain which
lAccording to infonnation obtained from the secretary of the institute, Dr. Cressant
did not carry out hia project. Like myself, and many other medical men, he probably
drew back in face of the disapprobation which these questions then encountered in the
official world of 8cience.
2 G 2
Digitized by Goo~
424 Drs. Dulay and .Azm'n on Clairvoyance, J;c. [Supplement.
was riveted to the bed ; but this was soon seen to be insufficient, for when
his somnambulic state came on, his hand contracted so that it slipped
through the band, and it became neceBBary to attach him by the leg above
the ankle.
One evening about 11 o'clock, Janicaud, having escaped from the dormi-
tory, knocked at the door of my bedroom:
.. I have just arrived from Vendome," he said, "and have come to give
you the news of your family. M. and Mme. Arnault are well, and your
little son has four teeth."
" As you have seen them at Vendome, could you go back again and tell
me where they are at present 1"
"Wait . . • I am there . . . They are sleeping in a room on the first
lIoor; their bed is at the farther end of the room, to the left. The nurse's
bed is to the right, ana Henry's cradle close to it."
The description of the room and the position of the beds were perfectly
exact, and the following day I received a letter from my father·in-law telling
me that my child had cut his fourth tooth.
A few days later, Janicaud came to me at about the same time, telling me
that he had again come from Vendome. and that an accident had happened
to the child during the day. My wife, being much startled, anxiously
inquired what the accident was.
.. Oh! do not be frightened, Madame, reassure yourself, there will be no
serious consequences, whatever the doctor, who is now with the child, may
think. If I had known that I should have caused you so much alarm, I
should not have spoken of it. It will be not.hing."
The nell:t morning I wrote to my father-in-law to tell him what Janicaud
had said, and begged for news of the child by return of post. The answer
was that he was perfectly well, and that no accident had taken place.
But in the month of September, when I went home for the holidays, I
learnt the whole truth, which my father-in-law, on the advice of thtl doctor,
had hidden from me. He told me that at the time when Janicaud came to
tell me that an accident had happened, the doctor did not expect the child to
live through the night. During the day the nurse, haying got hold of the
key of the cellar, had become completely intoxicated, and the child having
been fed by her when in this condition, was seized with violent sickness,
which endangered his life for several days.
One night Janicaud suddenly jumped up in bed, and turning to one of
. his companions said:
.. See, Roullet, how careless you are. I certainly told you to shut the
door of the bookbinding workshop, but you did not do it, and a cat, in eating
the paste, has just knocked over the dish, which is broken into five
pieces."
Someone went down at once to the workshop, and it was found that what
the somnambulist had said was perfectly correct.
The following night he related how he saw on the Gleny road the body of
a man, who had been drowned while bathing in the Creuse, and that he
was being brought to Gueret in a carriage. Next day I made inquiries, and
heard that an inhabitant of the town had really been drowned the previous
day at Gleny, and that his body had been brought to Gueret during the
Digitized by Google
Supplemeut.] Drs. Dulay and Azam on ClaiMJoyance, the. 425
night. But nobody in the house, not even in the town, had known of the
accident the day before.1
M. Badaire continues to report 88 follows :-
M. Simonet, the assistant master, and Janicaud's brother-in-law, once
conaulted him when in the IOwnambulic state, about his child, who had been
sdoring for lOme months from a cyst behind the ear, which the doctora
feared might result in decay of the bone. Janicaud pronounced their fearB
groundlen, and recommended the use of a certain herb, which grew in the
garden, and which he undertook to gather for them.'
But the IOmnambuliat, walking barefoot, accidentally stepped upon a
thom, and the shock woke him before the plant W88 secured.3
The child recovered lOOn after, as Janicaud had said it would.
One night Janicaud went to the director {M. Badaire) begging for leave
to go out and post a letter which he had just written to a former pupil, to
whom he W88 much attached. As this was of course impracticable, he was
told that it should be posted for him, and M. Badaire ran upstairs to wake
the 888iatant master and ask him to watch the boy in his absence. He
then went straight to Dr. Cr888&nt and the two together examined the
letter. It W88 an eloquent and touching expreuion of sadnen cona&quent
on the departure of his friend, and an eamest prayer that conatant corre-
spondence might mitigate his pain. .. The dream in which thy troubled
imagination is wandering, carries thee hlwk, if only for a moment,to the side
of him who mourna thy absence. Thy right hand resting on thy heart,
betrays to me the secret of thy sadDen. Thy left hand, lying open on thy
disordered bed, seems 88 though ready to grasp that of him who reads into
thy lOul." •
A more recent event serves to show the rapidity with which Janicaud
wrote during somnambulism. Just before retiring to bed the pupil-
teachers had been given the subject of an exercise in style for the following
day: one of them suspecting tbat Janicaud would write his composition
during the night, provided himself with a pencil and paper. Accordingly
about half.past ten the boy attempted to get up, but finding himself chained
to his bed, begged one of his companions to give him writing materials.
This W88 done; and in the dark, with his night-cap drawn over his face,5 and
an 888iatant master and several pupils grouped round him, he began to speak
with a loud voice, his pencil at the same time moving rapidly. In a few
minutes the spoken words were neatly written down and covered two
pages.
1 Facts of the same description are reported by Dr. Macario (Du Sommeil, des rives,
et du 8Omll&lIlbuJisme, 1857), who borrowed them from F. Lebeuf. Here also it is a
case of spontaneous 8Omnambulism. (Dr. D.)
I POBBibly comfrey, of whoae astringent propertiea Janicaud may have heard.
(Dr. D.)
I When he got up in the sleeping Htate, he always dreaaed himself completely with
the exception of his feet.
'Dr. ("'reasant had expreaaed a desire to know what Janicaud wrote in the
80mnambulic state, M. Badaire having frequently told him that his style wasthen very
wperiof to What it was ia his normal state.
I He always did this, having been teased by hiacompaniona, and accused of actiag
his somnambulism.
Digitized by Google
426 Drs. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, &:c. [Supplement.
His health now giving cause for alarm, he was sent home for change and
exercise, and while away suffered very few attacks, and these only during
the first few days. One which took place two days after joining his family
deserves some notice. He rose up during the night with the fixed determinA-
tion of going fishing. M. Simonet decided to accompany him, and before
starting succeeded in indu'.:ing him to alter the nature of his excursion, and go
and visit a relative residing some distance off. This was done, .Janicaud being
undisturbed from his sleeping condition, either by the noise of barkingdogll, or
by the fatigues of the walk. At last he decided upon going home, and on the
way having come to a narrow and dangerous path by the river, his brother-
in-law begged him to be careful u to where he put his foot. Janicaud,
however, assured him that he could see the better of the two, and as a proof
asked his companion whether he saw the match which was under his left
foot. M. Simonet at once felt under his foot, and sure enough found a
match there. Not only was it very dark, but Janicaud with his night-cap
drawn over his face was lOme 30 paces ahead.
Noteworthy, too, were the meAns which he used to take to free himself
from his chain at night. Once with a pen-knife he cut off a small portion of
a window-8&8h close at hand, and from it modelled a key, with which he
easily undid his padlock.
M. Badaire concludes: It may not be useless to make an obser-
vation of possible interest from a scientific point of view-which is that
during an attack of somnambulism Janicaud is perfectly conscious of the state
in which he finds himself. Indeed, he is generally very well pleased at
his condition, and if attempts are made to awaken him, begs that it may not
be done, as he is 80 much happier than in his waking state. Nevertheless,
after eACh attack he suffers greatly from fatigue, and his appearance is
noticeably Altered. Ought this fatigue to be attributed to the extrAOrdinary
activity of his faculties during somnambulism, or may it be the result of
the shock which he sustaina in pas8lDg from one state to another1
Once awake, Janicaud has not tIle least recollection of what has taken
place in his somnambulic state. But in each attack he remembers perfectly
all that has been said and done in the preceding ones.
In his natural state, Janicaud has an uncertain memory and retains what
he learns with difficulty; but on severAl occasions when he has been study-
ing his history leaaons in bed, the auistant master has taken the book from
his hand and the 80mnambulist has then repeated the five or six pages which
he had just read without omitting a syllable. Awakened immediately after,
he had no recollection of what he had just read and repeated.
BADAIRB.l
* * * * • * •
Before forwarding his report to Dr. Cresaant, M. Badaire had called
together the teachers and pupils of the Ecole Normale and had read it aloud
to them, asking them if they had any observations to make. All declared it
to be scrupulously accurate. A copy of it had also been sent to M. Thery,
then rector at Clermont-Ferrand, who was acquainted with lOme of the
1 M. Janicaud married almost as BOOn as he left the Ecole Normale, and has sinoa
had only one attack of somnambulism, which was a few days after his marriage. Be
has since become Master of the primary school in La. Creuse. .
Digitized by Google
[Supplement. D'rs. Dulay and Azam on Clairvoyance, &c. 427
circumstances, and who was specially interested, having had occasion to
observe similar phenomena at the Lycee at Versailles, of which he had been
: head master.
Many points of similarity will be perceived between the account of
Janicaud and that of Mdlle. R. L. (Revll.e Sciell.tifiqlte, July 16th, 1876. p.
69), but there are also di1ferences.
The attacks were almost daily with both Janicaud and Mdlle. R. L. ; but
though the latter sometimes passed from normal sleep into somnambulism
(like Janicaud) it generally happened that she fell into that condition while
in the waking stste. Both p&B8ed from somnambulism into normal sleep, and
then woke in an ordinary manner, without suspecting the modifications that
had taken place in their sleep. Both, when in the somnambulic state,
remembered perfectly all that had taken place in former attacks, and were also
conscious of the events of their normal existence, whereas in the normal
state, they were completely ignorant of all that they had thought and done
during somnambulism. This is what constituted double personality in both
of them, only it was more complete in Mdlle. R. L., who during her
abnormal existence spoke of her waking self as of another person, calling it
la jille /Jete. With both of them there was considersble development of
memory and intelligence during the attacks.
When it was thought desirable to put an end to an attack, without
waiting for a spontaneous transition into normal sleep, it was necessary
(according to M. Badaire) to firmly preB8 Janicaud's thighs, or to flash a
bright light before his eyes; but the slightest touch on the skin of the neck
or mucous membrane of the pharynx sufficed in the case of Mdlle. R. L.
Both strongly resisted any attempts to bring about this result.
Both walked about and worked in the dark, but Mdlle. R. L. used hEIr
eyes: she was no longer short-sighted, but laid aside her spectacles, throwing
back her head so as to bring the pupil behind the opening of the eyelid,
which was much contracted, owing to the drooping of the upper eyelid.!
Janicaud, on the contrary, saw without the intervention of the physical
organs of sight.
Finally there is one considerable difference. Janicaud perceived things at
a distance as well as though near at hand ; he presented in his spontaneous
somnambulism this phenomenon of mental vision or double sight, usually only
observed in induced somnambulism.
Blois, September, 1888.
lWhen I mentioned in my article in the &we Scientifique (July 15th, 1876) this
removal of short-sightedness in Mdlle. R. L., I put forward the hypothesis of its being
due to the relaxation of the motor muscles of the eye; the drooping and partial
paralysis which occurs at the same time leads one to think that all the infra-orbital
muscles, at least, lose their tonicity.
Digitized by Goo~
Digitized by Google
