{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert M NDE 1038","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert M NDE 1038  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						465  Robert M NDE  1038  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Admitted to the emergency room with chest pain. Treated with clot busting medicine for blockage in vessel feeding the bottom of my heart determined by electrocardiograph. After ninety minutes, I said to the doctor, 'Boy, do I feel dizzy!' I immediately blacked out, and I felt like I sank through the bottom of the stretcher into water. I had the feeling I was flailing my arms to swim back to the surface. I was panicking, fighting for my life (while arguing with myself to let go).


Suddenly I am standing twenty feet away from the stretcher watching the doctor perform CPR on my body. During his time, I was very calm, and noticed I was only a consciousness, no body, no pain, no problems, no worries. It was great! As I watched the doctor perform compressions on my chest I thought, I don't feel anything, this guy can't control whether I live or die. I thought only I can control whether live or die. As soon as I had this thought I was back in my body, and awake. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    9/10/2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was just a seeing consciousness. No form.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt as though I was fully conscious, and alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I do not remember hearing anything.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     When you die it stops hurting, and feels wonderful like the weight of the world has been taken off your shoulders.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When I had the thought only I can control whether I live or die I returned to my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Raised Catholic non practicing at this time

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Not afraid to die. Look forward to it. Disappointed I screwed it up by my thought.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The feelings of peace while out of body was the best.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Disappointed with my new found desire to die.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_m_nde.html