{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_l_nde_4893.html","mytitle":"Robert L NDE 4893","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert L NDE 4893  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2495 Robert L NDE 4893  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was summertime, July 1975, I was eight years old at the time. It was midafternoon. My sister, some of my friends, and me played outside in the driveway on the side of our house. While outside jumping in and out of a broken down Volkswagen bus that we played in daily, some of my friends started talking about this game called the choking game, a game that some of the children in my class would talk about from time to time, and a game that I was oh too curious to play. As the conversation continued, all of us gathered together and decided to play.  I was the first and only volunteer. I was instructed to take ten deep breathes and on the last breathe expel all of the oxygen from my lungs and don't breath.  My friend got behind me, put his arms around me and began to squeeze while counting to ten.  I was still not breathing, one, two, three, next thing I know I am hovering over my friends who are now over my body saying, he's not breathing, he's can't hear us, he's not saying nothing. I didn't understanding what was happening and I was ascending very rapidly away from this world, this reality, crying and scared. I began to scream at the top of my lungs, I can talk, I can hear you, throw me a rope before I drift too high at which time I could no longer see nor hear my friends, nor could I see the earth anymore.

I was hovering all alone crying for my mother, there was no people, no earth, know sun or moon, just a dim neon blue void. It seemed like I was alone for just a minute at which time I noticed light, a translucent being with a head, human-like face, arms, body, and know legs, an angel/spirit, start to approach from my right side, with the voice of a young girl, and started saying, everything is going to be okay, see you can fly. This gave me some comfort and that is when I stop being scared. Another angel spirit-being approached from my left side, with the voice of a young boy saying, 'It's fun here, you will like it here.  Don't you want to stay?' I just watched as the two spiritual beings fly around me, laughing, seemingly having fun. I began to fly around with them and they both asked me again, 'Do you want to stay? See it's fun!' I never replied.  I just smiled as I thought, 'I would like to stay here and play, but I am missing my mother.' They said, 'See, he likes it here, he wants to stay.' It was like they had read my thoughts.

While flying around having a little fun, a large translucent head approached us very rapidly. It was only a head and face of an old wise man with no body.  The head seemed to be the size of a house, ten times the size of us. The angel/spirits began to speak first saying, 'He likes it here.  He wants to stay.' The large head of the wise old man replied in a very low deep voice, 'He is not ready.' The angel/spirits replied again, 'But he likes it here.' The old man responded in a sterner voice, 'He's not ready.' Again, the angel/sprits replied, 'Please can he stay? He really likes it here.' This the wise man responded with a mean expression on his face and with thunderous deep loud voice, saying, 'He's not ready!' This seemed to scare the angel/spirits and shook me a little bit. Because I understood the old man was not talking to me and was directing his wrath towards the angel/spirits for not being obedient to his words, I just stared at the old man. This is the last image I saw in this reality.

In a flash, I was back on earth and lying in my driveway.  All of my friends were around me trying to revive me and splashing water in face. I got up, grabbed the back of my head and noticed a big knot on it, I ran in the house, washed my face and drank some water. I never played that game again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'Clinical death from playing the choking game, a game where you take ten deep breaths and on your last breath expel all your oxygen at which time another person gets behind you, puts their arms around your chest and squeezes your chest and count to ten wh  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest level of consciousness and alertness when I realized that I was no longer on a earth and encountered unearthly spiritual beings.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My transition from earth to the neon blue void was light speed fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The angel/spirits stayed with me, almost like escorts. They gave me comfort and wanted me to stay with them and play. The large head of the old man that approached us at like light speed, seemed to be some type of gatekeeper. He communicated to us that I was not ready yet? I did not know any of them prior to this encounter.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt scared, loneliness, love and curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was just 8 at the time and my understanding at the time was only of God!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have déjà vu in detail.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part when the old wise man said that I was not ready.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started telling people about my experience when I was around twenty-five years old, I was reading an article about near death experiences in an 'OMNI' magazine, and realized that I had one when I was younger. Most people just look at me when I tell them and say that is very deep.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because nothing like that ever happened like that before and I have yet to experience that reality again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Your brain remembers images and real events that play out in your mind, the events that occurred in my mind at that time was definitely a real reality.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When I was four years old I was awaken by a brilliant light, brighter than the sun with the image of a man in the center saying you have been blessed my son, the same image has appeared to my son also when he was four years old.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_l_nde_4893.html