{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert J Probable NDE 5226","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert J Probable NDE 5226  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2733 Robert J Probable NDE 5226  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was four years old and suffering from a progressively worsening life-threatening pneumonia.  I had a temperature of about 106 degrees. After the family physician could not offer more than empathetic words my parents called the elders of their church to anoint and pray for my recovery. My father held me in his arms as he, my mother, and the elders prayed during which time I found myself floating near the ceiling of the bedroom. The whole prayer and OBE experience seemed very short, less than a minute. 

The following night my fever broke and I began to recover. I recovered in about a week but was so weak that I had to relearn how to walk. A calcified lesion in the upper area of my left lung is evidence of that experience with pneumonia.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1933

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   While floating near the ceiling of the bedroom.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While floating near the ceiling of the bedroom.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Perception of being out of my body and near the ceiling of the bedroom was very clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Astonishment, wonderment, awe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Pentecostal Assemblies of God

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     From an ultra-conservative Christian belief system to an ultra-latitudinarian natural science and spiritual knowledge system.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Integral Natural Science-Mysticism

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     From an ultra-conservative Christian belief system to an ultra-latitudinarian natural science and spiritual knowledge system.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My experience of 'I' at four years old was certainly my dominant ego-state. Since then, as I mentioned above, additional consciousness expansion experiences have brought me to the realization of unity with our Source and an interdependent intercommunicating relationship with other entities in the Cosmos, i.e. I have gone from 'I' to 'we' in my self-concept and practice.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Even though I was very young (four years of age) the memory of being out of my body was extremely significant to the extent I have recalled the experience many times since and found the knowledge reinforced my confidence in the existence of me, a soul, having life before, during, and beyond my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    Uncertain as to 'how long' but I did share it, I was in a group in which we were sharing such experiences. They were very receptive and showed evidence of using my sharing as positive reinforcement for their belief in OBEs.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     See my response to item 39 above.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     During the seventy-eight or so years since I have many consciousness-expansion experiences of a similar nature, which have served to reinforce the reality of that earlier one.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Life events, yes. But so many I cannot come close to describing them all here. If you want a bibliography of my published work please contact me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You did a reasonably good job of designing the questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_j_probable_nde.html