{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert L NDE 4144","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert L NDE 4144  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2029 Robert L NDE 4144  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the time this happened I had been living in a tent city for contractors in Beaumont after hurricane Ike. After several weeks of non-stop work, we had a weekend off. I had been drinking beer all day, there were some Mexicans camped next to us. They had some moonshine whiskey and all the cocaine you could possibly do. I partied hard into the evening. I don't consider myself to be totally incapacitated in any way. I got up from where we were behind our tents and was walking out to my truck to relieve myself. I do this thing that is like a sneeze but it extends for a few seconds. As I was walking by my tent it happened and I can remember beginning to lose consciousness and falling to the ground.

The next thing I knew I was standing in an incredible bright white light. As I felt the light engulf me (this is where it gets hard to explain), I could feel all the problems, anger, fear and any other negative emotion just lift out of my body. I instantly knew the light was pure goodness and love, like nothing I had ever felt before or since. I noticed some people near me and walked over to them. One was my mother and another was my first wife. There were some others but I'm not able to say for sure whom. My first question was this, 'Is this how it really feels?' It was such a feeling of peace and love I can't describe it. Their answer was 'Yes isn't it wonderful.' 'Yes,' I said. I got to say hello and ask what happens next and they told me I was going back where I had come from but they would be watching over me and we would all be together again. Before I could respond, I opened my eyes and found myself lying on the ground.

It took me a few seconds to realize where I was and what had just happened. Once I realized where I was, I could feel the weight of evil pressing down on me and I know now that this reality that we exist in is ruled by evil. I now have no fear of death and know that where we are is just some place we must go through before we reach the prize that awaits us. The thing I remember feeling most was when I regained consciousness that I was back here where evil does rule. That's my take on it anyway. Think what you like, I'm sure most anyone that reads this will say; oh he was drunk and high and just hallucinated this. Let me tell you this, I've been drunk and high many, many times and have never, ever had an experience like this. I know now that the light I stood in was pure goodness, peace, and love. I felt the presence of God and it is wonderful beyond anything I could ever describe. I didn't see him, or Jesus or angels with harps, nothing like that, but the feeling I had is so incredible, well I have no fear of the other side and when my time comes to go back I welcome it compared to the evil and injustice that dwells here.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  September of 08

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    probably an accidental overdose  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I felt myself going out and remember falling to the ground at the time this happened.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I was in the light, I could not only see it but feel it, it was pure goodness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It seemed like stepping through a doorway of sort.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I've already explained this, my mother died four years ago and my first wife three. We had been divorced for ten years and I rarely even think of her. I was very surprised to see her but nonetheless she was there.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The most brilliant bright pure white light I've ever experienced.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It is very hard to express where i was, kind of like an arrival point like a train station platform. that's not correct but it's the best i can describe it.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace and love like nothing I've ever felt before.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just a profound sense of understanding that the existence we live in here is just not truly what is real.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling that I experienced is very hard to put into words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just seeing my family members and knowing that there is a higher plane of existence than that what we exist in.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After this happened I immediately told the friend I was partying with. He could tell that to me this experience was real and I was convinced that it was real.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real. The feeling of being in the light is like nothing that could be recreated.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Like I said to experience the pure goodness that I felt in the light is something I will never forget. Pure peace, love, and joy like nothing I've ever felt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I guess I've said it all. It's like nothing I've ever felt before or since.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_l_nde.html