{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert D NDE 4929","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert D NDE 4929  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2527 Robert D NDE 4929  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at a friend's barbeque with a few friends. I was eating when I must have inhaled a tiny speck of chip. I immediately realized it went down wrong and with what food still in my mouth I spit it out. However, it did not help I was still losing air and it seemed the flap was beginning to close tighter. I had several people try the Heimlich and hit spots on my back but nothing was happening. I felt panicked scared, frightened, as I saw everyone had a look on their face as if they were helpless. After about two to three minutes, I finally gave out and collapsed to my knees. At that point, I realized it was useless to fight and was accepting what was to be.

At that very moment, I was no longer present in the room.  I felt this warmth.  I was no longer afraid.  I was feeling the undiluted, most-perfect form of peace. Then I was seeing myself in an embryo state positioned over earth looking back at it.  It was as if I was looking at myself but at the same time, I knew it was me. I was no longer afraid of the space or the emptiness.  Rather, it was the exact opposite.  I was calm, reassured, and I was willing to stay there with no regards to any earthly reason to return. It is at that very moment I heard this powerful, serene, caring, authoritative, loving male voice say to me, 'It is not your time, have someone hit you in the lower left area of your back'.

Instantly, I was back in the room with everyone standing around me and I motioned for someone to hit me in the area I was told. Someone did what I asked and my breathing released but it was still laborious to get air in still wheezing and whistling, it took about five minutes to regain breathing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Other: choked loss of air  I was choking with a loss of air into my lungs.  Witnesses said that I was changing color from red, blue, purple and they could hear me whistle as I try to breathe in air.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was having the vision or waking dream, not sure if it you can call it that?

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was an irrelevant concept.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity of the mind, an innate truth was revealed or maybe always have known. What we learn in our everyday life is nothing in comparison to the truth I have witnessed and felt, it was like all the answers to questions were so simple yet we never reach this level of consciousness. TIME SEEMED TO BE IRRELEVANT OF NO CONCERN AT THAT POINT, IRRELEVANT.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    People and voices were fading prior to my second experience of outer body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I did not see or met another entity, but I felt in my soul a voice of some kind of connectedness was separate from me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was suspended as an embryo  in space  some distant from earth but looking down at it

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Actually there was the absence of earthly emotions. Pure and utter sense of peace and contentment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   non practicing catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It is hard to explain, but all questions that were ever asked were innately there in that level of consciousness but I could not remember what it was when I returned to the people around me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Knowledge of what it is about death, no words can describe the feeling of content.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have an innate ability to see truth when I look at people, never can say what it is but I did sense if they are true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The outer body experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my professor at school. They told me I had an NDE. We didn't talk about it much, but my teacher said when you are ready you should share your experience because it was not a typical NDE I had. I am still not sure what they meant?

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It seemed I was given an opportunity again, however, because of the incident of choosing I have and still suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder whenever I eat.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because nothing like this is ever made aware in my everyday life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_d_nde.html