{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert E NDE 2967","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert E NDE 2967  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1051  Robert E NDE  2967  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  The first experience took place at the time when my blood pressure was crashing and my pulse rate was so fast I felt like my heart was breaking through my chest. I was tired of the fight.

In my vision, I found myself in a dark and barren hospital room. Besides the brightly illuminated bed I was in, the only other item in this room was a plain wooden chair up against a wall. The chair area was also brightly illuminated. In the penumbra, you could barely make out the outline of a doorway through which entered my clone who proceeded to sit in the chair.

At this moment, I swung my legs over the side of the bed and faced my companion. I wanted to rip out my heart, which felt, alien and unfriendly. My companion seemed clearly aware of all my feelings. After all, we were one and the same. He said the following, 'Robert, you can choose to stay or check out.' As he said this, I envisioned my wife and how much sexuality I felt towards her, I also saw my two young children and felt how important my guidance and love for them was. I said to my companion, 'I'm not checking out.'

With this, he rose and left the room. I laid back on the bed and the vision ended.

Even though I was in a medically induced coma, I am aware of my mind being very lucid. I was aware of most things taking place in the room. On various occasions, I was floating above my physical body observing what was taking place. During a different period I had visions which became reality well over a year later, most of these were of a sexual nature and very emotional. I was unconscious for three weeks until I was weaned from the respirator; I have no idea of when my experiences took place other than the episode with my hypotension and rapid heart rate.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11 years old   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   In the intensive care unit, medically induced coma, tracheotomy, septicemia, third spacing, blood pressure 50/0, pulse 160.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I am not aware of having been conscious nor alert.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am not aware of having been conscious nor alert.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were very vivid as well as my sense of smell in my visions. My visual ability captured more information than normal.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     These beings were for the most part individuals I knew or would know of at a later date.  Some of the communications were of things which were occurring in real time outside my environment in addition to events which were to occur in the future.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     i visited the artic and northern maine  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt anguish (emotional pain).  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I experienced events that would come to pass over a year later. My level of awareness was quite high.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   non practicing catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     There is more than just our physical presence.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   struggling with the idea of a creator  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is more than just our physical presence.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I recounted my visions shortly after my physical recuperation. I don't think their reaction was noticeable. Let's say skeptical. No influence.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was aware of some individuals having NDE's from some television programs, newspapers, etc.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real        

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have lived what my vision showed me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       To me the most reasonable explanation to my experience is that the mind is never at rest and when it finds the physical being incapable of performing, the mind is free to travel.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_e_nde.html