{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_h_nde_22441.html","mytitle":"Robert H NDE 22441","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert H NDE 22441  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared NDE  			2601 Robert H NDE 22441  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience is as follows.  I found myself in an emergency room full of doctors.  They were wearing green masks over their mouth and a bonnet on their head with a smock.  Typical Emergency Room attire.  I was also wearing the same things and standing behind another doctor.  I looked over his shoulder and saw me there on the Emergency Room bed.  So, I went out the double doors leaving the Emergency Room, and found myself opening the front door of my house.  I walked down the hallway to my bedroom.  I stood at the foot of my bed where my wife was asleep.  I reached down and shook her legs.  She jumped up and called my name.  The phone rang in the kitchen.  She got out of bed and I let her pass by me.  I followed her down the hall way as far as the front door.  As she continued to go to the kitchen, I said I have to get back now and I love you.  I went out the front door of our house and found myself on my back laying down with the doctors hovering over me. When my wife answered the phone, it was the hospital telling her that I am was at the hospital and for to come right away.  That they were not sure if I was going to make it.  After she got off the phone and leaving the kitchen, she noticed the front door was left open.  She closed the door and got ready to go to the hospital.

My accident happened on Monday May 30, 1996 on Memorial Day. The roads were wet and the exit was under road construction with concrete barriers on both sides.  The exit was posted forty-five miles an hour.  There was a slight mist in the air.  I hit a pothole and caused the front forks to collapse, bending the front forks in and locking the front tire into the exhaust pipes.  I was thrown over the handle bars, flipping the bike over and the rear tire hit me in the back.  Then I went unconscious.  The Highway Patrol didn't release the police report for three months until the road construction was finished.  They showed a diagram of the newly completed exit.  While I was in the hospital, my wife got my 1982 Yamaha bike back from the Highway Patrol.  I had her take pictures of my damaged bike.  Showing the front tire smashed into exhaust tube. 

I was released on 4 July 1996 from the hospital, for a one night stay home.  My neighbors had fireworks in front of their house.  So our family joined with theirs.  Letting fireworks off in the street, my neighbor asked me what happened the night of my accident.  And as I was telling him and his wife, my wife said I was dead on arrival and they were not sure I was going to make it or not.  My neighbor jokingly asked if I had an out of body experience or saw a white light.  I told him I didn't see a white light.  But I did tell him and his wife about my out of body experience.  This was the first time I had said anything to anyone about it.  Even my wife and I had never talked about it prior.  Then my neighbor asked my wife if she felt me touch her legs?  My wife answered that she did feel me when I shook her legs and she woke up. She mentioned that then the phone rang in the kitchen.  They mentioned how scary that must have been, but I said not really for me.  I felt a peace and calmness about myself.   

Now, I am a true believer that even though our body dies, that our spirit lives on.  And I have a sixth sense now - That, I am telepathically connected to another person.  And by the way, I don't take drugs, I was tested for drugs the night of my accident.  I hope by sharing my out of body experience.  That it might help others.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death Heart stopped.  I had a motorcycle accident that left me paralyzed. I was dead-on-arrival. My heart had stopped and I was at one hospital for thirty-six hrs. I also had a collapsed left lung a broken tibia bone on my left leg.  I broke my back in two places. Then I was transferred to another hospital. There I was in ICU for nine days where I received surgery on my back.  Then I was transferred to another hospital where I spent three months.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious at the time of my experience.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, really. I just felt that I needed to tell my wife that I love her.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Maybe to share my story with others who may be dying. To let them know that's ok. That the spirit lives on.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I opened and left open the front door to my house.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   For some reason I knew that when the phone rang I had to go back. No idea why.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that after your body dies, the spirit lives on.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel and know that I am telepathically connected with another person. And would love to prove it if I could somehow.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I guess the best part was when I grabbed my wife's legs to wake her up. There was no worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My neighbors and my wife. About a year ago at a donut shop.  An elderly couple came in for coffee and doughnuts.  They sat down at a table across from where I was setting.  He asked me what had happened to me.  I told him and his wife my story.  His wife said after hearing my story.  She also is a true believer that there's life after death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just to share my experience with others.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask if there was any change to the physical condition of your body after your experience. Such as permanent loss of senses or losing the ability to walk. After all, I have gone through, I believe you have to have a good personality about yourself and life in general. When your body dies, it isn't over. There is life after death.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_h_nde_22441.html