{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_h_nde_22351.html","mytitle":"Robert H NDE 22351","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert H NDE 22351  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2476 Robert H NDE 22351  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was wearing a green hospital gown and mask.  Standing in a room with other people wearing the same clothes.  I looked over someone's shoulder to see what was going on. I saw that it was me in the hospital bed in an emergency room. I ran out of the room, through the double doors, and found myself walking down the hallway of my house.  I went into my bedroom and saw my wife asleep in bed. I went to the foot of the bed and grabbed her legs. She then setup and called out my name ‘Robert.’  Before I could say anything.  The phone rang in the Kitchen.  She got out of bed and I stood off to one side as she went by me to go and answer the phone.  I walked behind her and said ‘I have to go.’  But she could not hear me.  I then turned and went out the front door of our house.  I then found myself lying in the hospital bed with doctors all over me. I was in the trauma hospital for thirty six hours. 

Then once I was stabilized, I was transferred to another hospital.  Then I had surgery on my back. I was in ICU for nine days.  The longest they have ever had in ICU. 

Then I was transferred to another hospital for the next three months.  I was released from the hospital for a one night only stay at home on July 4th, 1996. My family and I was at my neighbor's house celebrating the 4th at 9:00 PM. When my wife said that I was dead on arrival at the arrival to the hospital the night of my motorcycle accident.  Then my friend Steve asked me if I had an out of body experience.  I said ‘yes I did.’  I told him the above story for the first time with my wife present.  My wife said that she had felt me grab her legs and she woke up and called my name.  Steve asked if I saw a white light or anything else.  I said no

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 30, 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   My Heart had stopped.  Bruised aorta collapsed left lung, broken back in two places.  Which left me a paraplegic.  And a broken tibia bone in my left leg.  Damaged rotator cup in my left shoulder.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt that I was in my normal body at the time I went to wake up my wife.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Well I felt very alert and a sense of peace that everything was going to be OK.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just my wife and a room full of doctors.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     While out of body I felt that I was all there.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None really.  Just wanted to let my wife know that everything was going to be alright.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I went through the double doors at the Hospital.  And opened the front door to my house.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Not a religious person.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel like I now have a sixth sense.  Telepathically connected to someone else.  And if I knew how to prove it.  I would.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I never gave that much thought.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It gives them a sense that when the body dies, the spirit lives on.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just wanted to share my experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can't think of any at this time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_h_nde_22351.html