{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_h_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert H Possible NDE 22035","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert H Possible NDE 22035  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert H Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1907 Robert H Possible NDE 22035  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember being transported to this new world it seemed like.  I remember seeing a brightly colored dome, spires, and living a whole life somewhere else. I remember being clothed in simple garb.  The feeling of love was enveloping all around me.  There was no fear or sorrow whatsoever.  I saw colors that seem to mix together in glimmering iridescence.  It was pure joy and happiness.  It felt more real than anything I've experienced on earth.  I did not want to leave and I was thrown back into my body it seemed.  I was so upset because I was ready to go.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  05/2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Form seemed human but not of any concern. It didn't matter.  It was of no use.  It just was.  Hard to describe.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   Time didn't matter.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It is hard to describe. My senses were all encompassing.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete love.  Surrounded by it.  All knowing of it.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     All knowing, but it was so simple.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Christian

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It was the most beautiful experience I ever had.  Not afraid of the transition.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The magnitude of love.  The colors.  The feeling.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm starting to see 11:11 and ones a lot.  Lots of ones.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst was coming back.  The best was the whole experience there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tell everyone I know.  Some believe, some don't, and some think I hallucinated.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It just felt completely real.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_h_possible_nde.html