{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_e_nde_5130.html","mytitle":"Robert E NDE 5130","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert E NDE 5130  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2667 Robert E NDE 5130  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One Tuesday evening in February 2006, I was feeling ill like I had a flu bug. I was sitting on my sofa watching TV around 4:15 pm. Then I started feeling like I had to vomit. I ran to my downstairs bathroom, knelt down over the commode to vomit, but nothing happened. About two minutes later I had a sensation I had never felt before, my whole insides were coming up like an eruption but nothing happen. 

Next thing I knew, I was on a beach and sky was so beautiful and bright, the sand was so white everything was so peaceful. Then a figure appeared from a distance that looked like a lady holding a child by the hand. The figure waved at me once then again and said, 'No, go back.' 

When I came to, I was so weak, still on my knees trying to analyze what had just happen, when I realized it I was frightened a little and crawled very quickly out the door just as my wife came in from work and right there was when I threw up in the hallway. This experience only lasted about thirty seconds or less, but I first went into the bathroom around 4:45 pm and my wife came home at 5:25 pm. Other than my wife and three family members this is the first time I have shared this experience with anyone else.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   4:15 - 4:45pm.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       4:15 - 4:45pm.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I figure I passed out around 4:45 pm and came to at 5:25 pm but my NDE lasted about thirty seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    That following weekend my wife and I went out of town for a romantic getaway, and I had to be taken to a local hospital for severe headache and found out later I developed tinnitus.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Looked like a lady and child about twenty to thirty yards from me. My wife's mother had passed in March of 2005, I thought maybe it was her but could not tell. She waved her hand and I went back.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Just the brightness of the beach.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     a beautiful beach

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peacefulness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   nondenominational

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have grown closer to know the word of God and I attend church regularly volunteer, and mentor youths.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have grown closer to know the word of God and I attend church regularly volunteer, and mentor youths.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my wife, that evening and my brother and his wife about a week later they were amazed and believed me. By them being involved in church they have heard of an experience like this before.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I analyze things before I come to any conclusions and I did this of this experience very carefully. My final outcome was that this was for real!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still to this day know what happened and I believe with all my heart that it did.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It confirmed my beliefs that there is a better place when we died if you have prepared yourself for that place.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not at this time, GOD BLESS.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_e_nde_5130.html