{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert C NDE 150","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert C NDE 150  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Robert C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						6650  Robert C NDE  150  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description 3/23/13  					</p>

  					 The First One


The Set Up


In September of 1965, on a bright and sunny morning, my life changed forever.


My car, an old 1951 Ford that my dad had given to me the year before for my 16th birthday, was in the shop. The owner owed my Dad a lot of money for all the tires he went through as a circle track racer so Dad made a deal with him to fix up my car. The motor was a flat-head 8 and was fine for any 16 year old at the time, but Dad had other ideas.


Joe had built an engine for his racecar from a 1953 Ford truck engine. He went through it and did everything he could to squeeze more power out of it including balancing and blueprinting. When he took it to the track, the racing committee said 'NO!' It was too much for the track and so he was stuck with this monster. So now, he needed another engine to rebuild and to make less deadly.


Dad decided it would be a good idea to put an engine that was banned from a racetrack in my car.  I was without a car on a really huge weekend. I had made a date with an older woman, the 18-year-old cousin of a girl who I also lusted after. We were going to the drive-in and we were going to waste no time with the movie. She had already shown me serious skin and kissed as if she was going to devour me.


I pleaded with dad to use the real car, my brother's 1959 Impala. He had left it with dad for safekeeping but when he got to France, he said we could keep it. He bought a 1956 Mercedes Gull wing when he got to Nancy and got settled in at the air base. He later moved to Paris.  A truck that tipped over while going around the big traffic circle near the embassy crushed the car. Another reason I refuse to drive while in Paris, ever!


Dad ask mom if she minded and she said that as long as I dropped her off early Saturday morning with my sister across town in Sodaville, she was fine with the idea.


I got up extra early Saturday morning and called Kathy to see if she wanted to make a whole day of it and go to the coast, then to the drive-in. She sounded excited and we set up a time. I was waiting in the car for Mom for what seemed like hour until she finally came out and settled in.


As we drove over the bridge in to town, she remarked on how pretty the river was and told me to take the road along the east side of town along the river.


As we were about to turn on to River Road a very odd thing happened.


Let me go back in time a bit. When I was about 3, dad and mom loaded me up in the old Chevy, a 1947 Sedan I believe, and we took off down the hill to town. The neighbor's horse had walked through the gate at the bottom of the hill and when Dad hit it, it came through the front window in between mom and dad and ended up on me, head first. I have no real memory of that but I know I was unhurt. However, after that happened I started doing odd things that upset dad a lot. Like the time we were over half way to town in the '51 Ford and I turned around in the seat and started yelling that the barn was on fire. We were so far away from the house there was no possible way I could have seen flames or even a glow but I would not relent. Dad was yelling at me to shut up and finally slapped me. That did no good so he angrily turned around a drove back home, thinking that a screaming brat had ruined dinner. As we pulled in to the driveway, a small flame flickered in to sight under the barn.


Dad had been drying corn in an old tin bushel tub over another one with a bed of coals. They were set up on bricks but a coal had dropped through a rusted out hole in the tub and dropped to the straw. The fire was just gaining a hold when we got home and Dad easily put it out with the hose.


He did not speak to me for a really long time after that, just watched me.


A few more events like that including running away from the little one room school at the base of the hill in the middle of a lesson, just in time to find my mom had fallen through the back door window while on a ladder cleaning the gutters. She had badly cut her arm and I stopped the bleeding and called the neighbors to come help. That also was rewarded with a quiet that countered mom's over stated praise.


Back to 1965


Anyway, back to 1965. As we turned on to River Road I had an overwhelming feeling that something was wrong. I stopped the car and put on the seat belt. I had never worn one, my old Ford did not have them, and I was adamant that Mom put hers on also. She refused saying it hurt her hernia and she would be fine. I relented and we had a pleasant drive along the Santiam River with Mom commenting on the sites and me thinking about getting laid.


As we turned off the river and headed to Hwy 20, she suggested we take the short-cut, to Sodaville Road. This was a short gravel road and at the time was overgrown with bushes so you were driving through dense plants on each side, ones that leaned in to the road. At the end of the road was a raised railroad crossing, one of those where you have to drive up and over the track. The crossing sign was so old it had collapsed and the 'X' was almost straight up and down. The sun was over my shoulder and the bushes were brightly lit. The brush had not been cut back for the year and the tracks were raised just enough that you had to slow down to get over them. This has changed now as they have lowered the track and removed most of the brush from around the tracks.


As I slowed down to look, I could not see down the track to the left. I drove forward and heard a thud.


NDE


I was flying through a swirling blue tube, so fast.


As I came 'up' into the open I was on the edge of a huge area with , for lack of a better word, souls as far as I could see, some close, some forever far away, but there was a deep sense of perfectness, quiet, and wonder. It was like being with everyone who had ever lived or ever would all at once. I could feel different people. I felt such overwhelming joy and love.


The fact that there is no 'there', no sight, sound, anything we can relate to, it is the best I can do to put the whole thing in words that may make sense.


As I came up to the edge I was met and embraced by such a powerful feeling of joy, good, and wellbeing that I began to forget everything before. I could remember everything that had ever happened to me, see the faces of everyone I had ever known and this was all at once and forever at the same time, well, I use the word time because that is what we know, but there is no time there.


I was given a very direct choice of whether to stay or return but was encouraged to return.


The only way to describe what happened next was to have you visualize being braided like strands of flowing water with other souls, made whole, and returned in to this world to a point above the car. I could see the whole world, then the horizon, then the scene below me.


There was a train with our car stuck to the front, a crowd of frantic people; an ambulance was pulling up, fire trucks, cars and trucks stopped on both sides of the road. I watched this for a very long time, then the strand continued down in to the car and I was back inside my body.


I opened my eyes to bright white. My right arm was free so I lifted it and brought it to my eyes only to find cloth covering me. I pulled it off, heard people yelling, and a few screams. As I looked over a woman who was holding my Mom's head fainted.


There was a flurry of panic and excitement and one of the guys started talking to me. I focused on what was going on and realized there was a train in my lap. My legs were bent back at the knee just a bit, the coupler was atop my lap and the knuckle was resting just to my right. The seat belt had pulled me down with the frame of the car and held me while the couple came through the door, or really, over the door.


I felt no pain, just a lot of pressure but my right hand had a piece of window glass though it between the thumb and fingers and I was watching it start to bleed. Blood had been pooling in my arm and now things were working again so the blood was really coming out.


They wrapped my hand with the glass shard still in, I guess to keep it from bleeding even more.


The medic ask me if I could understand him. I told him 'Hell yes, get this fucking train off me!'


I ask about Mom and they said, as they got her out of the car and in to the ambulance, that she had made at least seven trips from the front seat to the back seat, like a rag doll.


The tires were on the ties and none of them had lost air so it was a very bumpy trip. 510 feet sideways down a railroad track. To put that in perspective, think two football fields minus 30 yards.


The sheet had been put over me by one of the ambulance guys. He found no pulse, no breathing (he said he used a hand mirror to see if there was any breathing) and my hand was not bleeding. They were all convinced I was gone for good so when I pulled the sheet off after so long a time it was a real shock!


It is hard to figure out just how long I was gone but the train hit us, traveled 510 feet, cars stopped, the ambulance was called and they had been there long enough to get Mom almost out of the car when I came back. The hospital is 4 miles from the crash so they may have taken 5 or 6 minutes to get there.


The reason it is so hard to put a time line on the event is that there is no time there. It seemed like a lifetime that I was there. There was so much to learn. I tell people it is kind of like being a person living in a deep forest that has never seen anyone but his friends and family, never seen a plane in the air. Suddenly a helicopter drops a net on you and takes you at the speed of light to Times Square at midnight , leaves you there for a few minutes, then flies you back, drops you in the middle of your village and your friends all run up and ask 'What was it like?'


Getting Out


I was told to stay calm and still. They could not see my left side but there was blood visible, and my head had a small cut above the left eyebrow that was bleeding a lot. The car had been filled the day before so there was gas everywhere. They could not figure out how to get the train off me. They could not use cutting torches because of the gas. They let the air out of the tires thinking that would lower the car. No luck. I finally told them to go and get the tie down chains off the Rose Logging truck because the trailer was up and it was empty and ties the car to the tracks and back the train off.


One guy said 'What about your legs?


'What the hell? Are you afraid you're going to hurt me? Christ!'


So they got the chains off the truck, wrapped them around the ties, hooked them to the frame and the engineer started to back the train up. There was an awful sound of steel on steel as the knuckle slid over my lap.  My legs bent backwards even farther and I could feel everything pulling from my waist down. The pain was intense and I saw white dots. Suddenly the door sprang up and away from me, my legs popped up a bit, and my arm was free. I was pretty torn up from the upper arm to below my elbow, but that was all the damage I could see. They got me on to the stretcher and examined me, prodding and poking to assess any internal injury. In the ambulance, I spent a great deal of time floating in and out and watching from above as we passed through town. I remember thinking how beautiful the day was.


A State Policeman went to our tire shop before he found out I was still alive and asked Dad if he knew a John. Dad said he was his son and lived in LA. The cop told him the car was out by highway 20 and the boy in it was dead. This was a while after they got me out.


He took off for the hospital where he was told the woman would be.


When he got there, he rushed in to the emergency room and past me. He ran over to Mom, who was in a coma and was being treated for all of her injuries, including broken ribs, a concussion, broken kneecaps, and lots of cuts and bruises.


As Dad was standing there in shock, I spoke up and asked how Mom was. He almost fell over.


He rushed over and grabbed me as I told him I was sorry for wrecking the car and hurting Mom. He was so confused and excited he could not say much except 'to hell with the car' and 'Ruth will be fine!'


Dead on the Radio


The whole day KGAL had been telling everyone I died in a train crash. This was annoying as that was the station I was listening to in the hospital bed. I had the nurse call my friend Larry, Kathy and Carrol, and my sister so they would know I was still alive.


A full day of being dead on the radio was a really odd thing. My dad even tried calling out there and saying I was alive but they thought he was a prank caller and hung up on him. Finally, later that night about 11:00 after having a few shots, dad drove out to the studio and stopped them from playing requests in my honor, told them I was in the hospital and that yes, they could call me in the morning.


They did but who listens to the radio on Sunday morning?


After hearing myself be dead on the radio all day and being told that I would not be able to walk for several weeks, I started ringing for a nurse. I had to go to the bathroom really bad and they would not come and help. I got up out of bed and fell on the floor, dragged myself up and fell again, and again, and again but I made it to the bathroom. When I was done, I was in no mood to lay down so I held myself up on the bar that runs along the wall, pulled myself along the wall to the door, out the door and down the hall. I kept getting my legs under me and walking by lifting my hips and letting my legs fall ahead. This worked well enough that I made it all the way around the hall from my room and back again.


By this time about an hour later, I was able to balance without the bar as long as I did not let my knees bend forward.


Must have looked pretty funny.


I got up about six more times in the night and walked so by the morning when the doctor came in I got out of bed and told him off for telling me I could not walk.


I was still on a lot of drugs for the pain but was in a much better mood. Mom was across the hall and I went over often to check on her.


Larry showed up with the books I had asked for and I lay back in the bed like a dead guy, breathing raspy short breaths and moaning. He was only there for a minute and started to leave. I sat up and said, 'Hey! Where you going'?' He almost slugged me.


Monday morning some lawyers from Southern Pacific came and they talked Dad in to settling for $250,000 instead of suing. That was a lot of money then and Dad needed it for the tire shop so I signed a paper and that was that. I later learned that the brakeman had a heart attack when he saw the car on the tracks; the train was going 45 MPH (they told everyone it was going 30 mph) and did not blow a whistle before the crossing. They were hauling lumber out of a mill and were full. That is why it took so long to stop.


On Tuesday, I was back in school on crutches. As people would see me they would either scream, faint, or just stare.


My first class was Biology with Paul. I sat in my usual seat and when he read the roll call, he skipped my name. I waited for a few names then said 'Hey! You forgot me!' I swear half the class about fell of their chairs and so did Paul. All we talked about for the rest of the day in any class was the wreck, who saw it, why they said I was dead, why wasn't I dead, and what was it like being dead.


After a few days, I tossed the crutches and began to realize I was not the same person who had left on that Saturday morning.


Without thinking about it too much or realizing this was not normal, I began to see, hear, smell, and fell EVERYTHING around me. I could hear what people were saying across the room and the same time I was watching something else. It was like being in the 360-degree lens I was in during my ascent back to the car. It was a little overwhelming and it took a long time to get used to it. Then when I did, I just assumed everyone was doing the same thing. To this day, I still am amazed at how little people see and hear of what is around them. I have put to good use over the years in the Army and just about every day this talent.


The other odd thing is my hands. They heat up so much they almost glow. I can put my hands a foot away from someone and they can feel the heat. I have worked with people who have joint problems, and other health issues. They claim it helps but I have no idea what or why it is there.


The next two


August 8th 1994


After three years of a medical trial testing a drug that reduced the production of acid in the stomach, many endoscopy's ( and other-end-oscopys), and the assurance of my Doctor that it would be an easy and quick surgery, a Nissan fundoplication, I went to the VA Hospital in Portland ,Oregon. After prep and a brief meeting with the surgeon in charge, I was put under.


Hello Again


I was back to where I had been many years before, surrounded by light and warmth, and the feeling of familiarity of those who had been close to me in the past. Again, I was bathed in the feeling of perfectness. I was quite suddenly pulled back to the room and I could see the people panicking and feel their dread. I watched as they worked on me and used the paddles to kick-start me. Then I was awake in the recovery room. I was still trying to organize what had happened when one of the nurses and a doctor came in and told me 'Well, three hours in to a two hour surgery, things went bad. My thorax muscles had a spasm and the co2(?) that they had inflated me with was expelled up though my lungs. My heart stopped, my lungs were 'pop corned' whatever that means, and I was gone. The got me back and re-inflated me, finished the procedure, stitched up the little laparoscopic holes and all was well.


They sat me up, gave me a little pillow to hold against my stomach, and told me to breathe carefully and slowly for a few hours. Then the left and another nurse came in and hooked my up to a couple of monitors. My girlfriend came in and sat with me, held my hand, and I dozed off. I woke up feeling very out of breath, as if I had just run a sprint. 'Odd' thought I, as I began to try to breathe in but could only take short small breaths. I told the nurse, whom I had to send Maria to get, that I was sure something was wrong. She assured me that it was normal to feel that way and not to worry.


Out of Body


About an hour later (this was about 6 hours after they had finished the surgery,) I was beginning to feel panicked. I could not breathe in more than a small gulp of air. I felt as if I were drowning! I kept trying to get someone to pay attention to what was going on but they simply would not respond. I sat there and in one moment I shall never forget.   I yelled, stood up, and listened to the monitor go from a pulse to a solid tone. I had flat lined. I was out of my now limp and quite dead body. I floated up and watched in wonder as they ran in to the room.  They threw me on a gurney and ran with me down the hall in to an elevator, then out in to a hall and in to a room where they threw me over the bed on my front, took huge needles and pushed them in to my back and up in to my lung cavity and drained the fluid off. I can still see these two people working in tandem drawing out the grey thick fluid.


The then tuned me over and began to prod. The one doctor with dark hair and an accent jumped up on me, put a scalpel to the skin just under my left nipple, and cut in along the rib. I woke up.


They said you could hear the scream two floors away.


They inserted a rib spreader and then put in a tube. They then repeated the process on my left side under my arm, TWICE. They missed the first time and had to do it again. If you take your finger right now and find the place where you are most sensitive, about half way from your arm pit to where your elbow touches you side and press you will find the place where they cut me open and put in another hose. Three tubes overall. This was a most unpleasant experience and one I do not recommend. Ever.


I spent many weeks on my back with the glopitat-glopitta machine attached to me like a hungry octopus. I became weaker and lost more weight until I was about 165lb. I was being eaten from the inside. When I had deflated, the laparoscopic tools that were inside me nicked a bowel and punctured the pleura, introducing an e-coli infection in to my lung cavity were he and his offspring set up housekeeping and were very happy, warm, and well fed.


3:00 pm


Finally, one afternoon a new face showed up at the door and introduced me to the head of thoracic surgery from San Francisco General. He informed me that I needed to have a cat MRI so he could see how bad things were 'in there' and tapped my chest.


My nice young female doctor , who had shown up a few days prior, told the nurse to draw a blood sample and to fit me with another IV line.4:00 pm


After a valiant effort and about ten tries, she gave up and was called away. My doctor came back and was less than kind to the poor nurse. She picked up my left arm and shoved the needle directly in to the vein. Pure art. She then found the one small vessel left in my right hand and inserted an IV line.


She took my gurney and wheeled it down the hall, down the elevator, down another hall to the MRI room, where the staff had already put on their coats and were headed out the door. She ordered them to put me through and the grudgingly did.


5:00pm


The doctors came in to the room next to the MRI lab and he sat down on the gurney, while she took my hand. 'You are going to die if we do not do this surgery right now.'


I smiled and told them they were too late.


They said I had about a 30% chance of living if they operated within the next couple of hours and brought me a phone. 'Call your family and friends and tell them good-by. 'Good-by, Perhaps


Those calls were the best and worst calls I have ever made. I cry as I write this thinking of the pure love that I felt for those who had been there with me and that were now hearing me say farewell.


As they put me under, I felt the most amazing sense of peace. I opened my eyes to the smiling face of the doctor. He patted my hand and congratulated me on surviving. 'You must be here for some other purpose. You must have work to do.'


They had spread my ribs on both sides, moved my lungs around in my chest, and rinsed out all the junk they could. I guess it was quite a difficult surgery as they kept coming in and telling me how amazing it was that I was still alive.


I left the hospital a few weeks late weighing 162lb. When I went in, I was at 219lb. Not a weight loss plan I would recommend.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1965

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Hit by a train  

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Described above, but I did hover above the wreck and watch everyone. in the second and third I also came out of my body
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Total awareness of everything.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      At the moment I had to choose whether to stay or come back  

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   See above.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    heightened

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    heightened

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:      Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     blue light, very bright and warming  

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     could have been my aunt but hard to say

The experience included:      Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   light permeated everything  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     on the edge of another dimension looking in

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Joy in the first two, annoyance in the last

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I describe it as being a full glass of water suddenly expanded to the end of the universe filling all the way with more water, then shrinking back to normal size, but with REALLY different water.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from my personal future     basic path, no specifics  

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     On the edge of another dimension looking in

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   on the edge of another dimension looking in

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?      Moderately important to me

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?      Not important to me

What is your religion now?      Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?      Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience   I was never really that religious so not much of a jolt. I think I knew all this from a very early age.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     very different feelings about life

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   In and out at once. Hard to describe in words

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?      Uncertain   I saw everyone who had ever lived and who would

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?      No     

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?      Yes     It seems obvious after having been there. One note: We are there now and here  

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?      God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?      No     

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?      God probably does not exist

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion: 

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?      No     

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?      I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?      An afterlife definitely exists   we become one

Did you fear death prior to your experience?      I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?      I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?      Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?     Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?      Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?      Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?      Yes     realizing we are one changes how you deal with people

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?      No     

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?      Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?      No     

Were you compassionate after your experience?      Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?      Large changes in my life     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The hardest to explain was when I had to choose whether to stay or come back  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?    I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   since the first one I have always been hyper aware and can remember in detail almost everything that has happened to me since

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Healing hands, able to read people very well, smarter

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    the next day

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No   

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I saw the train, the people and the logging truck where the tie down chains were I told them to use to tie the car to the tracks

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     

                        Experience Description 12/17/2007


Early in the morning I was driving my dad's 59 Impala. My mom ask me to take the short cut down a small gravel road. We drove up to the tracks (that had not been used in 7 years) and looked both ways, pulled up and over the tracks, heard a clunk...a train doing 45mph hit us on my side. No whistle, and it turns out that the engineer had a heart attack and could not react. We went 510 feet stuck to the front of the train.


I saw a bright blue light surrounding a white soft glow, shot through the light at what seemed a million miles an hour, stopped and was standing(?) on a sill looking in at all the souls who ever were or ever would be, the nearest were familiar, an aunt and some others from the past. I was told I had a choice to stay or go back. I was there for a long time deciding.


They helped me with my decision, showed me great things, knowledge, the future, energy, all things. Then I turned and went back. I describe it to people as being a full glass of water increased in size so that all the things in the world are in the water in the glass, all the knowledge and future and past, all at once. Then when you come back, the glass gets smaller again, but all the stuff is mixed about so you keep some things and lose others.


I hovered above the wreck and saw everything in the world, then less and less until I was just above the car. I saw all the people running around getting my mom out. I was pulled own into myself, opened my eyes and saw white...they had a sheet over my head. I reached up with my free right arm and pulled it off. People screamed and fainted. The ambulance people started freaking out. The train was on me and they had to get it off...I told them to get the tie-down chains from the Rose Logging truck and tie the car to the tracks and back the train off. They did and I was on my way to the Hospital. The Rose logging truck was on the other side of the train 300 feet down the road. When I rode to the hospital I floated in and out a few times and enjoyed riding above the ambulance and seeing all the people looking as we went by.


Other NDEs:


Yes, I think telling about the other two would be good. I went into the VA Hospital in Portland OR in 95 for a simple laparoscopic stomach surgery (heartburn) They put me under and I woke up looking down on myself and then taking off back to the same place I had been 30 years earlier. I was there for a very long time and for only and instant... I was again given a choice to stay or go back and finish my work, whatever that is, so I came back. They had kick started me with the paddles and I woke up in the recovery room, sitting up and feeling really bad.


They gave me a pillow to hold against my midsection and told me to breath deep. After a few hours of this, I began to feel worse and was unable to keep breathing deep. My breath got shallower and more painful. I kept telling them that something was wrong put they said it was normal. I let out the last little bit of breath I had, stood up and turned to see myself sitting collapsed in the chair. The nurses rushed in and started yelling for help. They put me on a gurney and wheeled me down to the emergency ward, threw me over the bed and put these huge needles up my back and pulled the fluids out of my lungs. They then rolled me over and opened me up to put in tubes. I watched it all from above until they put in the rib spreader and inserted the first tube; I woke up screaming with no breath. They put in two more tubes with no painkiller and I began to be able to breathe again.


After 6 weeks and loosing 50 lbs I was told they had to open me up and clean my lung cavities out. They did the catscan at 5:00 and operated at 7:00. I called all my friends and said goodbye, then woke up in bed, this time it all worked.


This reinforced the need to share and heal and give whatever it is that I was given to those in need. I have had various successes over the years helping people that were sick without saying 'I'm going to help you now!' The only person I have talked openly about this is my web designer, Kathy. She has Lupus and I have taken the pain out of her arms, neck and shoulders.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Sept 11 1964

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death I was hit by a train.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Total

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Joy

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Take a Yanamamo from Columbia, drop a net on him and fly him to NY for 10 minutes, take him back, then ask him 'What was it like?'

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     visions, healing

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   two more NDEs


                      Experience Description 7/30/2002


I was hit by a train and dragged 510 ft. down the track (in a car) I left and was flying up through a tube/tunnel of pure blue white light. I came up to and edge and stopped just short of entering. A figure(?) stood in front of me and welcomed me. Past him I could see all the souls that ever were or will be stretching out for ever and felt so warm and safe and welcome. He informed me that I could go back and finish and would be helped. I turned and came back. It was like being filled with all the knowledge in the universe and then as I came back I began to forget things, like there was not enough room to hold it all in human form. I hovered over the wreck and watched them running around trying to get my Mom and me out of the car. The train coupler was on top of me. I had a sheet over my head and they were pulling mom out. I felt pulled down into myself. I opened my eyes, pulled the sheet off and looked at them. The woman holding Mom fainted and everyone got very excited. I told them to tie the car to the tracks and back the train off. The got chains from a logging truck (I told them where to find them. Three hundred feet down the road on the other side of the train...) This was a Saturday and I was back in school on Tuesday.


The next two times were in the Veteran's Administration Hospital in Portland. I went in for simple surgery. I died on the table and had basically the same trip out and back. They nicked my bowel and punctured my lung cavity. I suffocated 8 hrs. later and got up and walked out of my body. I watched as they rushed me in to IC and stuck huge needles up my back to drain the fluids, then I was back in side as they opened me up and put tubes in four places in my chest with no pain killer.


Ow.


I have since had one more major surgery but they did well. ( Eight hrs. to correct the first one. My stomach pulled though my diaphragm and wrapped around my heart.)

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Sept.9 1965, Aug.8th 1995

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentSurgery-related    Clinical death Hit by a train the first time. Surgery the second, suffocated the third.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  pure light

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      absolute clarity

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time does not exist there.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      joy

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     very complicated...time event horizons, grater good...joy of giving...power to know what will happen.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     saw possible lives?

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Had choice. Came back

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   First Christian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   My own

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I fear little and enjoy much of life, even the hard times.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   How do you describe New York City to a Yanamamo, or an elephant to an earthworm?

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Extreme intuition. Also lots stronger physically. I have proven the old adage 'be careful what you wish for, you may get it.'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       no worst except the physical recovery.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    There seems to be more interest nowadays. Lots of 'what is it like' questions.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_c_nde.html