{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_b_nde_2525.html","mytitle":"Robert B NDE 2525","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert B NDE 2525  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						799  Robert B NDE  2525  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I remember waking up underwater and seeing people on shore at the funeral briefly then traveling over the country, hills, water, etc., without form, just as a spirit. I do not know how long this lasted but I was in caverns and could only wiggle through caverns toward the bright lights. At these times, I could hear the nurses or doctors say, 'Stay with us. Stay away from the lights.' (The nurses said later I was wiggling on the gurney and crying. As if going through the tunnels toward the lights.) I have been told by religious persons this means that I must choose between good and evil. (flying over the landscape or the black tunnels, difference between good and evil). I only know I now believe the spirit (soul) lives on. Does not matter about what form of religion one worships. No one has ever come back and said, 'Mine is the one true religion.' If this helps in your research into the hereafter, I am glad to be of help.

I know one has powers not controlled. I had a mother-in-law who died in the hospital but not before all of her children came from different states to give final goodbyes. She was in a coma until the last son arrived from Chicago. Then she died. There are many strange mysteries in life. I believe I was spared to go on for a purpose, but don't know what it is. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1994  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related     Heart stoppage several times  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   Went in for stomach rupture due to exploratory in 1989.  Only with fifty percent lung capacity after successful mesh implant, went to the room and shortly back to intensive care for five days at which time my heart stopped several times.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Don't understand the question.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   After I woke up could not believe I had been out for five days.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     see discription #3  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation, joy, peace and then despair.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe religion has nothing to do with the hereafter. I believe a higher form of spirit prevails in the universe.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe religion has nothing to do with the hereafter. I believe a higher form of spirit prevails in the universe.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared with ex-wife and children.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_b_nde_2525.html