{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_c_nde_4239.html","mytitle":"Robert C NDE 4239","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert C NDE 4239  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2072 Robert C NDE 4239  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was the day I was to have a cast removed from my arm. I had fallen from my clubhouse roof and broken it. I was playing with my brother, and he told me about a neighbor that had built a really nice pool it was designed for diving so it was extra deep.

We went to investigate it. We were playing around and I tripped and fell in. It would have been nothing except for the cast on my arm. I could not swim with it so I tried to walk to the ladder. I didn't make it. I remember breathing water in. All of a sudden, it became brighter and I floated up out of the pool. I could see my body on the bottom of it. My brother was even younger than I was and was powerless to retrieve me. He went to tell my mother, and having done so she became frantic. Two men were painting a home nearby, heard the commotion, and came running to see what was wrong. They were the ones who pulled me out. Someone called the police and an officer arrived. He placed me in the back seat with my mother and sped off towards the hospital. That was some 10 minutes away.

During all of this, I was floating above my body. The officer grabbed me and ran into the hospital yelling. I had turned blue/black from anoxia and someone said 'You cannot bring that [racial slur] in here' - remember it was 1961, pre-civil rights.  

They brought me into the emergency room and began to attempt to resuscitate me. They were not having much success. All this time I was floating around them.

I tried to communicate with them but they did not hear me. I could hear them speaking as well as hearing their thoughts, and they thought it was hopeless.

I had no pain or discomfort. Eventually I began to look around the room and noticed what I can only describe as a black hole or void that followed me around. I somehow recognized it and went into it. I had no fear. When I did this, I found myself in a tunnel of light with a sensation of speed like I was moving faster and faster. I came out the other end into an area that was misty or foggy looking. I heard a voice tell me not to stop but to keep going. I was flying through this misty place for what seemed to be a bit of time and eventually I came to the end. I saw a blackness like a starless sky may look, except there was one light. It seemed small so I headed for it, and as I did, it got bigger and bigger and bigger.  I was going to enter this light. It was now what might be like standing before a sun, except it was of a pure white light. As I was about to enter it two large swirling energy forms with human like shape emerged from it. They asked me (in my mind) 'What are you doing here?' I said 'I'm going into the light'. They said 'It is not your time'.

I tried to assure them I was going into the light but they denied my passage. They were adamant it was not my time. 

I then noticed I was a ball of light. I no longer had the shape of a human being. My consciousness was spherical in all directions at once, and I had a God-like knowing. All at once I saw my entire life pass before me in minute detail. In fact, I saw much more than words and deeds, but how they affected those around me. It was like energy radiating from me that rippled out like a pebble tossed into still water eventually touching everything around it. I saw how my actions hurt others, even indirectly. I was devastated. I had such a great grief I am choked up even now thinking about it. Then a beam of light came out of the huge light and enveloped me. I was like a baby in its mother's arms and felt secure and loved and at peace. The two figures showed me how I could look into myself. I did so and what I saw was like and endless string of pearls of light. I approached one and touched it .

I saw an entire lifetime here on Earth. I was in what appeared to me 16th century France. I was in military garb and was carrying a sword. I was a drunkard and a braggart and fond of dueling. I died face down in a ditch after being run through the heart. I looked at another.  This time I was a soldier in a Grecian phalanx - again I was run through the heart and died in battle. I looked again - I was a priest in Egypt and knew the secrets of the temple of that time. I looked again at yet another and I was a priest of the temple yet again but this time in what we call Atlantis. I walked a sacred path for initiates only, and knew the advanced technology of that day and of the Pyramids. Again, I looked and this one was different. I was not a human being, but something I can only describe to you as a Pan type being, part goat and part human. I tended flocks of strange creatures on a small planet that was arid and smaller than Earth. It had large boulders and crystalline structure projecting from the ground. I knew my time was short as they were calling me back, so I went way, way back and touched one last sphere of light. I was a creature that lived in darkness or void without shape or form.

They pulled me back and I was before the light like before. They said I had to return to Earth because 'I had things to do'. I told them I didn't want to.

I looked out for the first time in the direction I had come and I saw all of creation. It was like a moment frozen timeless eternity in an instant.

The next thing I knew I was flying down the tunnel of light again. I popped out into the emergency room and slammed into my body, and everything was black and there was pain in every part of my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   This question is oddly posed. I died - is that life threatening? lol

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was a tiny ball of light before the Great Light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     360 degrees.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel of light, with a feeling of great speed.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The tunnel was light. The mist was light but less so. The great light was pure and blinding at first.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Grief, love, peace and breathtaking beauty.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     See above.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Unitarian / Universalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have no religious beliefs. I have only a knowing.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'None ..liberal if it get this form to accept it ..but those are political perspectives ... and meaningless .'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have no religious beliefs. I have only a knowing.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only that which pertained to myself.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Many people feared me and what I said early on, especially my abilities. Some resent my story, because it conflicts with religious dogma.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was very psychic and telekinetic for many years.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was an experience without a parallel.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    All my life. I had things to do.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It took me years to recover my feeling of belonging in this reality, and it is still not the same.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It unlocked my consciousness and removed the veil of this illusion.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Although I have tried to no avail.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I hope this helps someone.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Your religious background at time of experience? The predefined answers denote a political position, not religious belief.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_c_nde_4239.html