{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Robert B NDE 2379","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert B NDE 2379  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						701  Robert B NDE  2379  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

It began on a drizzly Sunday morning on March 31, 1957. While attempting to hoist a number of aluminum sections into the air for a short-wave antenna, it came in contact with the very top 8,200 volt line. My brother released before I did but still he received burns on both his hands. I held on for the entire duration and came to observe my crumpled body still holding onto the pole. I could smell my burning flesh mixed with ozone and steam coming from this body on the ground I was rapidly losing interest in. I held until it burned through the entire thick power line.

I experienced initial pain, feeling of being skinned alive, reversed, extreme calm, peace, and many of the classic NDE elements. What others call a tunnel I have concluded is absence to such a degree the mind gives it texture. I saw the Light approach; the light enveloped me.  An entity that was to prepare me for what I call my Interview with a supreme being later in the Light. This first being appeared to be the Virgin Mary. Only after asking, 'Are you truly the Virgin Mary?' did it instantly manifested its true identity. I was nearly paralyzed with fear until again asking, 'Please, what is happening to me what is going on here?' From that point, all flowed out. Humor functioning far beyond its role here, sights and images coming together with reciprocals to produce physical music. There is no time. Time is a parochial concept for humans existing in truncated physics. To behold the whole of it, you see 'physical music'.

I beheld both my mother screaming over my dead body and my father across town at the same time. I was everywhere dead and nowhere alive. What I want to stress, if you're not an active participant in this event, you will get off lightly, convinced you have seen God, an angel or a departed family member. Nice enough in itself. A joy to take with you forever but very different from the impact of a full Interview and Exchange that must be initiated by you. You pay a heavy price. Not a single day goes by I do not think of my decision to return for my mother. Not a day passes when I am not mourning and yearning to go home again.

There are bits of impossible physics surrounding my story. According to attending doctors, it is impossible my shoes were blown sixty feet away from my body or these circular scars came from 8,200 volts. The most interesting was an eye-witness account that during my electrocution I was surrounded in a blue light that did not terminate with the antenna at the pole but extended beyond, up into the low scudding clouds passing over at the time. Any check into the local newspaper files for March 31, 1957 you will find a story of two brothers putting up an antenna, my electrocution, and a strange very widespread outage of power throughout the city that Sunday morning.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 31, 1957  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       Electrocuted by top high power lines that go to the transformer before reduction.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was electrocuted. All flesh on my feet burned away.  There were six holes to my bones in both legs, blood exiting eyes, nose, and ears.  Blood squeezed out capillaries in my chest. To this day, I still have clear circular exit hole scars on my legs. At the time, the holes were cauterized by heat and you could see to the bone. Later was shown documentation by 'experts' saying these holes could not have been produced by electricity. They also say that shoes cannot be blown sixty feet away from the person.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Duluth airport, middle of winter with a raging northern, temperatures at minus twenty-five and winds howling. On a juniper branch, a nearly dead chrysalis is encased in a lifeless motionless shroud clinging to a limb. That is human existence. That dead lifeless creature is 'Normal every day consciousness and alertness' compared to NDE.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While surely dead on the ground smoking from the pressure of the electricity still surging thorough my body, but elsewhere involved with the Supreme Being, the Interview, the Transfer, and then the terrible choice to stay or return. Seeing my mother wailing and praying I chose to return for her. The highest consciousness was prior to the wrap up of the Exchange and preparing to return.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Question 25 is impossible for an NDE. This is the unnatural, near death, darkened and altered world. This world here. Where I was is the bright, unaltered, non-truncated and free awareness. Physics is complete. Here it is educated guesses and nested errors. So no, no 'seeming to enter' but definitely breathing and being filled with all space, time, and physics that is. Not the tiny slit of local perceptions here.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When you spot the pretty lady going to her car, you are not looking through a pane of office glass but living through twelve dimensions as distinct as the two worlds on each side of the office glass. The awareness of the role of these dimensions will someday show how we presently live in a world of created nested-errors.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No such thing as hearing. Speech an overlaid function and hearing purely a human function. Meaningless.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     As mentioned earlier I have come to believing the mind cannot stand absence to this degree and the mind gives texture to it, therefore a tunnel. I suspect if you asked NDErs was it a tunnel or absence to such a degree you could touch it they would go with the latter. No. No tunnel but the greatest absence the mind will ever know.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Again, the first encounter was with what I was sure was the Virgin Mary of my Catholic upbringing. The most frightful part of the NDE are the moments I took initiative and asked questions. It took a lot of moving beyond the fear to be so bold but I asked, 'Are you really the Mother Mary?' Instantly I saw what I already sensed was happening here. Every molecule in my being suddenly seemed to leap with joy on the new knowledge and understanding.  No, it was not the Virgin Mary. You are approaching home. The need to have it be the Mother Mary fades.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It began as a small dot. I had no reference point on whether it was approaching me or if I was moving toward it. It enveloped me. It is Light, It is alive, and it is brilliant beyond any description. So alive, so totally home and complete love.  No human unprepared could encounter this and live. Unprepared, you die, without question.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     Absolutely, very certainly there were many levels of increased consciousness and awareness. Each an awakening and sharpening. Just as you begin to be filled with the joy of waking and experiencing color, light, new physics, new compliments, symmetry, you are rushed forward to another greater awakening, no time to stop, touch or dwell on the things before you. Geometry applies here.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The thirteen year old boy below me on the ground came to have no more significance than adjacent fence work or stones. At this point something magnificent is clearly approaching and preempting any temporal values.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     As with my initial vision of the Virgin Mary, I have the belief similar visions of angels, or departed family members are buffers against the reality of what the mind is experiencing. Depending on the country or region, these buffers are predictable. Most accept them without question.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        Accurate.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Devout Catholic and altar boy  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Profoundly so. That Sunday I was electrocuted, I was a devout Catholic and altar boy that looked forward to serving Mass. Immediately after my accident and NDE a profound sense of shame that man could be so arrogant with his creation of religion. So sad and silly.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   From the accident onward, spiritual and unable to see value in religious custom or dogma. Completely meaningless relative to the NDE experience. More a moderate conservative.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Profoundly so. That Sunday I was electrocuted, I was a devout Catholic and altar boy that looked forward to serving Mass. Immediately after my accident and NDE a profound sense of shame that man could be so arrogant with his creation of religion. So sad and silly.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Question 27. Again, no 'seem.' There is no time to speed up. All is.  Question 28. At the Transfer within the Interview. There is no library or database to hold it. There is no vocabulary or references for it. It resides just below every conscious moment.    

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No But the fundamental grasp of the nature of things, like understanding religion and science have the same pedigree, yes, but personal relationships, few know of my NDE.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Sights, objects, reciprocals of known physics, for which I have no vocabulary.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The ability to focus on essence on a molecular and sub level. This has occurred at various times and years beyond the electrocution and without any known set of criteria.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Interview and The Exchange. No vocabulary. Not even a starting point do I have for this glorious event.  Physically the greatest pain was when they pulled the remainder of my socks off my feet. While waiting for the ambulance. I was on a neighbor's sofa and a lady ran in saying take his shoes and socks off. My shoes were already blown off. She reached under the blanket and pulled the bottoms of my feet off and when seeing the burnt flesh, she threw up. My tongue would not permit me to shout or talk but I knew I was back.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Twenty-five years passed before I shared my experience. The only exception I asked my mother to describe her location and actions during my electrocution. She described precisely what I saw while down and apparently unconscious on the ground many yards from the house. The very small handful (count on one hand) of people I have shared the most detail with have been very moved.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   At thirteen years of age, it was school, serving Mass as an altar boy, discovering girls, and the very first signs of Rock N' Roll.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Look around you. You live in a world right now that goes beyond cultural differences. We now move with people in realities outside our own. The experience was real but I recognize an electrical explosion in my temporal lobe can produce its own reality. Do I subscribe to NDE being this? Absolutely not.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Not a single bit of information as left my memory. Questions 40 and 41 implies it fades. Not a single item.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Nothing even close.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have come to learn very few NDEs have had the strength and courage to be active during the experience, to ask, and as a result of this strength, to be taken into The Exchange. 99.9% of what would follow here is of no human value or meaning. It is also the essence of most of my joy.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would create some questions that address the memory of outbound versus complete loss of memory of inbound or the return part of the NDE. Also some questions that reveal how the NDE perceives the dual and complimenting roles of religion and science (two sides of one thing). Also invite discussions specific to matters and the role of things sub-atomic.  However, this is a very good questionnaire as is. Thank you!     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_b_nde.html