{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1robert_b_probable_nde_5050.html","mytitle":"Robert B Probable NDE 5050","mylang":"de"}
          	        Robert B Probable NDE 5050  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Robert B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2647 Robert B Probable NDE 5050  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was twelve years old when I had my near death experience. I had a harmless surgery on my lacrimal ducts. Some difficulties arose but that's all I know.

At that time, there were many problems surrounding me and I couldn't find my place within my family. I always thought this was the reason I was allowed to live this experience.

During surgery, I didn't see myself outside of my body. I remember this beautiful landscape: a garden, a little stream, a bridge and this amazing and intense light. I had a conversation with a lady who was near a tree. The conversation was through our thoughts and she kept smiling, her lips were not moving. Her message was clear: I had to go back because I still had things to accomplish. I remember resisting and wanting to stay with her because I finally felt at peace. Then, there was this man on the other side of the bridge. He only glanced at me once and I knew I couldn't stay.

Then I woke up. When I tried to explain what happened, nobody listened to me. Everyone said it had been a dream. But me, with my twelve years of age, I knew I had gone somewhere and it had been real.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Usually no. It was supposed to be a harmless surgery. Apparently there were some complications.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was in the garden.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the garden.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't remember!

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It's hard to explain but it was as if there was nothing behind me except for the light, and the scene I saw in front of me was like in a block - very difficult to explain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I described everything in my text. However, I have no idea who it could have been.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was surrounded by light, even myself.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love; happiness and I did not want to leave.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Je n'avais que 12 ans!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     When I was a teenager, I threw myself into religion.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'J'ai besoin de prier, mais je ne vais ni à l'église ni dans un lieu précis pour le faire, quand j'en ressents le besoin, je me débrouille pour m'isoler et je prie.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     When I was a teenager, I threw myself into religion.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Since then, I've always had the feeling some people needed my help.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Certainly.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can't explain the total wellbeing I felt from the light and nothing compares to it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I'm always analyzing myself and I always have weird feelings at some places. I am presently self-analyzing myself.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Seven years later I've spoken about it to my partner. He reacted well but does he believe me? I don't know. We have never talked about it again.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was only twelve years old!!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robert_b_probable_nde_5050.html