{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rita_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Rita S NDE 22173","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rita S NDE 22173  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rita S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2053 Rita S NDE 22173  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first event that I can remember was when I was three years old. I was in a swimming pool. I couldn’t swim, and I somehow walked to the far end. I went under the water and started drowning. The water burned, but the next thing I knew, I could see a lady sunbathing next to the pool and seeing myself drowning! I wondered why she couldn’t see me. Then I remember that I was on the ground and they were trying to resuscitate me. From that point on, I’ve had a fear of water.

Around nine years old, whenever I went to sleep, I felt as if I was flying. One night, I don’t remember the exact age, though it was no older than twelve, I had a new experience. I was asleep and, as God is my witness, I could hear and feel the wind against my face. Because of those ‘dreams’ I became scared of flying on airplanes and roller coasters. The air and pressure from them remind me of my dreams; I discovered this by accident when I rode on my first and last roller coaster. By the time I was a teen, I had picked up a few fears. Over the years, a few times a week, I’d feel myself flying. Then there would be a flash of bright white light and a loud pop sound that would wake me up. My first waking thought was that I’d almost died.

I never put too much thought into my nightly events until I got into my twenties. I started having anxiety about sleeping. The breaking point for me was when I was about twenty-seven. One night I found myself flying, looking at myself and my ex-husband sleeping in bed and watched television. My poor mind could not figure out what was going on, so I ended up going to the doctor to get medication to help me sleep. Well, the medication quieted my mind.

I have to say also that from my childhood to my present, I feel a being next to me all the time. God and guardian angels talk to me. I thought that part of my life was normal and everyone had those experiences. At the age of thirty, I found out through television that my past and present events were not normal. My events even have a name. I also found out that my dreams that show me the future were something special. Anyways, at present, age thirty-five, I notice that as I am lying awake watching television, I feel my ‘soul’ trying to separate from my body. It only makes it half way before I feel it snap back in. Then I think that my soul is trying leave again.

I don’t know why this new event is happening. I don’t know if it is because I have been taking sleeping aids for the past seven years, but in the past few months, my ‘other’ gifts, which I found out about two months ago, began to get stronger. I don’t know if the soul thing is part of the other gifts. I had to do some research, to understand my gifts. No one ever told me that my experiences from childhood to now were wrong or not normal. In one of my visions, I was flying with this lady. I knew we were in a school, in some place not of the earth. All of a sudden, I heard this noise that I cannot describe but I knew it was Hell. I remember praying to God, saying that I didn’t want to see hell. Thank God, I didn’t. About two months ago, I ran into the lady from my vision, at my life and career coaching class. I didn’t recognize her at first, but as I was talking to her about my events and gifts, she started to pray. I had my eyes closed and while she was praying, it hit me like a slap in the face! The lady in my dream from seven years earlier was her! I started screaming. I got all sweaty and almost passed out. She was the same as in my dream, and I couldn’t imagine why I didn’t recognize her from the beginning and while I was talking to her!

Anyway, a few weeks ago, I had a vision about the end of the world. I feel like I’m trying to suppress something but it’s getting stronger and I’m afraid something is about to happen to me. The more I try to ignore it, the stronger it gets. It feels like my soul is trying to leave my body even when I’m awake. I don’t know if I am leaving my body during the night because of the medications. I don’t understand what is happening to me. I also feel people’s emotions and get vibes from people. Within the last two years, I started seeing auras. At the time, I did not know what I was seeing, until I was telling the person that I can see light around them. The other reason why I take the medication for sleeping is to control my visions and to shake the feeling of someone being around me all the time. Now, at the seven year mark, I am starting to get brief visions when I am awake. I am ok with God talking to me because the messages are simple. My guardian angels, I love them being around me because they always protect me. I will say, I almost died twice and had many near misses within in the last ten years. But the major events are occurring at the seven year mark. Strange.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/1/09

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?         Nothing going that I can think

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am sleeping for ninety percent of them (the out of body events). During other event I am either sleeping or wide awake.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Air rushing past my ears, almost like being in a tunnel and moving real fast into the air.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A few times Heaven. I’ve heard Hell. One time I was on another planet.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met God once. My guardian angel once. The lady I met a few months ago I had a vision of several years earlier.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Always a flash of bright pure, white light when I snap back into my body.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I ‘dreamed’ I was at a car accident where three kids died. I felt the girl dying and asking me to help her. When I awoke from my sleep the next morning, it was all over the news that there was a car accident with three kids. Two boys died at the scene and the girl was in a coma, and early that morning she had died. I started screaming because I was there when it happened.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I always had visions of future events.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     After my other experience three months ago, I had the strange urge to research all of this strange stuff. Out of body experiences, third eyes, signs, kundalini (don’t know if I spelled that right, or how to pronounce it).

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I am trying to figure out if it was a dream or a true event.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I just found out about my gift that I have had since childhood.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst is not knowing what is going on with me. Is this normal or not?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just a few people. The lady in my dream knows the most. My mom knows a lot too, but not everything.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rita_s_nde.html