{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rob_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Rob D NDE 3216","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rob D NDE 3216  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rob D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1216 Rob D NDE 3216  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had massive heart attack on the side of highway. The nurse stopped after five minutes, did CPR until ambulance arrived fifteen to twenty minutes after the event. I was shocked seven or eight times all told roadside, ambulance, Emergency Room, operating room before I stabilized. I have been told that survival under these conditions is impossible. I have had short term memory problems and problems focusing but brain has been re-circuiting itself, much improved. I have no memory from the time I opened the door on my truck until six days later, but remember being on the other side clearly. This experience is described below.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    9-21-05

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  No heartbeat or pulse for twenty minutes, trauma to head from fall onto interstate highway.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Total absence of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Awareness of detail.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    All hearing during conversations was telepathic, as was conversation.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Hard to describe; no tunnel, like a whoosh, then into an area. Not a room but had the feeling of boundaries. An area.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Dead friends told me what had happened. All communication was telepathic. I asked where my dead stepson was. I was told he had gone back. I asked why they had not? I was told that time and space do not exist here. One second, one year, one thousand years, all the same. I was told we all go back many times, until we have learned what is needed to ascend to a higher state of being. We are all a part of a greater being, he experiences what we experience. All things, the grass, air, trees, everything has a living force and is of as much importance to the creator as are we. The planet we live on is alive, and should be as revered as human life. They told me they were unsure if my body could be revived. If it was, I should be willing to speak with those who would listen about what I had been told. I was told that I would experience things that would give me an opportunity to review how I had lived. I was told that all is forgiven, all spirit is eternal, and all can be redeemed.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Confusion, then joy and tranquility.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal   sort of Buddhist?

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Described above.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Tolerance of those with different views.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Have had feelings of need to go or do things out of my usual routine, has proved to be of benefit to me or others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       All had great meaning. I know, not believe, but know, that what was revealed to me was the truth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   Reading about it. Don't believe it affected experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     The knowing is the marvelous part. The awareness that we are all connected, all the same, all equal.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rob_d_nde.html