{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rob_d_nde_9746.html","mytitle":"Rob D NDE 9746","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rob D NDE 9746  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rob D NDE 9746  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5269 Rob D NDE 9746  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    In the summer of 1973, my family along with my mom's twin sister and husband were planning a trip to Walt Disney World in Florida. They were all at the kitchen table finalizing plans for the trip as we were leaving at 1 a.m. the following morning. As a kid, I was hyperactive (Now known as ADHD). I was bothering my dad, so he told me to go outside and play. I saw my friend Michael outside of his house across the street and walked over to him. We were going to go play in the side yard of his house. We had been in his backyard the day before and his mom told us to stay away from the large German Shepherd that was housed back there. The dog was chained up to the ground with about a 10 ft leader, so he could not go far. 

  We were playing in the side yard when I heard Michael say the word 'Doggie'. The next thing I know the dog is running around the corner of the back yard. He had pulled the chain out if the ground and was running towards me barking. I turned around and ran for the fence. I jumped up on the fence and started to climb over it.  The dog jumped up and grabbed me by the shoulder, taking me down. 

  Next thing I remember, I was watching the scene from about 15 feet off the ground. I saw my body in the dogs mouth and he was shaking me from side to side in his mouth like a rag doll. The white undershirt I was wearing was now totally red with blood. After a few moments, my dad was running over and jumping the fence to get me away from the dog.  My friend's mom had come out to pull the dog away. 

  Then I was flying towards the sky at a high rate of speed. The blue sky turned to black as I got higher up.  It looked like I was in outer space. I was flying faster and faster. All I can see are stars, but it was so beautiful. 

  Then I was in a place like a glass amphitheater or small auditorium. I could see the space outside with stars everywhere. I looked ahead and saw two hooded, cloaked figures. One of them was taller than the other.  I cannot see any of their features since I was about 20 feet away from them. I looked both ways.  There was nothing to my left.  On my right was a bunch of people; I could hear them, but not see them.  I heard them frantically whispering, like they were not expecting this to happen. I feel like this is very familiar to me and I feel as though these people are familiar to me, but I cannot place them. The taller of the Beings in front of me motioned for me to come forward. I began moving towards them while still hearing the whispering.  I'm thinking it means, 'Why is he here at this time? He's not supposed to be here now.' The other Being was standing behind the taller Being.  I was then standing in front of the taller of the Being and notice that she had a beautiful voice. She tells me in the most caring and loving way, that I am not supposed to be there yet and must return. She says she will see me again very soon when I'm supposed to be there.  

  I was pulled away from them at extreme speed and back into my 3 year old body. I am now in our 1972 Ford Maverick on the way to the hospital. My dad is driving and my uncle is holding me on his lap. There is blood everywhere. At no time since this event began, did I ever feel any pain. Once we got to the hospital, I left my body one more time and was looking down at the emergency staff working on me. I was in the hospital for almost a month. I did make a full recovery though I still have some scarring on my back, even after plastic surgery.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 07/06/1973  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death  I was attacked by the neighbor's German Shepherd. I received over 200 stitches, and also had a collapsed and punctured lung.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  I could see and hear what was going on when looking down at my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   I could hear the thoughts of the Being in front of me. She never spoke with her mouth, it was telepathic.    
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the amphitheater.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was heightened  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     To my right there seemed to be more than 20 people that I perceived  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Being only 3 years old at the time. I guess I felt love and peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was only 3 years old and basically unaware of what religion was.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I had no expectation at 3 years old of what death or an afterlife even was.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.     
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain.     I was clearly there, so it must exist.  
  
Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life       

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me 30 years to speak about it  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was only 3 years old and had no idea what god, religion, on an afterlife even was.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rob_d_nde_9746.html