{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rita_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Rita T Probable NDE 4586","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rita T Probable NDE 4586  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rita T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2325 Rita T Probable NDE 4586  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having dental surgery for impacted wisdom teeth. The surgery took place in a dental clinic. As they hooked me up to the drip to put me under, I experienced a falling down a long white tube and I could see their faces looking down their end of the tube. I came out into a black partial void. I could see wispy cloud like material. I could see only in front and to the sides of me. I had no body but I could see as though I did. I had no memory of any family or friends or any previous life. I felt myself moving upwards at about a forty-five degree angle. I had no fear of falling or fear of height. As I was moving upward I saw a very large area of condensed light that coated me in such a feeling of love that I thought to myself (even though I had no brain that I could sense) if this is what it is like to die then I can't wait. Then inside my mind, there was a voice that sounded like it could be taken for a male or female that said, 'No, we are not ready for you yet. There will be more pain. You will become a nun.' As soon as the word nun was finished, I was back in my body with extremely worried looking doctors leaning over my body.

They were pumping more oxygen into my nose. They made me stay there to recover the whole day before they would let my roommate take me home. I didn't tell anyone what happened except my roommate and she just thought it was a dream, but it was so real and not dreamlike. It is as real today as it was then. I remember being in a bookstore after Doctor Raymond Moody had written his book 'Life After Life' and grabbed it excitedly because I hadn't known there were other people that had what I had and I felt such relief to know that I wasn't alone.

I was angry that I came back and didn't use my knowledge to benefit anyone. I kept it to myself until I met my husband. I had psychic tendencies before the event but afterwards they were enhanced in several different ways which are too numerous to put in this product. You can contact me if you are interested in these. I am not afraid of death at all. The experience has made me more spiritual but once I felt comfortable telling other people, I got a variety of reactions; some believing some skeptical. I am considered an oddity because of the NDE and the psychic issues make people very nervous. I don't discuss them very much anymore.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  fall of 1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Traveling towards the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Traveling towards the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No knowledge of previous life. No sense of time passing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see without a body. I could see side to side and up and down. No colors, black white and shades of gray. I had depth perception but was existing in a spatial area. The only objects I perceived were the large area of light and smaller pinpoints of light in the distance.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the voice but it was not out loud but inside my consciousness and I understood.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Long white tube that ended in partial void.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Someone spoke inside my consciousness.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Large condensed area, an entity, not shining but lit from within, slow movement, wanting me, loving me, felt like ice on a burn when the pain is gone.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Desire not to return, wonderment, excitement, unconditional love and acceptance, no emotional nor physical pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Only as in I was told these events by the voice.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was kept from moving to the light when the voice spoke.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a more personal relationship with my God and moved away from organized religions because they don't listen to what God wants. I was angry for quite a while because I knew I would never find the love I felt in the light anywhere here on earth.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   secular or not happy with organized religion

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a more personal relationship with my God and moved away from organized religions because they don't listen to what God wants. I was angry for quite a while because I knew I would never find the love I felt in the light anywhere here on earth.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told of more pain in my life. I would become a nun. I have not become a nun yet.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some more negatively, but others have been enhanced because I am empathetic and sympathetic to others' needs, especially as a former teacher.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings of love and total acceptance, no anxiety pain anymore, that the light had substance and wasn't just a warm fuzzy light, it was a being of sorts.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Extreme. The knowing came after the NDE. I have had visions, voices, knowing things, unbelievable dreams that came true, vivid dreams that seemed a reality.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My desire to be with the light. The fear I have lived with since the voice told me that there would be more pain. I told my husband that only my children could cause me that pain and that has come true. I wish that I was perceived by people as very spiritual and that has not happened because I have not used the knowledge I have gained in the way I think I was supposed to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my roommate right after it happened and she thought it was a dream. I didn't tell anyone else until I met my husband in 1969, which was two years after the NDE. I didn't tell anyone else until I went back to work, which was in 1987, twenty years later. Some friends accepted it because they also experienced a psychic event with me. Others were afraid of me and didn't want to hear about it. Some people stayed away from me because they thought I was a friend of Satan.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real because it wasn't like other dreams and the psychic events afterwards only emphasized the experience as real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was amazed at the psychic experiences.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Have a list of psychic events that people could check off.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rita_t_probable_nde.html