{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rita_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Rita M NDE 2429","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rita M NDE 2429  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rita M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						810  Rita M NDE  2429  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

It happened in October 2003, I felt ill but I didn't understand why (maybe because I had never been ill before). I lost consciousness just when I arrived at the Hospital, after few seconds I was talking to the doctors. Then, I lived in a strange way. It wasn't a singular episode but many short episodes. First I was in a boat (or something similar) in a dark and cold ocean and I felt down in the deep water, suddenly someone (like two big hands) took and placed me out of water. Many times.

Every time, I saw myself on a bed, surrounded by many people. I have to say that these visions were not clear; it was as if I saw behind a veil. Other moments I was on a roof, saw what was happening down below, and saw many people, one next to one, on a wire (like pigeons), they didn't talk and watched down. Other moments I thought to a particular place and immediately 'I was there' (I don't know how, nor fly, nor walk). I didn't have a real perception of my body as usually we have when we go out in the street and walk but I saw the places from a high point and I arrived there. All in a fast way. An important and dominant element was water: many times, I traveled between places like rivers. Only once I heard someone talking (perhaps in Latin) while a saw a manuscript. During those days I felt I was dying and my relatives said to me that one night, my body was 'near to dead'. Also, I have other confused memories and I don't know if anesthetic influenced my perception.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         echo-virus cardiaco  Other Arresto cardio-circolatorio a seguito edema polmonare acuto  They saved me with defibrillation.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   During those days I thought I was living my normal life, because apart from the episodes I explained (above) I went to work, went out, I was in family. I realized that something was strange when I saw it was all very fast.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I lived these situations during coma (twelve days).  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     The places were of water (many of them) and the time very speedy.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't see clarity; I should better say I perceived the situation without seeing it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't meet anyone. After I woke up from coma, I felt that someone was in my room near me but I didn't see anyone. I remember I passed that night looking for someone in the room.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     Insoliti. Le strade della mia città erano lastricati di enormi specchi, anche i gradini lo erano ed  un immenso prato  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and anguish. I don't remember anything about the intensive care room (where I lived) but till now if I pass behind the room of this department I feel panic.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Sono Cattolica ma non praticante (credente)  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Idem. Resto credente, ma continuo ad essere non praticante.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I consider this experience a brain scar. At first I had sense of guilt because I was alive, as if someone changed my life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was as if I saw with my body perception, not with my eyes.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     Not at all - I feel people's behavior (their sincerity).  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I thought of a place and immediately I was there.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with a woman, she told me that often, in that experience, I was in a high viewpoint.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Time ago I read about tunnel of light but I haven't see it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would be able to forget this period of my life.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It isn't necessary.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rita_m_nde.html