{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ricky_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ricky C Probable NDE 9488","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ricky C Probable NDE 9488  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ricky C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5101 Ricky C Probable NDE 9488  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was very drunk on alcohol and very high on cannabis after coming home from a work party one night.

  I was about fifteen steps away from being safe and entering the front door of home. 

  It required me to cross a set of traffic lights. 

  Even though I was drunk and high, I am certain that the green light was on go for pedestrians to cross the road that night.  That meant traffic lights were red, meaning that vehicles were stopped. I took the steps to cross the road and was about one step away from being safely across the road when I just blacked out.  

  I was in darkness. It felt like I entered a new dimension or another realm. My future life was shown to me.  I was shown the changes I need to improve myself to make sure I led a safe and healthy life. It was a really intense dream state.  I truly believe I was quantum shifting in that moment. 

  I had an intense vision that I had to quit my job and find a new one.  I needed new friends, to permanently quit drinking and smoking, go to gym and workout, and begin a sustainable diet that will keep me healthy, focused and energized. 

  I have no idea how long I was unconscious. When my eyes opened, my leg was hurting and I was in a lot of pain.  My body was shaking a lot.  There were a few people around me shouting to "call an ambulance." One man asking me if I was ok, looked really worried.  He then told me that he had been the person who drove his car into me.  He told me, I was very lucky the auto was a "short knock" and not a "full-on body hit". That explained the pain I was in.

  I got to my feet and realized that I couldn't stand on my left leg. The entire leg, down to my foot, was extremely swollen and in a lot of pain.  The guy said to me, "What are you doing? We need to either call an ambulance or take you to hospital. You need to take down my car details and explain what has happened to you."   I rejected this suggestion.  All I wanted to do is to get home and go to sleep.  The guy was shocked as to why I was acting this way. I assured him that I was fine. 

  The guy took me in his car to my home, still pleading with me to go to hospital.  I had a strong and incredible knowing that I didn't need to go to the hospital or to be checked by a doctor.  In my mind, I felt that the vision I had was so real, that I was going to be fine.  I knew I was destined to live out those things I saw in my vision.  I had faith that this was all my doing and maybe I deserved this due to my lifestyle. I feel that god approached me and gave me a final chance to change and improve myself.  I was shown the way to improvement in my vision while having my eyes firmly shut and while unconscious from being hit by a car.

  I got indoors and hopped straight to bed and fell asleep. I woke up the next morning in a lot of pain.  I rested, slept, and ate well.  I drank a lot of milk and kept a positive mindset that I would heal in no time. It took about 6 weeks until I was fully capable of walking properly again.   One week after that I joined a gym and started pumping weights, including light weighted squats; which is incredible considering what I had been through 7 weeks before. I started eating healthier.  I found myself a job,  made new friends, and never smoked or drank alcohol again.

  I am very grateful to be alive and am still on a path of self-improvement, personal development and individual growth.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 01/12/2021  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident         Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   You will see when I describe the experience.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   The whole experience, woke me up in a way I cannot even explain in words!  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I opened my eyes and came back to reality and also just before going to sleep when getting home. I was highly conscious and alert and remain it to this day!  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     It was all very slow.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was clearer and I can say with true conviction that it remains this way and even gets clearer and clearer day by day  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Exactly the same context as the vision.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was like I was already living out my future when I was not even awake and blacked out.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Mixture of pain, positivity, motivated, enthusiastic, forgiving to the man who was driving the car, most of all extremely strong and powerful  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I had the vision so yes.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Reading holy books and meditating  

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I am becoming spiritual and reading holy books and scriptures such as; The holy bible, The Bhagavad Gita and The Quran. But I am unsure of a religion to choose; I believe in god but am certainly an agnostic.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I admit I was a party animal and I loved believing that this is the lifestyle that was cool and enjoyable. The whole experience changed my believe.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became a believer.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It was my own voice telling me all the things that I need to change about myself and my life.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I believe that happened to me for a reason way beyond my control and it was not just the universe there must have been a higher force involved which is supremely GOD!  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I had been shown to improve and this has led me to live for something bigger than myself which is hugely purposeful.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Self-love.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I got introduced to so many people who always share information with me about God and the laws of the universe. These are definitely source energy and a higher source in place to help me more and more to my self-improvement. I become stronger physically every day and the results are proven inside the gym, I am in a much better place mentally, spiritually, physically and emotionally. I have become a master of positive thinking and feeling. I meditate and I read holy books and self-help books and self-development books.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I had the vision to make new friends and I did  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was extremely strange. It's made me believe in much higher forces and also that we hold a lot of power deep within us as well.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  VIVIDLY  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My intuition has been found and gets stronger over time.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The day after it happened I told My three best friends. One who is a woman and she was already a very spiritual individual and totally understands it. The other two just focus on the negative fact that I did not go and get checked out in a hospital.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Its more than adequate         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ricky_c_probable_nde.html