{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ricky_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Ricky S NDE 2715","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ricky S NDE 2715  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ricky S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						907  Ricky S NDE  2715  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  On Saturday April 4, 2004, I had a major heart attack. The main part hit while at the hospital with a full staff at my side. One second I was talking and in mid-sentence, I was gone. When the heart attack took me out, they had the bed in the sitting up position. (You know, with the head of the bed raised.) A nurse was about to start an IV when I went out.

The next thing I knew was that I was standing at the head of the bed, looking at the staff and myself. The doctor told a nurse to give him something, they turned around to a cabinet and when they turned back around, they were handing him a really big needle. (I remember thinking to myself, 'I know what that is for and it's going to hurt like hell.') As the doctor reached for it, everything went black.

The next thing I knew, I was standing in what I call a black room. But it was not a room, as we know it - more like an abyss, if you will. I had the feeling that there was something behind me, and there was something in front of me like a black veil, keeping me from seeing what was on the other side of it. I was transfixed on the blackness. It was not frightening at all. I felt the greatest sense of peace I have ever felt in my life. I stood staring at the black abyss. As I said earlier, I felt that there was something behind me, and was tempted to turn around to look. But it was as if I had been told not to so, I didn't. After what seemed to be a couple of minutes, I was returned to my body. When I was returned, it felt like I was coming from the back of my head forward. As I reached where I was supposed to be, I could see, and hear everything clearly.

The doctor, had just told the person standing behind him to 'give him four hundred.' I saw the two paddles in his hands and knew what they were and what he was going to do with them. And once again, I thought to myself, 'This is going to hurt.' Using everything I had, I raised my hand to stop him. The doctor looked at me, then looked at the monitor, then back at me, and back to the monitor again, and said, 'Look at that! I don't believe it.' I was still flat-lined and was stopping him. That is when he told me that they had lost me. They got me stable the best they could and transferred me to another hospital, where they put two stints in my left right ventricle.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'April 4, 2004'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Other 'not sure, all they said was they lost me, and had to do CPR and zapped me 4 times. they were about to zap me the 5th time at 400v.'  Heart attack.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       If I understand this part right.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Not sure what you mean by: Did you have any sense of altered space or time?  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt that there was something there but could not see it.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no ringing in my ears.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not sure, I know something was there but could not see it.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace, relaxed and tranquil feeling.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'I have always believed in God, but do not attended church.'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Other than there is a life after this one has been strengthened.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I have always believed in God, but do not attended church.'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Other than there is a life after this one has been strengthened.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is something or someplace we go after this life, and death should not be feared.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did share within minutes. I told my wife and family, I hate to tell you, but there is no light on the other side. And told them about what I seen and felt. I don't think it has really changed anyone other than letting them know there is something there.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Mainly what you see on TV but in all the cases I heard of there was a tunnel or light, and sometimes spirits there to meet them. But this was not my experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There is something or someplace we go after this life, and death should not be feared.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is something or someplace we go after this life, and death should not be feared.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ricky_s_nde.html