{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1risa_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Risa L Probable NDE 366","mylang":"de"}
          	        Risa L Probable NDE 366  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Risa L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1356 Risa L Probable NDE 366  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went to the dentist's office for some cavities that needed to be filled. As soon as they gave me the shot of Novocain, my cheeks turned bright red. The dentist said that it was just normal. Everything was fine, but when I got home, I was so sleepy that I went right to bed. As usual, my mom came in to check on me at about 8:00 only to discover that I was VERY pale and barely breathing. I wasn't just sleeping at the time, I was having an NDE! This is what it was like. I flew above my bed and saw how gray I was. It made me very scared but then a light appeared in front of me that was BEAUTIFUL, but it was far away. I walked, or 'flew' toward it. When I got to it, a strange lady appeared in front of me. Saying, 'Hello, Laura! I love you, but you have to go back.' I was very puzzled about this, but I went back towards the darkness and into my room. I lay down on my body to re-connect with it. In the morning, I asked my mom why I didn't have a grandma like all the other kids. She told me that she died before I was born, and showed me a picture of her. 'This was the strange lady I met last night!' I said. My mom just sat there thinking 'Huh? Could it be? Nah.' As I grew up I learned the right words to tell my mom what had happened. Since then I've kind of been able to sense what's going to happen in the future and I have a little bit of ESP.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  ?

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had an allergic reaction to medication.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was kind of transparent.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was kind of tired, but still pretty alert. But my body just lay there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a beautiful sound but I can't explain it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a very dark tunnel with a light and my grandma at the end of it.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was my grandma at the end of the tunnel by the light. I didn't know who she was at the time. She said,' Hello, Laura. I love you, but you have to go back.'

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very beautiful, golden light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was sad when I had to leave my grandma and also when I saw my mom crying and praying for me to live. I was happy when I saw my grandma, even though I didn't know who she was at the time.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I learned that my purpose in life was to save peoples' lives as a doctor. I want to save peoples' lives.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My whole life flashed before my eyes, I learned that I was kind of mean to other kids and that I was too wild.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I learned that I will become a doctor in the future, but I'm not that old yet.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became more mellow and kind afterward.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was very young at the time and didn't know just the right words to say.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sense what is going to happen in the future, I have a little bit of ESP.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best, when I met my grandma for the very first time. Worst, when I had to see my mom hoping for me to live and crying.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only told you and my mom. She doesn't really believe it though.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1risa_l_probable_nde.html