{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rickalan_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Rickalan K NDE 9739","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rickalan K NDE 9739  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rickalan K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5261 Rickalan K NDE 9739  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    July 1, 1988, I was  a private in the United States Marine Corps, having just graduated boot camp in April. My friend, came bearing a 4 day pass with a desire to get off the military base.  We figured that we would be able to make it as far as Pittsburgh. I said, 'That's perfect, we can go see my family.' So we pack up the 1972 Plymouth Trail duster and headed out. On the drive up I could not stay awake. I was well rested yet it was like I had  sleeping sickness. I just could not stay awake. Andy was just happy to be on an adventure.  

  We arrived in my home town and went to visit my cousins. Everyone wanted to go off roading in my car, although I was so sleepy.  We stopped for gas before going up the mountains, and I was sound asleep. Ritchie says to me, 'Bitch if you're gonna sleep you're getting in back' then he picks me up and puts me in the back and he rides shotgun. This definitely saved my life.  

  We head up the mountain and the master cylinder disintegrates. The other side is a very steep grade with a rock wall on one side and huge pines on the other. We were doing 30 when we crested but now was  picking up speed.  Andy is making amazing turns while trying to shove the stick in reverse but nothing is slowing us down.  We make it an impossible 2 miles downhill and have one last turn before we can coast to safety.  We didn't make the turn, colling  with an enormous pine tree.  

  I was  on  the  floor bleeding  from  a head  wound  which  would  call  for  192  stitches.  I had  broken  the C-1, the  round 1st  cervical,  as  well  as  my  ring  finger.  One of my friends was  unharmed  except for  the  deep 2'  gash  in his  calf  muscle.  The driver is  pinned  to  his  seat  by  the  steering  wheel,  with his  left  leg  hanging  outside the  drivers  window and shattered  with  at  least  17  breaks.  Ritchie was  out  cold  having  bounced  off  the  dashboard  and part  of the  engine  block. He  had  several  broken  ribs,  one  of  which  has  punctured  his  Aorta. Incredibly, the least injured one of us went to get help.  I  woke up  a  bit  later  and  climbed  out  the  back. I stumbled  up hill  a  bit, but with  my  bleeding  head  wound. I was rather confused. When I saw my car, I heard the driver  mumbling  for  help.  I tried to pull him out, but he screamed  in  pain yelling, ' PRIVATE  GO  FOR  HELP! THAT'S  A DIRECT  ORDER!'  I thought I knew where we were and how to get help quickly.  I  disappear  in  the  darkness.

  In the meantime, my friend reaches  the  trailers and calls 911 for help.  

  Meanwhile  I am going  deeper  and  deeper  into  the  woods.  I see miles and miles  of  dense  forest  and think that my  head wound  is making me hallucinate further.  I  stop  at a tree  and  look  up.  I clearly  see a  Marine  sniper  in  full  cameo as I try to tell him, 'There's  been  an  accident.'  No  response.  'I'm  not  part  of  your  drill.'  Still, no  response.  I  move  to  another  tree.  I  find  another sniper. 'Please  fellow  Marines  are  severely injured,  can  you  just  radio  that there has been  an  accident  near  Main side?'  This  sniper  looks  down  and  shakes  his head  no. I go  to  another  tree  and  another  and  suddenly I am exhausted and I  yell out. 'Won't  somebody  help  me,  I'M  GOING  TO  DIE  OUT  HERE.!'  I  trip, land  on  a  moss covered  log,  and I lose  consciousness.

  The  first  responder  to  the  scene  quickly  assessed  the  situation  and  notifies  dispatch  they  need  the jaws  of  life  and  a  helicopter  to  Pittsburgh. The  State  Troopers  were asking my friend, 'You  said there  were  3  when  you  left,  these  2  and  you.'  My friend corrects them, 'No  there  were  3  in  the  car  when  I  left.'  They ask, 'Well  where  is  he?'  'That's  your  job  trooper  but  there's  a  lost  Marine  out there.' 'By the  way,  any  word  on  Richie?' my friend asks.  They answered, 'He's  made  it  to  Pittsburgh and is in  surgery,  but  he's  got  a  long  way to  go.'  (Later, I found out, he does make it and does not die.)  

  I woke  up  on  the  moss-covered  log.  The  sun  is  directly  overhead. I felt  warm and safe, like I had slept for a week. Then suddenly I remember. 'Oh my God those men! How could I let them down?' I get up to find a path to the road. I take a few steps and notice the sun has moved away from me. I notice  the sun appears to be leading me to a path, then I think I see a car. I move quickly. I stumble down a berm and into the road to see the Troopers car.  I wave him down to tell him, 'There's been an accident.' The Trooper agrees, 'Yes, we've been looking for you.' 

  I get defensive,'Why what did I do?' The Trooper says, 'You were in the accident.' I insist that I wasn't. The Trooper said, 'Look at yourself.' I look down at the blood covering my clothing and think, 'maybe I was in an accident.' The Trooper told me to sit down. I move to the side of the road and grabs at my neck as I sit. The Trooper radios in, 'Oh my God, he's got a broken neck.' I pass out. 

  Moments later, I’m  standing on the berm again watching the scene below.  I'm thinking, 'Man, that man is messed up! Damn! Hey that's my jean jacket. Hey that's my shirt.' I look down and see that I’m not on the berm. I realize I am floating and it hits me, 'Wait that's me.' The ambulance has left and I start to be pulled towards it. Suddenly,I slam into my body screaming in pain as I hear someone yell, 'He's back!' as I passed out again.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 07/03/1988  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was in a very serious car accident. We lost our brakes as we crested the summit. We made it 2 miles down the other side of the summit, when we crashed into a  large tree. The 1972 Plymouth Trail Duster was totaled. The tree lost some bark. I climbed out of the vehicle and walked up hill then turned around  and walked back down. I saw the wreckage and went to help not realizing I had just come from there. I thought I was still on Base in North Carolina but was actually in Western Pa. I had no idea I was injured. My corporal gave me a direct order to go for help, so I did.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes   I was watching myself, unconscious and battered, being attended to and put into an ambulance.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I realized I was floating and it didn't shock me or ore really phase me in the least. Like I was used to it even when I moved in closer , I mean I just knew what I was doing , like I was used to not having feet. I saw how bad I looked but didn't question why I didn't hurt. A part of me felt very at home in that moment. Noticing every detail.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized I was  floating and watching myself being  put into the ambulance.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My eye and ears were tested near perfect in the Marines and yet everything was clearer.  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same as with vision. I could hear the EMTs calling out stats and such but wasn't really listening. I mean I heard them like they were in my head  but I was enthralled with how bad I looked.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't know how far from the road I was. I know I had to follow the sun, somehow, and it was leading, but its like we walked a very short distance to get out to the road. Yet pretty far from the accident site.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I had thought it was the sun, it woke me up and led me to the road just as the trooper was coming by. For years I thought it was noon when I woke with the sun rather close to the earth was directly over me when I woke. Thing is they found me at 5:30 am sawn was just about to break.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I recall feeling sorry for that poor guy, until I saw it was me. It looked a lot like me but all the blood and mess I wasn't sure. Then I noticed my new USMC shirt I was wearing. I had just bought it and my ever present Levi Jean jacket I wore everywhere. When I woke up in the hospital they gave them back to me, as they had been cut off my body.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     There was a clarity to my thoughts that I just don't normally possess.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Born again Christian but not really practicing, not attending church except for holidays  .  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

  What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated.   I believe in the Universe and the Spirit or higher power but not necessarily in God  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     The experience is not at all dissimilar to I how thought it Would be  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify.   I recall almost hearing  attention getting sounds, usually as I was losing focus  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I I knew in that moment that I had been on that side, before I was born or sent to Earth. I don't know how I know that, but I knew it. It felt like, when you run home for something you forgot during the work day, like I had just popped in to grab my umbrella or something. It's weird because I didn't thin that at the time but when I look back it's so clear I knew these things.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It's just what  I felt I just felt connected to it all.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know I just new I was safe and protected, also felt like I knew where I was once I was floating but knew I wasn't supposed to thinks of things, like in case you find yourself briefly on the other side please follow these rules, don't let yourself gain knowledge we shouldn't have as a mortal  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I knew I was out of my body but it felt more natural more correct. I didn't seem to care about staying or going back but just before I entered my body I knew it was gonna hurt, and I was right.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     It wasn't really even a thought but knowing how bad slamming into my body was gonna feel. Like I had drilled for it like a soldier does preparing for a march, etc.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I felt loved it the moment I was awake by the light I felt like I was being hugged by unseen arms the whole time.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     I've lost any fear I had of dying    

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  This memory is burned into my soul   Clear as a bell looking to it  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Mostly when I was floating I knew it was normal  A medium I know says my ESP  qualities are  strong,  I feel like they got stronger as I've aged    
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about five years after the incident, that I learned I had been found predawn then it all flooded back to me. When I've discussed it with others everyone knows I believe it all happened like I said. One friend was rather inquisitive as he had just spent 10 days in a coma and he confirmed my knowledge of how it felt on the other side.  

  Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard friends talk about NDEs also from movies and TV  
  
  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Watching my unconscious self being treated by EMTs just stuck with me.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I've never waivered from my memories  it's not like a memory it's more like I can watch the video of the whole affair  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Iv'e given you all I have.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's perfect as is         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rickalan_k_nde.html