{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_h_nde_9386.html","mytitle":"Rick H NDE 9386","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick H NDE 9386  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rick H NDE 9386  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5031 Rick H NDE 9386  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    As the nurses told me, everything was going smoothly when suddenly I stopped breathing and my heart stopped (flatlined). Everyone in the surgery theatre started moving quickly and the doctor was yelling instructions. For me, I was out of my body and above the room. I looked down and felt I was a large golden cloud moving thru the ceiling. I looked up and saw a beautiful blue sky and felt a very, very old timeless feeling. It was a great sensation. There was also the realization that I have been here before. I did not see anyone, but felt the warmth of love around me. At this point I could see 360 degrees and thought nothing of it. I also had this thought that everything 'down there' was make-believe, and everything up here was the real deal. I then had this feeling that I had to go back. And I did not want to...but then, I suddenly was crammed back into my body (felt like I was being squished). I awoke in recovery with several nurses and doctors staring at me with startled looks on their faces. The only comment my doctor said was, 'you gave us quite a scare'.

  This 2nd surgery (back) was a success. But something strange started happening. As I recovered at my place for 6 weeks I started waking up at the exact same time every morning (3:15 AM). This was fine. But I kept having the strong feelings that some presence was with me. I felt a strong presence over my shoulder when I walked around my apartment, when I walked down the sidewalk or if I was shopping for groceries. This strong feeling was not fearful but it felt like someone I knew (a dear old friend(s). These feeling became constant wherever I was. I finally decided to ask my doctor about this when I went for my 2 or 3 week checkup. During my appointment I asked the doctor about this warm, friendly presence always around me. The doctor kind of rolled his eyes and said don't worry. I pressed for more than a cursory pat on the head. The doctor finally said this 'condition' normally disappears after the 6 week mark (with people like you). I said, so you've had patients mention what I'm experiencing ? He shrugged and said, 'Yes...'

  So for 3 to 4 more weeks, I awoke every morning at 3:15 AM. And all thru the day I would feel this warm presence over my shoulder. I did mark on my calendar when the 6 weeks was up. The feelings were getting stronger. 

  On the final night of my 6 week recovery, I again awoke at 3:15 AM. The only difference was it felt like there was a crowd of people in my front room. I know this sounds crazy but it is 100% true. I walked/limped out of my bedroom into the front room of my one bedroom apartment. I was still tired and said aloud to an empty room, 'is there anybody here ?, if so, give me a sign!' At that precise moment my Bang and Olufsen stereo turned on full volume. And Yes I almost jumped out of my skin. I turned my stereo off and went back to bed (Yes I was rattled). I fell into a deep sleep and in the morning the strong feeling of a presence was gone.

  I've tried to talk to friends and family about this over the years but it is met with a smile or a chuckle. So I wonder aloud what it is ? read a few books on NDE's and surmise it did happen.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 23, 1995  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related While under general anesthesia      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I flatlined during back surgery. Prior to surgery, I felt something was off (my 'spider senses' were going crazy). I mentioned this to the nurses and doctors just before being put under.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything felt clearer. My thoughts were concise out of body. It felt strange and real. Feelings and thoughts became one.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was out of my body. I also felt tuned in afterward during my recovery.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was 360 degrees during my event. But I also could focus in one area if I needed to.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing is normal. Left ear is not 100%  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I felt I was in a beautiful place. It felt more real than here. Makes me ponder still.  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Warmth, love, peacefulness. It felt very real.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I think all religions have good in them. But they seem to all want the inside track on God. I think the answer is, all the above...  

What is your religion now?       No comment   Do not feel very 'religious'.  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was not prepared, other than a strong feeling prior to surgery. It left me seeking answers, No internet at the time (library, word of mouth, book stores, whispers with friends, family and confidantes)  
  
  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I felt since it was make-believe (here), that I am here to observe and hopefully learn. It is like looking behind the curtain.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I felt strongly that where I was (out of body), was very real. And everything else going on (down there) was make-believe.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     What I have mentioned is the highlights of an experience I had. I have always wondered if I was to get myself hypnotized (professionally) and regress back to this experience, would I uncover more detail ?  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt surrounded by intense love. It felt familiar and old (old being a good word).  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Knowing there is 'something else', has sometimes guided me towards searching for answers. It feels personal (when I think about it) but I am also aware everyone will face/experience similar events in their life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Relationships are important but not the end-all to me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  Even though it has been about 27 years since this event, it has always felt strangely clear. Again, I would like to recall/regress to explore if there is other happenings I do not remember.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I pay attention to my senses more. My gut feeling is way more accurate then I care to admit.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The event was strangely beautiful. I hurt in recovery (being squished back into my body). And I do not know why the hospital, staff, etc., did not take it more seriously.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my girlfriend immediately in the  hospital recovery. I also told friends and family. It is real to me, but their reaction(s) made me selective on who I told afterwards.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had cursory knowledge of NDE. I was in a severe vehicle accident in 1976 (age 16). But that is another event for another time.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Having the out of body experience and the strange happenings afterwards, made me take notice (even if I did not/could not believe it myself)  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Reading books about the NDE and OBE confirmed to me something did happen. How it has impacted my life, 27 years later? I wish I could understand more clearly.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Sorry, hard to explain.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It feels good to answer questions about it.  

  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Possibly ask if this is the persons first experience? And expand on it.       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_h_nde_9386.html