{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_h_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Rick H Possible NDE 4228","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick H Possible NDE 4228  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			                              				  					Rick H Possible NDE 4228  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2061 Rick H Possible NDE 4228  					  				  			  	    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My kids had just got off the bus and we were talking and I was telling them that I love them and was talking to them. (I mention this because that is my last memory of that day.) I wake up four days later in the critical care unit, where my wife tells me I seized while I was asleep in our bed.

During the time I was out: I continually had a white veil covering my physical eyes. During which time I could hear arguing in the background, all the while getting a strange feeling as though it were all over me. Yet there was only one voice that I could hear clearly.  I heard the accusations against me.  Those words still to this day ring in my mind. Afterwards, I was standing above the world looking down upon it, just as I saw the creation begin and every man and woman that is upon the earth today, then I saw a fire spread across the land for I then knew many answers. At this point, I began to feel heavy as I realized I saw my body lying lifeless in a bed with a blanket on it. I became so heavy and painful and feelings I would not wish upon my worst enemy.

The veil is removed. I opened my eyes and I see two women, one giving me more drugs to bring me back, asking me if I know where I am. My beautiful wife as I tell her I love her. Once released from the hospital I told my wife of these things as soon as we were in the car and passed out for several more days. She then had to take me to a Veterans Affairs hospital.

For many days after being released from the hospital, I would know strangers from having seen them before. This drove me nuts. Now I can hardly remember anything.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 5-9 . 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'multiple seizures, that could not be brought back into control, when they were, went back into them once again.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My brain was seizing and would not stop, could not breathe, had me breathing on machines because my brain had used up all the oxygen it could produce, my lungs were collapsed. Respirators produced the oxygen my body needed at the time. Doctors asked my wife to find my Will if I had one. They said that if I was lucky enough to make it back, that I would not walk for years or talk again.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While watching the creation.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While watching the creation.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When I woke up four days later, all this time I was out, seemed like seconds to me, as well as painless.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I did not see with my normal eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard just what was meant for me to hear. Some things were blurred, while other things were crystal clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I moved freely.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Slide-show of all that is in the planet today, only I did get to finish it, I was brought back first. I don't understand the meaning of this, was hoping you could help me with the answer.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   More like white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Above this eart watching it being created and destroyed by the true creator

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I did not realize it until I was ready to unite with it. Worse feeling I have ever had. I don't think I wanted to reunite with such a weight.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was being held accountable for a few things and could hear it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   LDS ( However I had not been doing the things I was supposed to)

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   LDS  ( back in Church needles to say )

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More loving, have changed about everything.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How does one explain going to bed with his wife of eighteen years and then waking up four days later in the critical care unit at the hospital? I don't have any memory of how I got there, nor did I feel anything wrong.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        What I hard the voice say about me. Which is nothing good I assure you.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Ten minutes (my wife) I do not know. She to is already a good person.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Will always be in my mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Will not change.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I look for the love in all things. As I should have been doing before. Especially knowing my memory is going and if I have another one I may not come back the next time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_h_possible_nde.html