{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_i_nde.html","mytitle":"Rick I NDE 7963","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick I NDE 7963  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rick I NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4128 Rick I NDE 7963  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After the accident, they took me right away to an emergency room in the back. I was lying on the gurney.  My brother and father were on my left and the doctor was on the right side of me. I knew I was in shock since I have been in shock before.  So I had a clue what was happening. That's probably my most aware state at that time. I begged the doctor for something to kill the pain.  He said he could not give me any pain medicine and had to wait for the REAL doctors. When the real doctors arrived, I was passed out from the intense pain.  I remember thinking, 'This is it. This is my time.' I had been through a lot of other injuries and I truly believed that the good Lord wanted to take me before I turned 30 years old. So, I accepted that this was the time. I did not fight or resist; I gave up.  I wanted to go wherever the Lord felt I should be. At that moment when I accepted the fact that I was DYING, that's when I left this world. 

I was over my body and looking down on my body.  I could see my dad, brother, and the doctor.  By that time my sister-in-law had joined them. I couldn't see anything around me because what I saw  was like having blinders on.  It was black behind me. I felt presences of people that had come to greet me.  Some of them, I felt like I knew but I wasn't sure who they were. But it wasn't what I saw, it was what I felt.  I never really saw anything, just felt it. I then thought, 'I'M HOME!! I finally made it back to where I started!!' What a feeling!  I did not want to come back, period. Then I felt my grandma's presence.  She put her hand out to touch me. I don't know how I know that. I then felt another presence of a person who had so much love. It was just amazing. I felt complete acceptance, Love, and Understanding. That was great; I know it was Jesus. What I felt after that was like nothing I could ever express. It was a overwhelming feeling of LOVE; just LOVE. I think it was the Man himself. I wanted to stay, but my Grandma, as corny as it sounds said, 'Ricky, you have things to do still.' 

I was back in my body at that time and felt NO PAIN! I was never the same. From there, they took me for immediate surgery.  While on the table, my heart stopped beating for about 30 seconds. They brought me back; amazing journey. I spent 10 days in recovery in the hospital and 6 weeks with my jaws wired together while receiving therapy to learn how to chew all over again. But I'm still here.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/15/1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I got into a really bad motorcycle accident. The pain was overwhelming.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew I was in shock, so I wasn't too far out if it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before I left my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     NONE, I saw nothing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just my relatives.  I felt a lot of LOVE from someone.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was above my body. I lost sight of my body for a while, not sure how long. During that time, I was in a dark place surrounded by people who knew me and again, I felt a lot of LOVE.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE and acceptance, not just me accepting that I was Dying, but the fact that whomever it was on the other side Loved me, knew me, and was waiting for ME.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I felt like I was kind of right, we all have a place with the higher power.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was raised Protestant but have attened Presbytrian and Catholic. At that time I had little to expect from death other than I would be with the Lord with his blessings, but I went to church only to make my mom happy. I do beleive in God And Jesus christ My only savior. But I had NO knowledge if out of body expirences from any body. Didn't know that could happen.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I only go to church on special occasions because I know God is in my heart, not in the church. Its a very personal thing for me now.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   My relationship with God is very personal, I know he wants us to spread the word but Iam a very private person, most things I only share with very close family or friends. Ive only told maybe a dozen people about my life-reeling event.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I really didn't have any preconceived notion of what exactly would happen.  Even with my religious upbringing, we tried quite a few religions so my mind was open at that time.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I LOVE MORE DEEPLY

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I just knew in my heart that it was the higher power.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     He was there, that's all I can tell you. I felt him!  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I'm going home one day.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     LOVE

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     It confirmed what I believe was true: Life ever after. Feeling the presence of something more powerful than any emotion I've ever felt on this earth.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     He is there, he is waiting, and he LOVES every one of his people.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     These things are intentional, I felt like I was being told to stay strong, because the fight is worth it.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     LOVE surrounded me.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I try to keep my family very close.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I keep family real close.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was the feelings, the Love I felt, the overwhelming LOVE. The ones that were there waiting for me was wow.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I never forget it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My intuition is spot on; I sense things as well as feel them or see them. I feel like I already know, (know 'what' I'm not completely sure), but I know it's all good.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being with my grandma was very sweet, it didn't last long but I know she was there with me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I can't remember, but I felt as if I couldn't tell anyone because I didn't think anyone else had been through it, until I was in a bookstore about 19 years ago and saw a book about NDE. That's when I knew I wasn't crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I honestly thought I was just imagining it, I later learned I wasn't the only one.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It still makes me tear up just to talk about it, in fact, I've been crying through this entire typing session.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was the most REAL thing I've EVER been through.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You guys brought me to tears so I think you covered it all.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_i_nde.html