{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Rick J NDE 2883","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick J NDE 2883  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rick J NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1532 Rick J NDE 2883  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

A ferry boat was at the wharf to be painted. As a wharf worker, I helped remove the old paint, working at the top of the wharf. At a height of thirty meters, I lost my grip. I felt as if I was pushed, but I saw no one. I can't describe my fright or my impression of this strange incident. Strange also, is the fact that this occurrence didn't dawn on me until afterwards. Two years later, I went to the hospital with paralysis symptoms in my back. It appeared to have been crushed and it was doubtful that I would ever be normal again. However, after three weeks I was able to walk again. Only the scar of the exploratory surgery remained. This served as a testimony to my story.

I've also felt the experience of having judged a thousand people and felt the emotions of these victims. However, when I finally looked upon those I had judged, I was so terribly ashamed of myself; I did not wish to exist any longer. Especially after a beautiful and radiant being saw and touched me, and I saw at once how I had been wrong and why.

Thereafter, other beings asked what I wanted, as if I had yet to be born and that the choices in that life had to be made now. Questions like, do you want to meet your future wife; do you want children; how long would you like to live, etc. Even now, I'm still putting together the particulars of this incident at a time of serious uncertainty. I remind myself of this and then the solution to this experience becomes clearer.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1992  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other val van 30 meter hoge steiger  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I surrendered to the moment.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   The fall only took a few seconds. The subsequent experiences are yet ongoing.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I was lying on the ground after my fall, I saw in the immediate area a multitude of prisms as it were, shining out their clear colors.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I fell in a dark hole.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     An old but attractive person who knew me to my soul and loved me very much, and I talked with ordinary people like myself who were asking about my choices and discussed things that I would experience yet in my life.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     een wereld als het onze alleen tijd leek er niet relevant  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared to death of dying as I fell but made peace with the fact and closed my eyes waiting for the impact.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I understood the universe from its beginning to today and that we have no choice. We develop our DNA.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I have all faith in everything.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know for certain that everything is being directed by a higher intelligence.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know for certain that everything is being directed by a higher intelligence.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We people will become telepathic at some future time. There will no longer be deception or strange behavior such as murder or war. Everyone will see you coming. It is time for this phenomenon to occur and the birth of such people was described to me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't accept everything people tell me, I have my own purpose and ignore status.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The entire incident took maybe two seconds, but it seemed like hours.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have faultless intuition and invisible help.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I now have great faith in nature.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    On that same day, but I was not believed, sometimes I think I might have gone mad.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a wonder that I survived.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm still amazed, but that's wonderful.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   LSD and magic mushrooms.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm actively pursuing greater personal depth. There was no bad part in the experience.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_j_nde.html