{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Rick M NDE 4994","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick M NDE 4994  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rick M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2577 Rick M NDE 4994  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Being Native American, I don't have a view of your heaven. No white light for me, or heavenly beings. What happened to me was very real, even as funny as it may sound!

On February 2, 2009, I was rushed to the hospital after going for three weeks and under-going all kinds of tests. I even had my duodenal ulcer cauterized. I was told to go home again for the fourth time. What the doctors never checked was the artery attached to the duodenal. By the time I got home, it had ruptured.  By the time the emergency medical technicians got me to the hospital, I had flat lined once. When they resuscitated me, I woke up with tubes all over the place. I had one right in my chest! There was blood all over! They knocked me out, and I flat lined again in surgery.

During all this, I went to a place that was in the stars. At first, my friend Kuauhtli reached out and took me by the hand. Kuauhtli is a Peyote Road Man, who does ceremonies all over the world. He is also a twenty year Sun Dancer, who has given his flesh for twenty years.

Kuauhtli led me inside a big yellow school bus. I looked around like where are we going? All Kuauhtli did was smile. There were no words spoken. When we entered the school bus, the interior had transformed to a Peyote Ceremony, and we were in a tepee. There were many Elders sitting around the Sacred Fire. Some looked to be very old. Some I recognized!

I was amazed! I had just walked into a school bus, and now I was in a Peyote Ceremony! I went to look out of the windows, and we were in the cosmos!!! I touched the window and something outside touched back! I could feel the pressure, and we were floating in space, having a Peyote Ceremony!!! I was loving it! I had never felt such peace before in my life. There was never any talk of death, only the Elders singing their songs. Then I was in the intensive care unit, with tubes all over the place. I was told I was given thirteen units of blood. I spent nine days in their intensive care unit.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2-2-2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'Was bleeding internally for several days until artery finally ruptured. By the time they found the bleeder, I had to be resuscitated twice. I was given 13 units of blood.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I looked out the window and saw we were in space. I felt such a rush! It was like there was something on the outside calling me, and I had the choice to go or not! When I touched the window, I felt something touch back. It was as if the shape of my hand was outside pushing back trying to absorb me. I could feel a tingling around my fingers!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw Elders sitting around a beautiful fire. They were singing Peyote songs and praying, for me! One was Floyd, the other was Kuauhtli. I believe Floyd was still alive at the time, I'm not sure. The rest were very old men I didn't know, but for some reason I felt that Sitting Bull was there!

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw the Pleadies!

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I knew well that I was in the hospital as this all unfolded. I had no fear because of the people involved. My Creator is Great. I had to die to fulfill my place on the Mayan Calendar. On it, I am ruled by Death, which we all know is rebirth. My Mayan name is Piltzintecuhtli.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Native American Church, the Peyote Way.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more involved in our Native American Church.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more involved in our Native American Church.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Difficult in the sense I had to know the person I was telling what happened to me or else they just laughed.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     More emotional, highly intuitive, slightly psychic.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My religion was calling me! I am part of a cosmic puzzle that was out of sync. I was born to pray for my people - I was given that power! I had not participated in a Medicine Ceremony in a very long time, and people look up to me for guidance. My Experience showed me that others were praying for me - and saved me - therefore I have to do the same!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have custody of my twelve year old daughter, so it didn't take long for us to have a long talk about the whole experience. My daughter was with me on the way to the hospital when I flat lined the first time. My daughter is more sensitive to our native beliefs, and goes to ceremonies with me. She has seen some awesome things!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I didn't pay too much attention because everyone always spoke of the same thing. The bright light, family, angels, it was all the same for everyone.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew from the feeling that it was real. It was as real one year later as it was the day it happened!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The reality of your experience. The white man always wants a thousand answers! How do we Native Americans explain our experience to one like yourself? Our reality is that it happened! You ask the same question several different ways - we get it already! Don't make it boring!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       What happened to me really happened. It sounds really strange, but that's it. No bright lights, angels, tunnels, or lost family members. But, it was special to me - very special!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_m_nde.html