{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Rick D Probable NDE 6840","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick D Probable NDE 6840  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rick D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3413 Rick D Probable NDE 6840  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I assume this is where you want me to tell the whole story, so, here it goes.

On the night of the occurrence, it was a Sunday somewhere around 9 or 10pm. My girlfriend and I had gone to bed. We were having sex, but nothing unusually strenuous. Pretty much right at the point of me ejaculating, I got this tremendous pain right in the center of my chest. She was on top at that point and I told her she needed to get off me because something was very wrong. My original thoughts were that I had somehow strained a chest muscle or some such thing. After we laid there for one or two minutes, the pain did not go away and I told her I needed to get up for a bit. After we got up, the pain got much worse and spread to my back. It felt like a steel band tightening all around my chest. I sat at the dining room table for a few minutes and smoked a cigarette. The pain did not go away so I asked my girlfriend to try to crack my back thinking that maybe I threw my back out. She tried but said all the muscles in my back were harder than steel and that she thought something more was wrong. 

At that point, I told her I thought we should go to the hospital. We also checked my blood pressure with a home monitor, but it just kept coming up as an error. Once at the hospital, I told them I was having chest pains but they had another person they were checking in, so they told me to have a seat. We brought the home blood pressure monitor with us but it only came up with errors. 

After about twenty minutes of waiting on the nurse or whoever she was to evaluate me, she sat us down and asked us the normal questions. She put a blood pressure cuff on me while asking the questions and it came up error twice. On the third try, it read a ridiculously high number. She got on the intercom system at that point and called a code blue. 

All hell broke loose at that point. Many people showed up suddenly and took me back to a makeshift room in the emergency room. The nurse taking care of me kept asking how my pain level was on a scale of one to ten, ten being the worst. I told her it was a twelve. She gave me a shot of Morphine. A few minutes later, she asked me again the pain level. It hadn't changed. She gave me another Morphine shot. Again, a few minutes later, she asked me for the pain level. It still hadn't changed.  

She then told me they had a drug called a clot buster, but she needed the doctor's approval to give it. She went and asked him and apparently, he ok'd it. She gave it to me. This is where things get fuzzy. 

I remember her giving me the clot buster. We waited a bit and she asked me the pain level again. It hadn't changed at all. So she gave me another Morphine shot.  

It was at that point that I told her, or tried to tell her, that I was going to pass out. I didn't pass out though. I didn't know it at that point, but my heart had stopped. 

What I remember from the point that my heart quit and waking up the next day is this: I had argued with someone in a language that I've never heard before. (This language is important somehow.)  It was a heated exchange, but not a violent one, if that makes sense. I also recall the doctor hollering out to shock me with two hundred joules, then two hundred joules again. Then the third time with three hundred joules.  

Obviously, I survived somehow and am here today. I have no idea why or how but I felt compelled to let you all know that there might be more to this crap than we know.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  04-01-06

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a massive heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was highly aware before they gave me Morphine.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Two different worlds. I can't compare the two.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Two different worlds. I can't compare the two.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt an unknown, nonviolent anger. That makes no sense.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     A person should not rightfully experience a conversation with a being that probably does not exist.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     There have been no changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes If I tell anyone, they see me as a nut job.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How does a person explain something that really should not have happened in the first place?

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   They kept shooting me up with Morphine. Not sure I can 100% recall all events.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       You have no idea what's out there. Good luck.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_d_probable_nde.html