{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_e_nde_22100.html","mytitle":"Rick E NDE 22100","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick E NDE 22100  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rick E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1976 Rick E NDE 22100  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the age of five, my father had to slam on the brakes. I hit my head on the gear shifter of the car. The next thing I knew, I was floating about thirty feet above the car. After that, my mother was shaking me to wake up. I had a big bruise on my forehead for days afterward. I thought it was a dream until I started learning about astral projection. My question was, ‘How many five year olds know what a street and Chevrolet look like from thirty feet up?’

After studying the subject of astral projection, I learned how to wake up my consciousness in a dream. After practicing dreaming this way, I would often wake up vibrating extensively. After weeks of this happening, I gave into the vibrations.  I was floating across the room. It seemed as if I could see in all directions or was at least aware of what was around me. I could feel a little wind pushing me when I moved. I did not have much control in my movements. I did not do this again. I woke up in the vibration stage many times afterward. The last time I did, I prayed that it would go away. I did from that day on and never came back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1970 & 1980 until 1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Car had to slam on brakes, I hit head on gear shifter at the age of 5. From 15 until 19, I would wake up in the vibration stage after practicing lucid dreaming.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was in a car accident at age 5. I learned how to leave my body and practiced it from the age of 15 until the age of 19.  In the first instance.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was consciousness separate from my physical body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Extremely conscious in both instances.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    From age of 15 to 19, I was hearing an extremely loud rumbling noise until I left my body, then peace. It seemed that when I moved, I could hear a small wind as well as feel it help me move.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared during the vibration stage until I let go. Then I was at peace. Not long after, I was excited.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   My sister shut the door to my room while I was out of my body, I snapped back in when she did this.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believed more spiritually.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The vibration stage was the most intense feeling I have ever felt.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes while laying in the bath, I can hear the vibrations far into the background.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_e_nde_22100.html