{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_nde_9732.html","mytitle":"Rick NDE 9732","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rick NDE 9732  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rick NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5255 Rick NDE 9732  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was waiting for the property management to remove the beehive. They were taking too long to remove the hive, so I decided to remove it myself. I thought they were honey bees. Later on, I found out it was a killer beehive. The killer bees attack me and my neighbor. I called the 911, and the firefighters came shortly thereafter. The paramedic asked me if I wanted to go to the hospital because I looked swollen and hurt. I decided that I didn't need to go to the hospital.  Iwent home and decided to take a shower and some pain pills.  Then, I went to bed and was almost asleep. However, my brother's cat was meowing at me in a different tone. That led me stay to awake a bit longer. 

  When I got up, I was experiencing anaphylactic shock, going in and out of consciousness. Then, I was in a dark void while using the restroom. I decided to go to bed and sleep it off. The cat started meowing in that different tone again, catching my brother's attention. He looked at me and then told me that we were going hospital. During the car ride, I felt tired. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it longer to admit me. During admittance, the nurse gave me a few shots for the bee sting attack and bee sting removal. Then, I went to the room waiting for medical clearance and observation. 

  I closed my eyes and was transported into a world where desert and forest met. I was standing on a hill watching either a sunrise or sunset.It also felt like I was home or at peace.   I felt there was no time. In reality, I was only there a short time. 

  Once I woke up I felt like I had slept really well. Yet, after the experience, I was depressed because I wanted to back.  At the same time, I had a different view of life.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 4/2020  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Killer Bee Attack.  Other: Poison from killer bee attack.  Feeling tried, weakness, and in and out of consciousness.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Feeling at home.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.     I felt the place was a part of me or like I was going back home in past or present.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt like there was no negative experience, only pure peace.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     ???  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing experience was like a classic musical experience.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A place that is impossible to find on earth.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     Felt like I was on a different planet.  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I am home.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

  Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events.     Reincarnation and places I lived during my travels.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   Nothing came to me.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     uncertain  

What is your religion now?       No comment     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        uncertain  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   

  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  
  
  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_nde_9732.html