{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1richard_s_nde_2694.html","mytitle":"Richard S NDE 2694","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard S NDE 2694  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						894  Richard S NDE  2694  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  When I was approximately eleven years old, I was playing on a 'Davis Raft' (a Davis Raft is several logs deep) at the wharf. The year was around 1942.

While playing, I leaned over one of the logs and a wave from a passing cargo ship made the log suddenly raise up, throwing me into the ocean. At the time, I had on a heavy winter coat, heavy boots and I could not swim.

I recall sinking towards the bottom of the ocean and looking back up at the light between the logs. When I started to come back up to the surface I was prevented from doing so because of there was no space between the logs.

I again began to sink towards the bottom of the small lagoon where the Davis Raft was tied to several other rafts. On my upward return towards the surface, I could see a small opening between the logs. But when I neared the surface, the logs moved and I could not get around them.

It is my recollection that I again began to sink towards the ocean bottom. It was at this time that I had an out of body experience. First, I felt myself witnessing my empty seat in my classroom at school the next day, while my teacher Mrs. Hall was telling the class that Dick would not be coming to school because he had drowned the day before. Next, I recall the sound of beautiful music and noticing the fish around me and seeing a bright light.

I next found myself popping up to the surface between the logs and furtively grabbing a hold on one of the logs while calling out for help. Two loggers and my father came to rescue me. My father told me that they had quite a time making me let go of the log I was clutching on to. I remember my father taking off my wet clothes and wrapping me in a blanket before taking me home. My mother was angry with my father for letting me play on the raft. I next remember staying in bed in a dark room for several days before I was allowed to get up.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1943  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My alertness was more keen and I experienced the sounds of music.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Near the end of experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More clarity and more tones.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light was seen just before breaking the surface.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     Beautiful Music.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I saw my classroom with my seat empty and my teacher Mrs. Hall explaining to my classmates why I would not be returning to class because I had drowned the day before.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The bright light and the sound of beautiful music has always remained with me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The entire episode was relived in my mind several times over the years and has always been the same.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I strongly believe that everyone has an out of body experience upon or shortly before death.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1richard_s_nde_2694.html