{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1richard_nde.html","mytitle":"Richard NDE 7432\/22974","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard NDE 7432/22974  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3769 Richard NDE 7432/22974  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 7432  					</p>  					I was about to die and was in an Emergency room. My heart rate was 180 beats per minute. They shot me full of drugs to try and chemically convert my heart twice. When that didn't work they gave me more drugs to knock me out, put large pads on my chest and back and then I passed out. They said it took much more than usual to put me out. I have never been a drug user, but I do have some kind of high immunity to Anesthetic drugs. At that point they said they sent electricity several times into me to "convert my heart." At one point my heart stopped beating for one minute eleven seconds I was told. What I experienced. I was on a path that had a hard packed dirt floor. It looked like a cave, however it had varying shaped openings in the left wall. The right side wall was like any cave I had ever seen both in pictures and had been in in my youth. The roof of this cave like place had something that reminded me of a trellis or even mineshaft roof supports.  I was walking this path and as I looked through the holes in the left wall I noticed that the area I could see outside looked like some sort of desert, very much like the ones in the western part of the united states, but it all had an intense pinkish hue that seemed to envelop it. It was devoid of structures or human and animal life, but seem to have plant life of a sorts. Ahead of me were two groups of people that seemed to be dressed all the same, and as far as I could tell they seemed female and I did not recognize any of them. I remember I was trying to walk as fast as I could, but it was like I never gained any real ground for some time even though they appeared to be no more than thirty yards or so beyond where I was. When I finally did arrive to where these two equal in number groups were; they were debating or arguing. The moment I arrived I remember feeling astonished at all that was happening and to find people. I remember being sure that I had in fact died in the emergency room, and to my amazement finding that there was life and consciousness even though I knew I was dead. When I did arrive to stand next to these two groups of people it was as if it took no real time at all to reach the people ahead of me even though it had felt like a giant struggle to do so. I can still here the sound of my voice as I asked them "who are you people?" It is a sound of disbelief that something I believed not possible turns out to be proof, positive true. I could make out very little of what they were saying, but one group seemed to trying to make the other group understand that "I was a traitor" while the other spokesperson for the opposing group asked for an exception. I no sooner got out the question of "who are you people", then suddenly I was awake in the emergency trauma room and still on the trauma table. I was admitted for a few days, sent home and one week later had a stroke, but I'm still alive so I thought I would share this with others to see if any others have seen this place.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  03/19/2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Other: circumstances around the time of experience.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Out of body experience;  Heart Conversion

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Tunnel

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see the doctors/nurses working on me in the Emergency trauma room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire event.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Only at one point did "time" seem to change in perception. I was trying to walk as fast as I could, but it was like I never gained any real ground for some time even though these "people appeared to be no more than thirty yards or so beyond where I started walking from. I remember I was struggling hard to reach these people ahead of me. Once I finally reached this group of people, my arrival happened all at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was on a path that had a hard packed dirt floor. It looked like a cave, however it had varying shaped openings in the left wall. The right side wall was like any cave I had ever seen both in pictures and had been in in my youth. The roof of this cave like place had something that reminded me of a trellis or even mineshaft roof supports.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were two groups of people that seemed to be dressed all the same, and as far as I could tell they seemed female and I did not recognize any of them.

The experience included:       Boundary

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Shock, disbelief anger but yet calm and resigned.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was very shocked that consciousness and or life existed after death.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     If what I experienced is real, then I'm more certain than ever that the world religions are a lie and whatever made or controls our universe is far more ambivalent and aloof to our earthly situation. Who or whatever they are or it is more concerned with it's or their world and lives than ours.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     A group of beings were arguing suggesting that I was some sort of traitor or not one.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     More confused than ever on the subject.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   The event at the time I do not want to remember. This one I can't forget and I feel driven to prove or disprove to my self what happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only that anything at all existed after we leave our bodies.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several weeks. People think everything from it being a dream, to my reaction to the drugs they gave me to my imagination running away with me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of them mentioned from time to time in the media.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      My view of my experience has not changed at all. I'm still not sure what it was or if it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      For me it was the last thing I needed. It solved nothing, and left far more questions than any answer it gave.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I also remember being in both places at different times. I was sort up in the air and could see them working on me in the emergency room.    

  Experience Description 22974  					</p>  					I was about to die and was in an Emergency room. My heart rate was 180 beats per minute. They shot me full of drugs to try and chemically convert my heart twice. When that didn't work they gave me more drugs to knock me out, put large pads on my chest and back and then I passed out. They said it took much more than usual to put me out. I have never been a drug user, but I do have some kind of high immunity to Anesthetic drugs. At that point they said they sent electricity several times into me to "convert my heart." At one point my heart stopped beating for one minute eleven seconds I was told.

  					What I experienced. I was on a path that had a hard packed dirt floor. It looked like a cave, however it had varying shaped openings in the left wall. The right side wall was like any cave I had ever seen both in pictures and had been in in my youth. The roof of this cave like place had something that reminded me of a trellis or even mineshaft roof supports.  I was walking this path and as I looked through the holes in the left wall I noticed that the area I could see outside looked like some sort of desert, very much like the ones in the western part of the united states, but it all had an intense pinkish hue that seemed to envelop it. It was devoid of structures or human and animal life, but seem to have plant life of a sorts.

  					Ahead of me were two groups of people that seemed to be dressed all the same, and as far as I could tell they seemed female and I did not recognize any of them.

I remember I was trying to walk as fast as I could, but it was like I never gained any real ground for some time even though they appeared to be no more than thirty yards or so beyond where I was. When I finally did arrive to where these two equal in number groups were; they were debating or arguing.

  					The moment I arrived I remember feeling astonished at all that was happening and to find people. I remember being sure that I had in fact died in the emergency room, and to my amazement finding that there was life and consciousness even though I knew I was dead.  When I did arrive to stand next to these two groups of people it was as if it took no real time at all to reach the people ahead of me even though it had felt like a giant struggle to do so. I can still here the sound of my voice as I asked them "who are you people?" It is a sound of disbelief that something I believed not possible turns out to be proof, positive true. I could make out very little of what they were saying, but one group seemed to trying to make the other group understand that "I was a traitor" while the other spokesperson for the opposing group asked for an exception. I no sooner got out the question of "who are you people", then suddenly I was awake in the emergency trauma room and still on the trauma table. I was admitted for a few days, sent home and one week later had a stroke, but I'm still alive so I thought I would share this with others to see if any others have seen this place.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  03/19/2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Heart attack/massive stroke.    Clinical death Life threatening event, but not clinical death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was there, but I know my body was on the trauma table, but I seemed to be my self with the absence of illness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Dead

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When the struggle to arrive where the people were it went to I'm never going to get there to I'm there.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In the cave or tunnel or whatever it was.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt well instead of sick. Young instead of old.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Astonishment.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I could go no further. The cave/tunnel/path ended where the people were, but a closed wall or door like place was there at the endpoint, but I could not see it really. I could only sense it, but I knew it was there for a certainty.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I'm still trying to figure it out and or explain it away.  
   
  After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This idea that I'm some kind of "traitor." I'm a good guy who spent my life helping others even at my own personal sacrifice and most times the only reward was to know I did something good or be crapped on by those I helped. So to suggest I'm some kind of traitor really sucks and definitely makes me upset about it. In fact I'm pissed about it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Verity, but mostly dismissed out of hand.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       What I would like to know is has anyone else been to this place.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1richard_nde.html