{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1richard_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Richard P NDE 2236","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard P NDE 2236  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						626  Richard P NDE  2236  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was talking to my friend at the bar. All of a sudden, I felt sweaty, light headed and faint. I got up to go outside to get some fresh air but apparently never made it. According to what I was told, I collapsed on the floor. I remember being in a dark grey void. A voice said to me, 'Richard, why are you here?' I said, 'I want to come home.' The voice replied, 'It's not time yet. You have more work to do. You have a family that loves you and that you need to take care of.' That's when the manager brought me around the first time.

I guess I went out a second time and returned to the grey void. I said, 'I want to stay.' The voice said, 'What is your problem?' I said, 'I don't know.' The voice replied, 'You have to go back. You have to take care of your family.' That's the point I came to the second time. I really didn't want to go back. It was so relaxing, restful and peaceful in the void, but I reluctantly obeyed the voice and returned.

After that, four emergency medical technicians kept monitoring my vitals, which were all over the place and gave me oxygen until the ambulance came to take me to the hospital. They did the standard testing but really found nothing. In the days that followed, including today, I had developed a full blown case of the flu. I don't know if that's what knocked me out but I had always basically scoffed at NDE's up until this point.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 5/21/05  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Felt sweaty and dizzy all of a sudden  Other Got hit with the flu all of a sudden. Had a few drinks. Was talking. Had been dancing.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The second time I went out. I was 'flashed' a lot of information which I have been since processing in ways that I can understand it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time and space didn't seem to exist.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I heard a voice as described above.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt I was home where I belonged. I was incredibly sad when I had to leave.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Not yet. Just my view point.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part where I felt I was home and at peace.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At days. They thought it was awesome.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I never took much stock in the stories.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It gave me a new perspective. I felt my family really didn't need me but now realize that they do.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe it was a directive from a higher source to let me know my importance to my family.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None. It's very comprehensive.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1richard_p_nde.html