{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1richard_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Richard G NDE 2132","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard G NDE 2132  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						569  Richard G NDE  2132  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was in a motorcycle accident and flew from the back of a motorcycle head first into a bumper of a car. I left my body, went through a cloud, and came to a wall with electrical currents going back and forth on the top. I was beginning to wonder where I was at when my grandpa appeared in front of me. I recognized him immediately and he informed me that I could either stay there or go back and be with my family, it was up to me. He told me this several times and said that he was the only one I knew there but I was welcome to stay or go back and be with my family. I chose to go back and be with my family and he said that was my choice and that he loved me. I remember coming back down through the clouds and coming upon an accident where there were a bunch of people surrounding someone all bloodied up on the ground and thinking, 'Bummer.' I awoke in the hospital three weeks later and was informed I had been in a motorcycle accident and that a neighbor had performed CPR and mouth to mouth resuscitation on me the day of the accident. Apparently he checked my pulse and breathing and saw I had neither and performed them on me to bring me back.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 04/23/1982  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Came off motorcycle and banged head.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remember going through clouds and was wondering where I was going, I seemed to be aware all along as this incident took place after getting into the wreck.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I just remember going up through clouds and arriving at a wall that had electrical impulses going back and forth on top of it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I remember seeing my grandpa who had died when I was six years old. He looked younger than I had known him but I recognized him immediately.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A sense of wonder at where I was going and where I had arrived at.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     My life flashed before my eyes in an instant.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The coming back to earth and seeing everyone surrounding a person on the ground and thinking 'Bummer' for the person who they were working on. Also, my grandpa looked a lot younger then I had ever remembered him and I recognized him immediately. I have always wondered if the wall meant that I would be waiting to be judged for my life at a later time.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my family shortly after having awakened in the trauma center.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was eerie remembering it and in such detail. I have always wondered why I was spared and left to come back to life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still remember it precisely as it had happened and have always wondered why I was spared from death.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was buried in a trench in 01/31/2001 it all happened so quickly and as I was being buried a boulder of dirt hit me square between the shoulders on my back my life flashed before my eyes as it had in the motorcycle accident. Just as that happened I thought to myself, 'God Damn this isn't how I want to die.' Thinking of the thought of being conscious as the life was squeezed from me from the burial in the dirt. Just as I thought that something grabbed me and pulled me to the right and up, if I had been where I was as this happened I would have been crushed. I was buried to my shoulders and both people who witnessed this accident swore they saw me buried and after it was all over, I was up and buried to my shoulders. I still wonder after that as well what is my purpose for having been spared twice in my life from accidents.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        Other thing I would just like to know if others have had any surprising events in their life after being brought back. Like I had when I was buried in the trench and I remember something grabbing me and pulling me to the right and up. It was as if something protected me as this happened to me.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1richard_g_nde.html