{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V7 1891-2","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v7_1891-2.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V7 1891-2","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLUME VII.
(CONTAINING PARTS XVIII.—XX.)
1891—92.
London :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER and CO., Limited,
CHARING CROSS ROAD.
1892. '/J--
London :
National Press Agency, Limited,
13, Whitefriars Street, K.C.
(RECAP)
CONTENTS.
PAOE
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. By Baron von SCHReNCK-
Notzing, M.D., Munich 3
Some Recent Experiments in Automatic Writing. By Thomas Bark-
worth 23
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. Part I. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick . 30
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. By LEON MARILLIeR . . . 100
Supplement.
I. Professor William James's "The Principles of Psychology." Bv
F. W. H. Myers Ill
II. Short Notices of Books 134
III. Circular Letter No. 4.—Hypnotism : Its Conditions and Safeguards . 13"
IV. Circular Letter No. 3. (2nd Edition.) Appeal for Collahoration. . 141
V. Circular Letter No. 5. Importance of Publication of Names . . 144
On Alleged Movements of Objects, without Contact, Occurring not in the
Presence of a Paid Medium. Part I. By F. W. H. Myers . . .140
Experiments in Clairvoyance. By Dr. Alfred Backman . . .199
A Case of Double Consciousness. By RICHARD HODGSON .... 221
Supplement.
I. Third Ad Interim Report on the Census of Hallucinations . . . 259
II. On Spirit Photographs ; A Reply to Mr. A. R. Wallace. By Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick 26S
III. Notices of Books. By H. E. Wingfield and W. Leaf . . .290
The Subliminal Consciousness. By F. W. H. MYeRS 29S
Supplement to the Paper on the Evidence for Clairvoyance. By MRS.
Henry Sidgwick 350
Note on a Visit to Kalmar. By F. W. H. Myers 370
Some Recent Thought-Transference Experiments. By PROFeSSOR Oliver
J. Lodge, F.R.S 374
On Alleged Movements of Objects, without Contact, Occurring not in the
Presence of a Paid Medium. Part II. By F. W. H. Myers . . . 383
Supplement.
Reviews—
I. " Riddles of the Sphinx." Reviewed by C. C. Massey . .395
II. " The Occult Sciences " 408
Supplementary Catalogue of the " Edmund Gnrney " Library . .411
List of Members and Associates 413
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch .... 433
98086
i
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX to VOL. VII.
A.
FAGK
Aksakoff, Alexander N., Controversy between, and E. von Hartmann 292
Alexander, Prof., Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 173
Alleged Movement of Objects without Contact occurring not in the
Presence of a Paid Medium 146-198, 383-394
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research—List of Members 433
" Annates des Sciences Psychiques," Review of 136
Anonymously contributed Cases 98, 283
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne, Leon Marillier on 100
Armstrong, George Allman, Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 158
Automatic Writing, Barkworth, Thomas, Some Recent Experiments in ... 23
„ ,, Instances of 23, 25-28, 180, 187, 238, 298
„ ,, „ by Hypnotised Subjects 292
Automatism, Phenomena of
See Physical Phenomena and Subliminal Consciousness
B.
B., Madame, Case of (Leonie) 131
Babinski, M., Theory of Hypnotic Phenomena 300, 310
Backman, Dr. Alfred, Experiments in Clairvoyance ... 199,370
Balle, Valdemar, Case of Hypnotic Clairvoyance 364, 367
Barkworth, Thomas, Some Recent Experiments in Automatic Writing ... 23
Barrett, Prof., Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 154
Beattie, Mr., Evidence as to " Spirit-Photography " 269, 271, 275, 280, 284-86
Bernheim, Prof., Hypnotic Experiments of 351
iv Index to Vol. VII.
PAGI
Biggs, Dr. M. H. , Cases recorded by 339
Blind, Cases of Hyperaesthesia in the 126, 127, 128
Bourne, Ansel, a Case of Double Consciousness, R. Hodgson on ... 221-257
Boyd, W., F.R.S.E., Case contributed by 49
Bristol, B., Case contributed by 359, 364
Bristow, John, Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 384
Buguet, M., Alleged "Spirit Photographs" of 270, 276, 277, 281, 282, 287
C, Mr., Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 189
Carreau, Marguerite, Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne to ... 104, 107
Charcot, Prof., Hypnotic Experiments of 337
Circulars issued by the Society—
Collaboration, Appeal for 141
Hypnotism ; its Conditions and Safeguards 137
Publication of Names, Importance of 144
Clairvoyance—
„ Backman, Dr. Alfred, Experiments in
,, Sidgwick, Mrs., On the Evidence for
Coues, Prof. Elliott, Case contributed by
Collaboration, Appeal for, Circular (No. 3) issued by the Society
Conner, Mrs. E. A, Case contributed by
Consciousness, A Case of Double
,, Evolution of
,, James, Prof., Theory of
,, Subliminal, F. W. H. Myers on
Coomes, Dr. M. F., Case recorded by
Council of the Society
Cowles, Dr. E., Note on the Case of Ansel Bourne
Criswick, Theophilus, Case contributed by
Crystal Vision, Experiments in ...
199-220, 370
30, 356
... 35
... 141
35, 37
221-257
399 407
Ill
298-355
345
See Officers and Council
251
94
29, 216, 217, 318, 319
D.
D., Mr., Case contributed by 356
D., Mr., Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 160
Dariex, Dr. X. C, Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 193,194
Davis Family, Evidence as to Physical Phenomena in ... 173, 185, 189
Delbceuf, Prof., Hypnotic Experiments of 323, 331, 346
Dialectical Society, "Report on Phenomena of Spiritualism ' 153
Dobbie, A. W., Experiments in Hypnotic Clairvoyance ... 62, 63, 64, 68, 71
Dordogne, Apparitions of the Virgin in, Leon Marillier on 100
Double Consciousness, Ansel Bourne, a Case of, R. Hodgson on . . 221-257
Epilepsy and 237-240, 256
Memory, Conditions of, in 231-237,239,240,241-
250, 255-257
Duplex Personality, Phenomena of 135, 221
., ,, ... See also Subliminal Consciousness
Index to Vol. VIJ. v
E.
PAGE
Elliotson, Dr., Cases recorded by 237, 238
Ericsson, C. E., Case recorded by 202
F.
F., Dr., Notes on Experiments with the Clairvoyante " Jane" ..
Fahnestock, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of
Forel, Dr. , Case recorded by
Eraser, Mrs., Notes on Experiments with the Clairvoyante "Jane
57-62, 82
351, 352
... 135
... 88
G.
Gale, Harlow S., Case collected by 359
Gasparin, Comte Agenor dc, Experiments in Physical Phenomena .. 154
" Geselli-chaft fiir Psycliologische Forschung," Formation of, and Review
of Proceedings .. ... ... ... 134
Gibert, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 130
Glover, J. J. T., Case contributed by 95
Golinski, Dr. C, Case contributed by 39
Gonrvat, Marie, Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordognc to 104, 107
Graham, H. W. Gore, Evidence as to " Spiritistic " Phenomena ... ... 156
Green, Rev. C, Note of Experiments with the Clairvoyante "Jane" ... 91
Gurney, Edmund, Notes on Cases of Hypnotic Stigmatisation ... 339, 342
H.
Hallucinations, Epidemic of, in Dordogne .. 100-110
,, New Census of, Ad Interim Reports ... ... 259,264
Theory of the Genesis of 313-321
Hansen, Carl, Experiments in Clairvoyance under Hypnotism ... 364, 307
Hartmann, Eduard von, " Die Geisterhypothese des Spiritismus und
seine Phantome," Review of 292
Higginson, Col. T. W., Case collected by ... 41
Hinsdale, Guy, M.D., Notes on the Case of Ansel Bourne ... 253
Hodgson, Richard, A Case of Double Consciousness (Ansel Bourne) 221-257
Holstein, Madame A. de, Case contributed by 39
Hudson, (;., Alleged " Spirit Photographs " of 269 273, 275
Humphreys, H. T., Case contributed by 96
Hypnotism, Action a Distance 130, 131, 291, 292
„ Clairvoyance under ... 49-81, 82-99, 199-220, 364-369, 370-372
,, Conditions and Safeguards, Circular (No. 4) 137
Curative Effects of 290-292, 322, 323, 336, 337, 341, 343, 347, 348
„ Epilepsy and 237-240, 256
,, Hypnotic Anaesthesia and Analgesia 72, 73, 95, 322, 323, 330
337, 338, 351
Index to Vol. VII.
PAGE
Hypnotism, Hypnotic Memory 233-236, 240, 241-250, 255, 256
,, „ Suggestion, Human Personality in the light of
54-56, 135, 233-236, 241-250
„ „ „ Post-Hypnotic 243-246, 313
„ „ „ Self- 351, 352
,, ,, ,, Stigmatisation and Kindred Pheno
mena produced by 337-347
,, Hysterical or Morbid Nature of Phenomenaof—consideration
of the question 298-327
„ Infants, Experiments with .. 291
,, Narcotics, Experimental Use of, in 134
Predictions Under 203,217-219
,, Subliminal Consciousness and the Phenomena of 298
,, Transference of Sensation under 72, 73, 81, 88, 95
L
Intemperance cured by Hypnotism 347, 348
J.
Jack, F. L., Note on the Case of Ansel Bourne 255
James, Prof., Hypnotic Experiments with Ansel Bourne 232-236, 241-250, 254
,, " Principles of Psychology," by, Review of Ill
"Jane," Record of Experiments with the Clairvoyantc 53-81, 82
Janet, Prof., Experiments of 299, 323, 324, 332
Jong, Dr. dc, Moral Cures by Hypnotism 348
Josty, Mr., Alleged " Spirit Photographs " of 284-287
K.
Kalmar, Experiments in Clairvoyance at 199, 370
,, Notes on a Visit to, by F. W. H. Myers 370
Kralft-Ebing, Dr. K. von, Pulse and Temperature affected and Stigmata,
cVc., produced by Suggestion under Hypnotism 337, 343, 344
L.
LAGRAVE, Dr. COSTe De, Hypnotic Experiments of 351
Leaf, Walter, Litt D., Review of " Die Geisterhypothese des Spiritismus
nnd seine Phantome," by E. von Hartmann 292
Lee, H. M. , Case contributed by 38
Levillain, Dr., Case recorded by 337
Levy, W Hanks, A Case of Hyperesthesia of the Blind ... 127
Library, " Edmund Gurney," Supplementary Catalogue, 1891 411
Liebeault, Dr. A. A., Case recorded by 335
,, ,, " Therapeutique Suggestive," by, Review of ... 290
Index to Vol. VII. vii
PAIE
Ljunggren, Miss Hilda, Experiments in Clairvoyance with 213, 217
Lodge, Prof. Oliver J., F.R.S., Some Recent Experiments in Thought-
Transference 374
Lnndberg, Miss Ebba, Experiments in Claiivoyance with 212
Lyro, The Fraulein, Thought-Transference Experiments with 374
M.
" M.A. (Oxon,") Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 154
„ „ ,, "Spirit-Photography" 269,277-280
Maguire, E., Hypnotic Experiments with 96
MarilHer, Leon, On the Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne 100
,, Census of Hallucinations, Ad Interim Report (for France) 264
Marks, C. R. and F. A., Case contributed by 359-361, 363
Massey, C. C, " Riddles of the Sphinx," by " A Troglodyte," Review of 395
Meetings of the Society, Ordinary 1, 145, 297
Multiplex Personality ... See Double Consciousness, Duplex Personality,
Hypnotism, Secondary and Subliminal Consciousness
Mumler, Alleged " Spirit Photographs "of ... 269, 270, 274, 275
Myers, F. W. H., Alleged Movements of Objects without Contact
occurring not in the Presence of a Paid Medium 146, 383
,, Case of the Clairvoyante " Jane " 53
,, Notes on Mr. J. Bristow's Case 389
,, ,, on a Visit to Kalmar 370
,, Review of " The Principles of Psychology,'' by Prof.
VV. James Ill
,, Subliminal Consciousness, The 298
Myers, Mis. T., Notes on Experiments with the Clairvoyante "Jane " 53, 54, 91
N.
Names, Importance of the Publication of, Circular (No. 5) 144
Newbold, VV. Romaine, Notes on the Case of Ansel Bourne 250
Noyes, W. , M. D. , Notes on the Case of Ansel Bourne 254
0.
Officers and Council of the Society 413
P.
Paquet, Mrs., Case contributed by 32, 33
Parkes, Mr., Alleged " Spirit Photographs "of 270, 273. 274
Personality. See Double Consciousness, Duplex Personality, Secondary
and Subliminal Consciousness
viii Index to Vol. VII.
PAGK
Physical Phenomena, Alleged Movement of Objects without Contact anil
not with Paid Mediums, F. W. H. Myers on 146, 383
,, Analysis of Phenomena 146-154
"Materialisation" 182,190,191
,, Physical Movements and Automatism (Class A) 153,
154-156, 158, 160, 173, 189, 193, 194, 383
„ ,, Bell-ringing 160-173
"Slate-writing" 180-182,186,188
„ Wood-throwing 383-393
,, Terminology, Suggested adoption of ... 112,146,150
Pitres, Prof. , Experiments with Magnets ... ... ... 322
Power, Miss H., Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 155, 156
Prince, Dr. Morton, Case recorded by 335
Proust, Prof., Hypnotic Experiments of ... 240,255
R,
Radberg, Alm.v, Experiments in Clairvoyance with ... 204-212, 218, 370
Reviews Ill, 134, 135, 136, 290, 292, 395, 408
Kichet, Prof. C. , Experiments in Clairvoyance 370-372
" Kiddles of the Sphinx,'' by a " Troglodyte," Review of ... ... ... 395
Rosen, Baron von, Case recorded by ... 205
Rybalkin, Dr. J., Case recorded by 338
Russell, Mrs., Nntes on Experiments with the Clairvoyante " Jane " ... 92
S.
S., Mdlle. Ilma, Case of 343, 344
Samuelsson, Anna, Experiments in Clairvoyance with ... 200-204, 219
Schrenck-Notzing, Baron von, Experimental Studies in Thought-Trans
ference 3
,, ,, Hypnotic Experiments 134, 135
Secondary Consciousness, Phenomena of ... 25-28, 114-133, 221. 298-327
,, ,, ... ... ... See also Subliminal Consciousness
Sidgwick, Mis., On the Evidence for Clairvoyance 30, 356
,, ,, Notes on Mr. Bristow's Case 391
„ ,, Spirit Photographs : A Reply to Mr. A. R. Wallace ... 268
,, Prof., Third Ad Interim Report of the Census of Hallucinations 259
Society for Psychical Research —
General Meetings, Ordinary 1, 145, 297
Members, Associates, and Honorary Members 413
,, ,, ,, American Branch... 433
Officers and Council 413
Spirit Photographs, A Reply to Mr. A. R. Wallace, by Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick 268
Starkey, Rev. E. , Case contributed by 46
Stella, Mrs., Case contributed by.. 9g
Index to Vol. VII. IX
PAGE
Stigniatisation and Kindred Phenomena—
Hypnotic ... 337-344, 346
Spontaneous ... ... ... 338, 345
Storie, Mrs., Case contributed by , 34
Subliminal Consciousness, F. W. H. Myers on 298
,, ,, Analysis of 305-313
„ ,, Individuality and Personality, Definition of ... 305
,, „ Subliminal Messages, General Character
istics of 298
Suggestion, Mechanism of ... 327
Suhr, Messrs. A. and V., Case contributed by ... 364
Sullivan, The Right Rev. E., Bishop of Algoa, Case contributed by 38, 39
T.
Taylor, Liecjt.-Col. G. L. lb M., Case contributed by ... 156
Thompson, H. S., Case recorded by 239, 240
Thought-Transference—
,, Experimental Evidence—
• Numbers 18, 19
Objects 16-19, 378, 379
Playing Cards 17, 377-381
Pictures and Diagrams 6-16, 21, 374, 377-379
Words and Names ... 16
,, Lodge, Prof. O. J., Recent Experiments in 374
,, Schrenck Notzing, Baron von, Experimental Studies in ... 3-23
,, Syntonic or Sympathetic 374 376
Thurstan, Dr. W. I'., Note on the Case of Ansel Bourne 227, 229
Thury, Prof., Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 154
Trowbridge, G. R., M. D., Case recorded by 240, 250
V.
Vaughan, Rev. E. T., Evidence as to Physical Phenomena 154
Voisin, Dr. A., Hypnotic Experiments of ,. 347, 348
W.
Wadsworth, Dr. O. F., Notes on the Case of Ansel Bourne 255
Wagner, Prof., Experiment bearing on the Question of " Spirit-Photo
graphy " 286
Waite, E., " The Occult Sciences " by, Review of 408
Wallace, A. R. , Spirit Photographs, Mrs. Sidgwick's Reply to 268
Wedgwood, M'S. Alfred, Case contributed by 47
Wesermann, H. M., Experiment by 47
Wibiiot, Mrs., Case contributed by 41
X Index to Vol. VII.
PAGI
Williams, Dr., Experiments in " Spirit-Photography " 282
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Case contributed by 72
Wingfield, H. E., Review of " Therapeutique Suggestive," by Dr. A. A.
Liebeault 290
Wood, A. B., Case collected by 32
X.
X., Emile, Case of 255
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 42nd General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, December 5th, 1890, at 8 30 p.m.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick read part of a paper on " The Evidence for
Clairvoyance," printed below, and Mr. F. W. H. Myers read an account
of a case of apparent mental activity during coma, recorded by Dr.
A. S. Wiltse about himself.
The 43rd General/Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,
January 30th, 1891, at 4 p.m.
A continuation of Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on " The Evidence for
Clairvoyance " was read for her by Mr. F. Podmore, and a translation
of a paper by M. Leon Marillier, on " Some Recent Apparitions of
the Virgin in Dordogne," was read by Mr. H. Babington Smith.
Both of these are printed below.
The 44th General Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,
March 6th, at 8.30 p.m.
A translation of a paper by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing, M.D.,
of Munich, on "Some Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference,"'
was read by Mr. F. Podmore. This is printed below.
A paper by Professor William James and Mr. R. Hodgson, on a
case .of double personality of the ambulatory type (that of the Rev.
Ansel Bourne), which it is proposed to publish in a future number of
the Proceedings, was read by Mr. W. Leaf.
The President, Professor Sidgwick, was in the chair on each
occasion.
B
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. 3
I.
EXPERIMENTAL STUDIES IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By Baron v. Schrenck-Notzing, M.D., Munich.
(Translation revised by the Author. )
" The subtilty of Nature is many times greater than the subtilty of the senses
and of the understanding."—Bacon, Novum Organum, Bk. 1, 10.
I.—Introduction.
If it be true that one brain can impress another without the
intervention of the known organs of sense, there is no doubt that a
discovery of great and far-reaching importance has been made. And
if, after the discovery of the chain of physical causation, at present
unknown to us, but certainly existing, the centrifugal effects of vivid
ideas in one person produce in another, in exceptional cases, sense
perceptions extending beyond the limits of our ordinary experience,
our knowledge of the functions of the brain would thereby be much
enlarged. It is possible also, however unlikely it may seem, that there
is in the numerous and careful observations now being made some
indication of a latent source of error, which has hitherto escaped us
and all other investigators, and which would afford some quite simple
explanation of the occurrences in question. But if so, such a discovery
would be an important step forward, and would put an end to many
,errors. In the time of Galvani, it would have been impossible to
foretell that the present immense development of the application of
electricity would result from his observations on the twitching of a
frog's leg. And as little is it possible to foresee the future of our
branch of investigation, now in its earliest infancy; for the beginnings
of a new science are often so trivial that they are easily underrated, or
even rejected d. "priori when they do not fit in with old systems. But
even though the subject before us may seem at the first glance to have
no connection with recognised branches of science, that is no reason for
turning away from it. On the contrary, only serious critical examina
tion of experiments made with suitable persons, and careful observation
of the phenomena which occasionally present themselves spontaneously,
will enable us to distinguish truth from error, and to settle the question
,as to the reality of the alleged facts; and, above all, to banish the
thick fog of charlatanry and superstition with which human credulity
and religious enthusiasm have enveloped the phenomena of thought-
transference, telepathy, clairvoyance, &c.
We certainly do not underrate the great difficulties which beset
scientific investigation in this domain. Everywhere self-deception.
4 Baron von Schrenck-N'otzing.
needs guarding against more carefully than in other branches of
science. Everywhere, besides the ordinary sources of human error,
there are some quite special to the subject. In order to advance the
knowledge of psychical processes, in this direction, and to win a new
and fruitful field for scientific work, we must, firstly, aim at the careful
observation and record of each individual case, with the utmost possible
regard to known causal connections ; and, secondly, endeavour to assign
to it its place among a large number of similar phenomena, arranged in
groups, where each individual case, whether it be an experiment or an
observation of a spontaneous event, must be classified with equal
exactness.
The question of psychical action at a distance, apart from the
experience and conviction of individuals, appears to be still an open
one for science, in Germany at least. But if thought-transference,
in the sense of the greater part of the observers, does not exist, there
is certainly apparent thought-transference; and even so the duty
of scientific investigation is clear. For in any case a careful study of the
phenomena might greatly enlarge and enrich our knowledge of the
action of the human mind.
Now, in spite of careful consideration of all accompanying circum
stances and possible sources of error, a number of cases of apparent-
suggestion mentale remain unexplained, as the excellent investigations
of the Society for Psychical Research show. For the range of the
sources of error has quite definite limits. If, for example, every kind
of internal expression, of thought is accompanied, as Jackson and
Strieker have both shown, by the execution of a definite movement ;
if, further, we assume that the unintentional expressive movement, the
involuntary unconscious suggestion, may sometimes, in spite of the
most careful precautions, betray a part of the mental wish; still the
assumed operation of this factor in the reproduction of drawings when
agent and percipient are in the same room, is not even an approximately
adequate explanation of the occasionally striking agreement between
reproduction and original ; and least of all is it so in those cases in
which it is precisely the deviation from the original which proves the
thought-transference. My experience, like that of Richet and others,
shows that sometimes the half successful experiments—those, for
example, in which only the fundamental principle or element, or only
the form of the original has been grasped—are more instructive and
convincing than the completely successful ones. Take, as an instance,
the case where the original drawing is a star. The reproduction in
one, two, and three attempts gives the fundamental element of the star
—the form of a W. Can we suppose that the percipient, in such a case
of successful transference, read the W in the expression of the agent,
who was thinking not of a W, but of a star ? Or should we suppose
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference, 5
that the percipient really perceived the star, but with refined and
deliberate artfulness did not reproduce the true figure, but only its
main lines slightly altered 1 One supposition is, in this case, as improb
able as the other, and the second falls to the ground altogether, when
the same result is observed with several percipients unknown to each
other. In general the psychical echo—the transformation which the
thought undergoes when reconstructed in the brain of a percipient—
is of great interest, and it may be quite decisive as to the evidential
value of an experiment.
A further and often neglected source of error, upon which the
American Society for Psychical Research has justly insisted, is a
"corresponding association of ideas in agent and percipient. But this
also has definite limits. It is of no importance in experiments in
which the thing to be done is decided by lot. And it is also out of the
question in cases in which it can be shown that the cause which
determined the choice of the object to be thought of was not common
,to the brains of both agent and percipient, or at least that the per
cipient was not influenced by it. If, for example, I vividly imagine to
myself some object in my room, my attention may have been excited
by the object itself, and the percipient, being in the same room, may
guess what it is at the moment when I look at it, from some change in
my expression connected with its arresting my attention. But this
,objection falls to the ground if the process in the mind of the agent
takes place as follows: I wish to choose some object in the room to be
guessed; I keep my eyes fixed on a particular spot, and wander round the
loom in imagination. My mental eye fixes itself on a basket on the
wall behind me, in which there is an Indian handkerchief. The whole
wall is covered with all sorts of things, a large bookcase stands against
it, and many objects in daily use, pictures, and so on, are there. Now,
I ask, how is it possible that the percipient should guess from my
expression that I am thinking of that Indian handkerchief 1 Even
supposing that I made some movement when I fixed on that idea, how
could the movement be rightly interpreted ? A movement involun
tarily made, in spite of efforts to the contrary, could at most have
betrayed the neighbourhood of the object, the whole wall, that
is, where there were hundreds of things besides the one thought
of. Whence comes it, then, that from this supposed movement,
unconscious, but perceived and rightly interpreted by the per
cipient, she names exactly the right object out of hundreds ? It
is impossible that she should divine the nature of the object to be
guessed from a gesture only.
I must, in the present state of knowledge, regard a successful
experiment of this kind as tending to prove thought-transference, till
some opponent has given experimental proof that the nature of a
6 ,' Baron von Schrenck-Notzivg,
definite object thought of can be recognised from expression or gesture
alone. The same holds good of an experiment in which I think of
some person, and the percipient does not name that person, but another
person who lives in the same house, it being the image of the house
that first came before my mind's eye. Is it possible, I ask, that the
expression which accompanies the thought of a particular person or
a particular house has some special character, not belonging to other
gestures, by which the percipient recognises the right idea? Such a
special and recognisable character of gesture or expression is not known
to exist, and is not an admissible explanation, so long as its possibility
is not proved. Till then such coincidences are to be explained as
thought-transference; and I therefore feel bound to relate these experi
ments, especially as they form an interesting parallel with experiments
at a distance and under other conditions. And in experiments of
which various explanations are possible it is just the observation and
record of the little accessory circumstances which make the experiment
worth anything, and leave the reader free to form a judgment and to
decide whether it is possible to relegate this or that experiment to the
realm of pseudo-thought-transference.
The problem of mental suggestion is for us an open question ; we
have no prejudice in favour of any hypothesis, and are accessible to any
information that may throw light on the subject. In what follows we
conscientiously communicate our observations, both positive and
negative, according to the records made in all cases during the experi
ments. If one or another of the cases could perhaps be explained
according to principles already known, there would still remain enough,
we think, to constitute unexceptionable evidence in favour of the reality
of true psychical transference.
II.—Experiments in Thought-Transference with Drawings.
1st Experiment.—January 15th, 1890. Between 3 and 4 p.m.
Place, the author's room (see plan at the end of the paper). Agent,
the author. Percipient, Graf S., aged 20. While Graf S. is sitting in
the armchair (marked 4 on the ground-plan of my study), I go into the
next room, and, the door being closed, make the drawing marked 1 (see
plates at the end of the paper) at the little table e. I then return
to the study, where Graf S. is waiting. The drawing is held in
such a manner that it was absolutely impossible for the percipient to
see anything of it. Graf S., completely awake, and sitting in the arm
chair, has his back to the writing-table. I sit down at the writing-
table, on the chair marked 3, and think as vividly as possible of the
drawing I have made, but holding it so that Graf S. could have seen
nothing of it, however he might have turned himself. Without giving
him any indication of what my drawing is, I ask him to draw. He
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. ?
makes the reproduction marked 1 . My behaviour could not have given
him the least hint. Time of experiment, two minutes.
The original and reproduction have only the right angle in common.
I put this experiment down as a failure.
2nd Experiment.—January 15th, 1890. Between 3 and 4 p.m.
Agent, the author. Percipient, Graf S. Process and arrangement of
experiment exactly as in Experiment 1. I prepare the original in the
next room. I can answer for it that the percipient did not see my
drawing. No sort of hint was given. The percipient sat in the arm
chair, the agent at the writing-table. Nothing was said. The experi
ment lasted about two minutes. Graf S. drew reproduction 2. In
neither of these experiments did I look at the hand of the percipient.
I consider the experiment successful. The percipient drew a
crescent-shaped segment of a circle, something like a moon. If the
point which I discussed in the introduction should be raised, whether
some unperceived cause may not have made both of Us think of a
circle, I would observe that this can hardly apply to the more thickly
drawn section of my circle, and only this was perceived. The point of
the crescent running upwards into a line shows that the crescent
does not quite reproduce the whole figure. With regard to conditions I
consider this experiment unassailable. (Cf. original and reproduction 2. )
3rd Experiment.—January 21st, 1890. Between 4 and 5 p.m.
Place, my study. Agent, the author. Percipient, Graf S. Arrange
ments in every particular the same as in Experiments 1 and 2.
Just as I am leaving the room to make the drawing, I think of a
square, but draw a triangle. Baron v. Welden is present at this
experiment; the arrangements have been carefully explained to him,
and he endeavours not to influence the proceedings. During the
experiment he sits on a lounge behind me, and looks at the drawing
with me. The percipient could see nothing, even if he turned, on
account of the way the paper is held. No hints are given. Graf S.
draws reproduction 3. Duration of the experiment, about two minutes.
Although, on account of the presence of three persons, and the con
sequently increased difficulty of control, I feel more hesitation about
this experiment, yet I do not at all believe that it was possible for the
percipient to observe anything. We did not look at his paper while he
was drawing, and were quite silent. The experiment may be considered
a success. (Cf. original and reproduction 3.)
ith Experiment.—January 21st. Circumstances and conditions the
same as in Experiment 3. Graf S. draws a cup instead of the number 1.
The experiment is a failure, in spite of a certain likeness—a stem and
something on it—in both. But the kind of failure is interesting. (Cf.
original and reproduction 4.)
8 Sawn von Schrenck-Notzing.
5th Experiment.—January 21st. , The same circumstances and con
ditions as in the last, except that Baron v. Welden acts as agent. He
draws original 5 in the next room. He sits on the lounge and looks
at the drawing, while the percipient draws, sitting in the armchair. I
am a passive witness, know nothing of the original, and refrain from
any participation. The conditions again appear to me strict. I could
discover no hidden error, in spite of careful observation. Graf S.
drew reproduction 5, a comet. Although the experiment is a failure,
still the analogy of two small circles, with something larger attached
to them in both cases (in one case the larger circle, in the other the
tail), is striking. Duration of experiment, about three minutes. (Cf.
original and reproduction 5.)
6th Experiment.—Time, place, and conditions as in Experiment 3.
Agent, the author. I draw a 3 with thick lines in the next room.
Graf S. says that he does not know what he has to draw. Even a
hint from me, " I am thinking of a number," does not put him on the
track. This experiment fails completely.
7th Experiment.—January 20th, 1890. 4.30 p.m. Place, my study.
Percipient, a patient of mine, Fraulein E., 24 years old, suffering from
hysterical troubles. Conditions of experiment :—I draw the original
on the table e in the next room, with closed doors, while the percipient,
quite awake, is sitting in the armchair (4) in the study. I go back
to my study and sit down at the writing-table, without showing the
drawing or giving any hint, and always holding the paper so that
nothing can be seen. I do not look at the drawing Fraulein E. is
making till she has finished. When she gives me the drawing she
spontaneously makes the following remark, which I took down
word for word. " I see a cross which persists, and is sometimes
surrounded by a square, sometimes by a circle, sometimes by a
border or frame. The frames wavered, but the cross remained." I
only now show her the original. The experiment is to be regarded
as successful, and the conditions seem to me strict ; unless I uncon
sciously gave indications in spite of efforts to the contrary, which I do
not believe. (Cf. original and reproduction 6.) Duration, hardly one
minute after my return from the next room.
8th Experiment.—January 20th, 1890. All the circumstances and
conditions the same as in the previous experiment. In Experiments 8,
9, and 10 the reproduction was begun directly I re-entered the room,
all in the interval between 4.40 and 5.15 p.m. In this case, Fraulein E.
began to draw as I opened the door, and I had hardly seated myself
before she had finished the drawing, and believing it to be incorrect
began the two others by it. It was absolutely impossible for her to
have seen anything of the original ; for she must have grasped the idea
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. 9
of a square as I was going to open the door. I cannot say whether
some hidden cause may not have called up in both our minds by
association so common a figure as a square. But in this case there
assuredly was apparent thought-transference.
Fraulein E. explained about her drawing—"After the square,
wavering, changing figures came into my mind ; first intersecting
squares, then right angles, then circles," &c. (Cf. original and
reproduction 7.)
9th Experiment.—January 20th, 1890. All circumstances as
in the last experiment, with the difference that I stood behind the
armchair while Fraulein E. tried to reproduce the figure I had drawn
in the next room. When she had drawn reproduction 8a, I said
it was wrong, and she had better try again. No other word was
spoken. She now drew reproduction 86 under my eyes, and it is
possible that I expressed my assent by unconscious gestures, when the
first open circle was drawn. But certainly this circumstance could not
have indicated to her that she should put another open circle, in which
the reproduction shows a remarkable deviation from the original, upon
the first. If this experiment is not quite so strict as some of the
previous ones, the reproduction is too characteristic to be explained
by any of the sources of error mentioned above. (Cf. original and
reproduction 8.)
10th Experiment.—Conditions exactly the same as in the 9th. I
stand behind the percipient's armchair, concentrate my thoughts on the
drawing I have made in the next room, and look from time to time at
the percipient's hand while she is drawing. To reproduction 9a I say
" Wrong." To reproduction 96 I say nothing. I leave the percipient
to follow entirely the course of her own thoughts, and she adds
reproductions 9c and 9<f. She says, "I keep seeing something like a W;
now and then something I cannot recognise comes in." This experi
ment, like the previous one, lasted but a few minutes. I only showed
the percipient the original—which represents a star composed of three
W's—after, without further remark from me, the five reproductions
had been finished. The reproduction, which is only partial, is, it is true,
not a success, but it is a kind of failure strongly indicative of the mode
of transference. I do not venture to decide whether some hidden
errors, some unconscious suggestion on my part, had any share in it.
I have here conscientiously related only what I believe that I observed.
Wth Experiment.—August 31st, 1890. 9 p.m. Percipient, Fraulein
A., a patient of rather hysterical temperament, fully awake. She has
never before taken part in such experiments. Agent, the author.
Place, my study. Conditions exactly the same as in the earlier experi
ments. In this and in all the succeeding experiments I made the
10 Baron von Schrenclc-Notzing.
drawings on the table in the next room, with closed doors, and care
fully concealed them from the percipient on my re-entrance. Percipient
sits on chair 5, with her back to the door, and draws, while I sit in
the armchair opposite her, holding the paper on a book, the book held
perpendicularly to the floor, with its back towards the percipient and
the paper towards me. It is absolutely impossible for her to see the-
drawing. Nothing is said. Fraulein A. draws a square, puts down
the pencil, and leaves off. Then only I look at her paper and see that
the figure is correct. I ask her to go on, saying that the figure is.
right so far, but not finished. She now completes the figure by adding,
diagonal lines and draws a large dot, which is almost like a small
square, in the middle. When she has put down the pencil I show her
the original; on the whole it agrees with the reproduction: both figures
are squares, both enclose something—the original another concentric
square, the reproduction a large central dot with several clearly
rectangular corners. I consider the experiment a success on the whole,
and from the experimental procedure I do not think that any
unobserved error is the cause of the remarkable coincidence. Duration,
two minutes. (Cf. original and reproduction 10.)
12th Experiment.—August 31st, 1890. 9 p.m. Persons taking part,
conditions, <tc, same as in the preceding experiment. Complete
failure. (Cf. original and reproduction 11.)
13th Experiment.—October 1st, 1890. 5.50 p.m. Place, my study.
Percipient, Frau Eug., a Pole, aged 27 ; it was her first experiment of
the kind. I sit upon chair 4, the percipient on chair 5. As I
wanted, in the first instance, to discover whether the patient was
a suitable subject for such experiments, I drew a 3 on a sheet of paper
under the table, which was covered with a large cloth. The lamp was
alight. Frau Eug. could not possibly know what I had drawn. Nothing
was said. She made a B without any pause for reflection, and was
astonished when she saw its likeness to the original. Although the
conditions were not so strict as in some of the preceding - experiments,
the astonishing agreement of original and reproduction can hardly be
explained by chance or mistake. This was the only experiment in
which the drawing was made in the same room. It hardly aimed at
being a real experiment, but was made rather for my own information.
It lasted from 5.50 to 5.53 p.m. (Cf. original and reproduction 12.)
lilh Experiment.—October 1st, 1890. 5.55 p.m. Place, the
author's study. Percipient, Frau Eug, sitting at the table on chair 5.
Agent, the writer. The original (No. 13) was prepared in the next
room, with closed doors, and was carefully concealed from the per
cipient. I sit upon chair 4, and hold the paper covered by a book as
in the 11th experiment. Before we begin, I say to the percipient, " It
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. 11
is not a number." That and no more was said. The percipient now
draws reproduction 13a. I look at her hand, and when she has done
say, " Right, but it is not finished ; draw larger." The percipient
draws reproduction 136. I say nothing, but picture the original very
clearly and vividly to myself. The percipient now draws reproduction
13c, which completely corresponds to the original. Time, five minutes.
It is remarkable that the right idea came suddenly to IYau Eug., after
figure 136 had completely deviated from the original, in spite of my
words at reproduction 13a. I think the course of this experiment very
worthy of notice, because it shows that in spite of confirmatory words
a wrong drawing may be made. As every detail of this experiment is
related with exactness, I think I need not allude to explanations by
chance or by hidden defects. (Cf. original and reproduction 13.)
15</t Experiment.—October 1st, 1890. 6.5 p.m. Same circum
stances and conditions as in 14th experiment. The percipient says, "I
am restless ; I cannot do any more." "While speaking she makes
reproductions a, b, c, d, and then asks, "Is it not a number, a zigzag,
a letter 1 " It is possible that as this went on I made some negative
gesture. Suddenly she says, " It is a square." I say, " Right." She
now draws unexpectedly under my eyes lie, which completely repro
duces the original. She might have guessed the square. But it is
certain that there was absolutely nothing to suggest that the figure
was to be completed by 4 small squares at the corners. I am thoroughly
convinced that she could not have divined from my looks what com
pletion was desired, even if she really had perceived that the square
was not all that was wanted. The percipient exhibited the same
peculiarity as in the last experiment—the right thought came suddenly
after wrong guesses, and also the figure really reproduced the original
exactly.
It is true that these experiments are not irreproachable, because
something was said, and if they stood alone I should never think
them convincing. But one learns most from these half successes, for
they form a transition to the complete ones. (Cf. original and
reproduction 14.)
16th Experiment.—October 14th, 1890. Place, my study. Time,
5 p.m. Persons, conditions, and circumstances the same as in the 1 4th
experiment. Original drawing 15 made in next room, with the door
shut. The percipient guesses, "It is like a tower, square at the
bottom—a ball." She draws reproductions 15 a, b, c, d. "It is like
a pedestal." She then draws reproduction 15e,—which has a distant
resemblance to the original. The expressions, "like a tower," "a ball
underneath," and "like a pedestal," should be noticed. These descrip
tions recall the ship's mast of the original, which sticks up like a
12 Baron von Schrenclc-Notzing.
tower or a pedestal. The ship itself might be thought of as half a
ball. In this way the words show some connection with the original.
Whether my expression indicated dissent at reproductions 15a-e, or of
iissent at 15c?, I cannot say. This unconscious suggestion was, no
doubt, possible. I think this, in any case, an interesting failure. I
looked at the percipient's paper while she drew. Duration of the
,experiment, about five minutes. (Cf. original and reproduction 15.)
1lth Experiment.—October 15th, 1890. From 10.12 to 10.14 p.m.
Percipient, Fraulein A. Agent, the author. Place, my study. Con
ditions :—Agent and percipient are in different rooms, separated by a
wall and a closed door. The percipient is sitting on chair 5, in the
study, quite awake, as are all the persons in all these experiments.
Paper and pencil are on the table before her. She has her back
to the door into the next room. I am at the table e in this
next room, with my back to the door of the study, and draw
on the table, standing, original 16, the staff of ./Esculapius with
the serpent. Door of communication closed. I call " Ready 1 " The
percipient says, " Yes." We have been drawing at the same time in
different rooms. On returning to the study I compare the drawings
and see with astonishment that Fraulein A. has drawn a serpent.
Even the open mouth and the thickened end of the tail in the reproduc
tion agree with the original. The experiment has succeeded in its
essential part, and as regards strictness of conditions I think it quite
unassailable. Unconscious suggestion is absolutely excluded, when
agent and percipient are in different rooms. Any corresponding
-association of ideas seems to me also impossible, for the idea of the
staff of j9£sculapius first occurred to me in the other room. In the
study there is no object which could have led up to the idea,—no
indication which could have pointed out the way.
This experiment is one of my greatest successes. Any hidden
,error is inconceivable ; the only alternatives are chance, or true thought-
transference. (Cf. original and reproduction 16.)
18th Experiment.—October 15th, 1890. From 10.18 to 10.20 p.m.
Same persons, conditions, and circumstances as in 1 7. The experiment
is a complete failure. The idea of a serpent-form seemed to persist in
the percipient's mind. Hence the serpentine line. (Cf. original 17
and reproduction 17.) Only the arrow-like point of the reproduction
at all recalls the original.
19th Experiment.—October 15th, 1890. 10.21 to 10.23 p.m.
Persons, conditions, and circumstances as in 17. I draw the original
18 on table e in the next room, with the door closed. The drawing
was done in the following way. I began with the triangle, and then
,drew the perpendicular on the base. The idea that thereupon occurred
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. 13
to me, that the figure was too simple, induced me to add a circle and
to prolong the perpendicular to the circumference ; finally I added the
horizontal diameter. The percipient was drawing at the same time at
table 5, sitting on chair 5, with her back to the closed door of
communication. Question from the next room, " Are you ready 1 "
Answer, "Stop," as I am about to open the door. Then, "Now." I
open the door and enter the room. The two drawings agree except
that the circle and the horizontal diameter are wanting. Even the
perpendicular of the triangle, which has become obtuse angled, is
prolonged beyond the base, just as in the original. This prolongation
and addition of the perpendicular cannot be explained by any tendency
of ideas to recur (diagram-habit). Only the fact that a triangle was
drawn might, taken alone, be explained in some such way. I consider
this experiment also convincing as regards the strictness of its arrange
ment, and, on the whole, successful. (Cf. original and reproduction
18.) The experiments 17 and 19 are the best of the whole series here
given.
20th Experiment.—October loth, 1890. 10.25 to 10.30 p.m.
Same conditions, persons, &c, as in Experiment 17. I draw a five of
diamonds in the next room ; reproductions 19a, b being drawn at the
same time, with the door closed. I look at them without showing the
original to the percipient, say " Wrong," and sit down on chair, con
centrating my thoughts on the original, which I hold as I did in Experi
ment 11. Without any hint from me, reproduction 19c is drawn. The
percipient says, "I can do no more," and makes an oval, I9d, which shows
me that she has again been drawn from the right track. This experi
ment is a failure, but the mode of failure is noteworthy. The original
was a card with 5 pips [in the German stars], of which the centre one
attracts the eye most. Reproductions 19a and 196 show that the idea
of a star had come into the mind of the percipient, and been shaped by
her imagination. Reproduction 1 9c shows two quadrangles with centres,
domino-like, which exhibit an unmistakable analogy with the original.
For the original is also a four-cornered figure with a centre ; only the
centre is four-cornered also, and there is, moreover, another diamond in
each corner. All through there is some connection of ideas,—a, a star,
b, a star, c, 2 quadrangles with centres domino-like. Original a five of
diamonds. The experiment, unimportant by itself, forms, with Experi
ments 17 and 19, a remarkable group. Note particularly that Experi
ments 17 to 20 were done one after another in half an hour, with the
same percipient and under almost the same conditions throughout. It
is hardly possible to express arithmetically the chances against the
fortuitous correspondence of so many details in only 4 experiments,
under such strict conditions. It is only by comparing with this result
^he infinite number of mere guesses required to produce the same
14 Baron von Schvenck-Notzing.
amount of coincidence that one can estimate the importance of these
experiments. (Cf. original and reproduction 19.)
21»t Experiment.—October 17th, 1890. 11.10 a.m. Place, my
study. Agent, the writer. Percipient, Graf S., as in Experiments
1 and 2. Conditions for reproduction 20a the same as in Experi
ment 17. On re-entering the room I say "Wrong," without show
ing the original. Graf S. now makes reproductions b, e, sitting at
the table, on the chair marked 5, I standing behind him looking at
what he draws. A certain resemblance in the circular lines to the
handle and the upper rim of the mug cannot fail to be recognised.
When I show the original to the percipient, he says (too late), " I
thought of crockery." I consider this experiment a failure. (Cf
original and reproduction 20.) Duration, five minutes.
2'2nd Experiment.—October 17th. 11.15 a.m. Everything arranged
as in Experiment 17. I draw in the next room an anchor. The per
cipient draws as reproduction a, two concentric circles; after my return
to the study he draws as reproduction b, a leaf, as reproduction c, three
straight lines meeting in a point, and as reproduction d, a very obtuse
angled triangle, the obtuse angle pointing upwards, with a straight line
perpendicular to the base extending downwards from its middle point,
so that the figure has a distant resemblance to an umbrella, and a still
more remote one to an anchor. We spoke during this experiment.
I regard it as in its course not convincing, and in its result a complete
failure. For this reason I considered it unnecessary to produce the
drawings ; all the more that they present nothing characteristic.
23rd Experiment.—October 23rd, 1890. 10.9 to 10.12. Agent, the
writer. Percipient, Fraulein A. (the same as in 17). Conditions
in all details the same as in Experiment 17. Separate rooms. I say,
"It is an object which is to be drawn," and in the next room I draw a
quart-pot (Literkrug). Question, "Ready?" Answer, "Yes." I return
to the study. The first reproduction represents a head, and on my
saying " Wrong," a second reproduction representing a fish is drawn in
my presence, I standing behind chair 5. It was absolutely impossible
for the percipient to see the original. I now ask, "What am I thinking
of?" Answer, "An apple." "Wrong." I repeat the question. Answer,
"A quart-pot." "Right." The percipient says, "I thought of that first,
and did not believe it was right." Now, there certainly were quart-
pots standing on the table of the study, but I am sure that in asking
the question I did not look at them. The experiment must, neverthe
less, be regarded as a failure. The conditions during the last part were
.defective, and guesswork or unconscious suggestion may have produced
the result. I relate it, however, because it so often happens that the per
cipients say when, it is too late, " I thought of that first," and then.
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. 15
allow themselves to be led away by other images or sense impres
sions ;—-unless these supplementary explanations are the result of
retro-active memory-illusions.
21th Experiment.—October 23rd, 1890. 10.19 to 10.22. Persons
and conditions as in Experiment 17. Question (from the next room,
door closed), "Are you ready?" Answer, "I do not think of anything."
I re-enter the study, and make the task easier for the percipient by
saying " Letters," upon which she writes " A, H," I standing behind
the chair. She then says, "They are entwined," and makes reproduction
216, then 21c, which approaches the original still more. This experi
ment is a half success, but with a probability of guessing right by
chance alone of 1 in 24 ; and subject to the need of making due
allowance for the natural association of ideas, since the percipient
would be likely to think first of the initial of her own name. As a
failure, this experiment is interesting and instructive ; regarded as a
success it would not prove thought-transference. (Cf. original 21 and
reproductions 21, a, 6, c.)
25th Experiment.—November 1st, 1890. 4.30 to 4.35 p.m. Agent,
the writer. Percipient, Fraulein K., an easily hypnotisable patient
of hysterical temperament. She sits in armchair 4, and the agent
stands behind her. Original, a cup, which I drew in the next room.
The percipient makes several beginnings, and tries to draw an eye. This
image of an eye surged up in her mind at first and persisted. Three
attempts at reproductions showing nothing characteristic, the attempt
is given up. Complete failure.
26th Experiment.—November 1st, 1890. 4.48 to 4.51 p.m. Percipient,
Praulein K., completely awake as in the previous experiment. Agent,
the author, draws original 22 on table e in the next room, with closed
door. The percipient, sitting on chair 4 in the study, draws at the
same time reproduction 22a. On my return I look at her drawing,
and say " Wrong," and go on thinking intently of the original. She
then draws reproduction 226, I standing behind her chair and looking at
her paper. I say, " Wrong, try again." The percipient now draws a
circle. I say, " Right, but not finished." She now draws reproduction
22c, I keeping perfectly still, and giving her no further hint whatever.
This experiment is to a certain extent successful and even demonstra
tive, though the plan laid down was not quite strictly adhered to.
The percipient might have guessed triangle, cross, and circle; but
why does she attach to the circle a square placed so very unsym-
metrically, but so that when I look at that part only, ignoring the
diameter and the line which cuts the circle, the relation of the lower
right-hand corner to the circle corresponds completely to the original ?
If mere association of ideas produced reproduction 22c, much more
16 Baron von Schrenck-Notzing.
natural combinations of a circle and a square might have occurred to
her. Thus, in spite of the less strict conditions, and the causes of error
which we have taken into account, something remains which points to
thought-transference when considered with the results of earlier experi
ments. Taken alone, this experiment would be unimportant, but it is
significant in connection with the previous ones, (Cf. original and
reproduction 22.)
III.—Experiments in Guessing Objects, Persons, &c, Thought of.
It remains to add to these 26 experiments with drawings other
experiments in thought-transference of a different kind which were
carried out with the same percipients. My object in these experiments
was to study for myself the nature of communication of thoughts with
out observable mediation of the senses ; in doing which I kept possible
sources of error carefully in mind in each particular case. The follow
ing method recommends itself as both convenient and convincing. Let
the agent think of some object or person, and ask the subject, " What
am I thinking about]" at the same time circumscribing the percipient's
task by words if desired. I made the following experiments in this
manner.
1st Experiment.—August 31st, 1890. 10.5 to 10.7 p.m. Agent, the
writer. Percipient, Fraulein A. We are sitting at the table and
talking. I say suddenly, " I am thinking of a person we both know ;
who is it ? "
1st answer : "HerrK." (Wrong.)
2nd answer : " Herr A." (Right.)
2nd Experiment.—August 31st, 1890. 10.8 p.m. Same conditions as
in preceding experiment. The same question. I thought of a person
who lives in the same house as Fraulein A. She first mentions a person
who lives next door. The second answer was quite right. No hints were
given. As we have probably about forty acquaintances in common,
the chances for a correct guess in Experiments 1 and 2 are 1 in 40.
That any latent excitation of the senses should have aroused the same
thought in both brains twice running seems to me improbable. It is
a noteworthy circumstance that the percipient immediately followed
me mentally to the neighbourhood where the person thought of is
usually to be found. While I thought of the person, I had vividly
before my eyes the image of the street in which that person lives.
Unconscious suggestion is here excluded.
3rd Experiment.—August 31st, 1890. 10.10 p.m. Duration, a few
seconds. All conditions and circumstances as in the previous experi
ment. "I am thinking of an object in this room." Answer: "Beer
tankard." (Right.) I had purposely refrained from looking at the
Experimental Studies in - Thought-Transference. 17
tankards on the table, nor was my attention drawn to this idea uncon
sciously, being the first presenting itself to me. On the contrary, I
chose this out of several competing ideas because it was easy to picture
to oneself. However, I do not object to this experiment being regarded
as a case of pseudo-thought-transference.
1th Experiment.—August 31st, 1890. 10.13 p.m. Same circum
stances as before. I should explain that my room is quite over
crowded with objects, pictures, pots, utensils, books, &c, so that
I often do not know where to put a thing down. I now think of an
Indian silk handkerchief, which, together with a pair of red Oriental
slippers, is in a basket exactly behind me; 1£ yards away from it there
is another Eastern handkerchief, hanging on a bookshelf. The two are
alike in colour, pattern, and size. I am quite certain that in this
choice my gaze was not unconsciously attracted by this handkerchief.
In order to meet any objection as to association of ideas, or unconscious
suggestion, I purposely chose something behind my back. My question,
"What thing in this room am I thinking about?" was answered at
once by the percipient. "About the red Turkish slippers." I reply,
" Nearly." The second answer was, " The Indian handkerchief."
(Right.) No hint led her to this, though there are other things in the
basket. The first answer seems to me more important than the second.
How comes it that the percipient at once accompanies me mentally to
the place where the selected object was, just as in the 2nd experi
ment? The sources of error mentioned cannot explain it ; some
unknown factor seems rather to be concerned.
Experiments 5, 6, 7, in which, in spite of the percipient's fatigue, I
tried to make her guess cards, failed completely. So did Experiment 8,
in guessing an object.
Experiment 9, in which Frau Eug.. tried to guess one of 10
numerals, also entirely failed.
10th Experiment.—October 15th, 1890. 8.30 p.m., with Eraulein A.r
who sat on chair 7. I sit on chair 8. A black fan is fastened, among
other objects, to the wall of my study over the sofa. I think of it
without looking at it. When choosing, I at first thought of taking
Fraulein A.'s hat as the object to be guessed. It lay upon a side table-
Question, " Of what thing in the room am I thinking?" Answer, "My
hat." Wrong, but wrong in a noteworthy way, because at first I had really
thought of choosing the hat. I may remark that, sitting on chair 8, I
had the fan in front of me, so that though unconscious suggestion by
an unconscious glance would have been easy in this case, the guess was
nevertheless wrong. I carried this experiment no further. At
10 o'clock I was sitting by chance on chair No. 4, so that the fan was
behind me. The experiment occurs to me again and I ask, " What did
c
18 Baron von Schrenck-Notzing.
I think of?" Answer, "Fan." (Right.) The interesting 17th experi
ment of the diagram series now followed. On this evening with No.
10 of the second series, and Nos. 17, 18, 19, 20 of the first series,
there was a quite inexplicable series of strikingly successful experi
ments, in spite of the greater strictness in the conditions. One is
inclined to believe in a change in the receptivity of the percipients,
dependent on some unknown factors ; as may be also concluded from
the experiments of Professors Richet and Sidgwick.
llth Experiment.—October 23rd, 1890. 8.50 to 8.53. Percipient,
Fraulein A. Agent, the writer. Percipient sits on chair 7, agent on
chair 8. On the table marked b are a number of different objects : six
books, two newspapers, a stethoscope, an induction coil, five electrodes,
an ash-tray, gloves, a lamp, a hat, <fee. I think of one of the books,
bound in red, which is on the table, and ask, " What object in the
room am I thinking of?" 1st answer, "Hat"; 2nd answer, "Book
with red binding." Question, " Which book ?" The percipient points
out a book which lies close to the one I had chosen, and which also has
a red binding. I do not believe that I drew Fraulein A.'s attention to
the table, or betrayed myself by involuntary indications ; but the
objection that there was some latent exciting cause for the brains of
both persons would have had some justification had the experiment
succeeded. I consider this experiment a failure, and that even had
it succeeded it would not prove anything.
12th Experiment.—October 19th. 9.9 to 9.12. Same conditions
and persons, &c, as in No. 11. On the cupboard in my study near
the entrance door there is a row of empty letter-paper boxes, with
flowers and gilding outside. Again, without looking at the object, I
ask, "What thing in the room ami thinking of?" 1st answer, " Of a
board painted with flowers." (The analogy is striking. There is such
a board hanging near the bow window in quite another part of the
room.) 2nd answer, "Of the round table." 3rd answer, "Of the
blue box standing on it." This box is also gilded. The box and
flowers agree ; the other points are wrong. I do not venture to decide
whether these 3 answers are the result of mere guessing. It is possible.
In any case I was careful to make no sign.
13th Experiment.—October 23rd. 10.35 to 10.40. Circumstances
and conditions as in the last. Seven numbers of two digits, written
down by me with the necessary precautions, are to be guessed in
succession.
Originals: 4, 23, 16, 55, 83, 30, 12.
Guesses: 44, 68, 24, 50, 47, 18, 34.
lith Experiment.—October 23rd, 1890. 10.40 to 10.42. Same
conditions.. Object thought of : the lamp shade. Four wrong answers.
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. 19
15th and l&th Experiments.—November 9th. 8.50 p.m. The same
persons and conditions as in the last experiments. A friend, E., is also
present. I think first of a cigarette. Three answers are made with
out success. Then E. writes the word " door handle " in another part
of the room. Three wrong answers.
17th Experiment.—November 1st, 1890, with my patient K., at
5.30. Thought of—44 ; guessed—7 and 22.
Besides these experiments I tried three, but without result, with
another person, who was hypnotised.
18</& Experiment.—Place, drawing-room of Frau K. Time, 7.19 to
7.20 p.m. Percipient, the daughter of Frau K.,—S., aged 17. Present,
Frau K., two ladies, and myself. The daughter is in the next room. I
tell the others that no one is to glance at the object touched and chosen
by me, but each is to look at something else, thinking, however, of the
thing I touch. I touch the sugar-tongs, lying on the sugar-basin,
among 30 or 40 things on the table. No word is uttered. I call
the daughter in. In my opinion the conditions excluded the possibility
of unconscious indications perceived by Fraulein K. While she was
still in the doorway she said, without stopping to think, " Sugar-
tongs." The success was very striking. I think this experiment con
vincing, as I watched the persons present closely.
The 19th Experiment, under the same conditions, is a failure. The
clock on the sideboard, the porcelain dial-plate was thought of, and
the answers were : (1) tray ; (2) sweetmeats; (3) water.
20th Experiment, tried with the same lady in hypnosis. Trans
ference of a drawing. Complete failure.
21st Experiment, under same conditions. Thought of, a top-hat ;
nothing was guessed. Complete failure.
Conclusion.
I have here reported all my experiments from January to Novem
ber, 1890 ; and with equal fulness on the positive and negative sides.
Forty-five experiments with percipients in a normal state are included,
one of which is made up of several (when 7 numbers were to be
guessed). Altogether, therefore, 51 experiments, with 6 persons ; 26
experiments made with drawings, and 25 with guessing of persons,
objects, numbers, and cards.
With regard to the susceptibility of the persons experimented with,
their ages range between 17 and 30 years ; one, whom I tried in
hypnosis, is not susceptible ; with another only one experiment suc
ceeded, and that the first. The other five show more susceptibility,
one among them is of the male sex, Graf S., who is moderately suscep
tible. Fraulein K., the last with whom the drawing experiments were
20 Baron von Schrenck-Notzing.
made, appears to have the right temperament, but to be insufficiently
developed. There are three others. Frau Eug. draws wrongly at first,—
but when the latent capacity is excited, the thought starts up with the
suddenness of lightning, and the figures are drawn with astonishing
correctness and completeness. Fraulein A. and Friiulein E. show the
greatest susceptibility. Fraulein E. seems to get hold of the elements
of the drawing, but is apt to reproduce them somewhat altered by
imagination. Fraulein A.'s are certainly the best performances. She,
as well as Graf S., displays the peculiarity of seizing the thought almost
as it arises. She immediately follows me in thought to the place of
the object to be guessed. For example, in the 2nd experiment of the
2nd series, what first occurs to me is the house and the street in which
the person I decide to think of lives, and she follows me there mentally
at once. Or I think of selecting an object among those in a basket
hanging in my room, and choose the handkerchief, though the red
slippers first present themselves for mental picturing. Her first answer
is " red slippers." In two cases she followed me immediately, without
any indication, to the table on which lay a number of objects, from
among which I intended to select. She chose the hat I had thought
of but given up, and the book lying near the selected one. When
in the experiment with the fan, which in the first part of the experi
ment arose in my mind as a second idea, I allowed an interval of more
than an hour to elapse, and then took up the idea again, this time as a
first idea, she guessed it at once. In the case of the seven numbers
she guesses only the first right, all the others wrong.
The same thing happens with the drawings. I draw two con
centric squares. She draws immediately a single square, and wishes
to stop. If I make her go on she gets wrong. She guesses the serpent
right at once, in spite of the closed door; and of original 18 she
divines what I first thought of, a triangle with a perpendicular. I
added to the drawing only to make the task more complicated. "What
is added as the result of reflective mental labour is less easily recognised
by many percipients than the idea almost in the act of surging up from
the unconscious,—the ]wocess offormation.
First experiments, as in the case of Fraulein K. (Experiment 18, 2nd
series), generally succeed the best, because the process of reflection
prevents, or at least acts as a check to success. The more, therefore,
the character of exact scientific investigation is made prominent in
experiments of this kind, the smaller become the chances of success.
Thus it is advisable to experiment often, and little at a time. Now
and then this strange power comes over persons of suitable temperament
like a flash ; but such moments are impossible to foresee. This power
appeared in Frau Eug. like lightning, and with Fraulein A. on one
evening (October 15th) it was so intense that experiments under
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. 21
stricter conditions, at a distance, succeeded better than simpler ones
on other occasions.
On the whole, I have convinced myself that persons who are very
suggestible, in whom imagination is active, and particularly those of
slightly hysterical temperament, are more suitable as percipients than
others. The power does not appear to be so rare as is believed ; the
difficulty lies rather in seizing the moment when such persons are
in the right mood. The psychical process is comparable to artistic
activity. Under the dissecting knife of scientific analysis no artistic
creation would be possible : it needs the undisturbed quiet of the
studio.
The repetition of similar ideas both in percipient and agent in the
series here given is also worthy of remark. For example, Fraulein A.
often thought first of some object near her, or of such as had already
been guessed. In reproduction 18 the lines of the serpent are still to
be seen. "Hat" and "Quart-pot" are repeated as first guesses, because
these objects had been chosen once. A critical survey of the objects
chosen by the agent is equally important. For example, repetition,
certainly unconscious and first observed in putting the experiments
together, occurs as follows:—
Originals 1, 6, and 11—three crosses.
Originals 2, 22—two circles (thought of by me).
Original 5—circles (thought of by Baron v. W.).
Originals 3, 13, 18—three triangles. (In originals 13 and 18 in
different combinations, with circles.)
Originals 7, 10, 14, 22— four squares (concentric squares, a figure
made of 5 squares, and a square with a circle).
Original 20 and that of Experiment 23—two mugs, and one cup
(Experiment 25).
Originals 8 and 12 both represent the figure 3.
As the percipients were different in different cases, this recurrence
affects the value of the experiments very little. For the same idea
cannot be shown to have recurred in a series of experiments with any
one person. And in first trials one prefers to choose simple figures.
Besides which, the manner of the reproduction is often decisive. If,
for example, two circles are placed one on the other as in reproduction
86, it is certain that the percipient was not thinking of a 3, but that
a figure, without definite meaning, was impressed upon her. Moreover,
the reproduction of peculiarities of combination and the correct grasp
ing of little accessories are very convincing. For instance, in connection
with Original 9, a W was seen, though I was thinking intently of a star;
with Original 12, a B was seen, instead of the number 3; with Original 4,
a cup, instead of the figure 1. Drawing 15 was seen as something like a
tower or pedestal; in 14 the peculiar arrangement of the five squares; in
22 Baron von Schrenck-Notzing.
reproduction 22c the relation of the circle with regard to part of the
square. Finally, even with agent and percipient separated, a quite
unlikely figure is correctly drawn at the right moment, that of the
serpent. These obvious and important results do not fit in with the
usual explanations ; and chance alone will not produce so large a
number of striking successes.
After full allowance for possible sources of error, there remains in
the way in which the results were obtained, and in the amount of
coincidence, something inexplicable which calls for further investigation,
and seems to indicate with some certainty the operation of a factor not
yet perceptible to our senses.
The plates which follow represent (1) the ground plan of the rooms
in which the experiments took place and (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,) drawings
and reproductions made in the experiments. These are tracedfrom, and
are, facsimiles of, the actual drawings of agent and percipients. It will
be noticed that the drawings are numbered consecutively, but that as the
drawings corresponding to every experiment are not given, the number
ing of the drawings does not correspond throughout with the number
ing of the experiments. The drawings are, however, always referred to
by their own numbers.
/
I
o
N
1
1
1
2- *—, fa c**.
'2a""
0
%<4
e
0
i
i <?> © $
6
Experiments in Automatic Writing. 23
II.
SOME RECENT EXPERIMENTS IN AUTOMATIC WRITING.
By Thomas Barkworth. .
It is well to state, at the outset of this paper, that it will not be
found to contain anything new or startling. Nor does it seem to me
that these characteristics are necessary to its usefulness. For though
such features have a value of their own in stimulating inquiry, and
in forming matter for assimilation by future investigators who shall
have ascertained the principles or laws which, in our present state of
knowledge, we are only groping after, they at present rather confound
than assist our reason. On the other hand, the more we gain in
experimental acquaintance with the psychical side of existence in the
living subject, the more likely of fruition, because the more easy of
classification, will be those rare and sporadic phenomena which may be
gleaned from the world of phantasm and of second sight.
While, therefore, facts of all kinds are valuable to us, the most
hopeful method of psychical research appears to me to proceed from the
known to the unknown, and from the simple to the complex, and thus,
by studying the grammar of research, to find gradually the meaning of
fact after fact which at present convey no more significance to us than
so many undeciphered hieroglyphics.
To no person are we more indebted for showing us this path to the
knowledge which we seek than to Edmund Gurney, whose experiments
in hypnotism have thrown a new light upon the constitution of human
personality in the living man, and my desire, in the kind of experiments
I am about to record, is to follow humbly in his footsteps.
In comparing hypnotic experiment with automatic writing, we find
both advantage and disadvantage. The advantages of hypnotism are
the opportunities for studying physiological as well as psychical
phenomena, the absolute control which it gives us over the subject,
unchecked by his self-consciousness, fear of ridicule, and the like, and
the greater security from conscious deception or prejudiced ideas which
it assures us of as long as hypnosis lasts. On the other hand, granting
the good faith of the automatic writer, we can obtain nearly as full
results on the psychical side, without risk, or the imputation of risk, to
the moral or physical well-being of the operator, and can pursue the
inquiry at any spare moment and with no further appliances than a
pencil and a sheet of paper.
24 Thomas Sarkworih.
One thing, however, is essential, and that is an unprejudiced mind.
In automatic writing we are confronted at once with a mysterious
intelligent agency, operating without the conscious will or mental
participation of the writer, but subject, as I am inclined to think, to
suggestion in the highest degree. Let it be impressed upon the mind
of the writer that this seemingly extraneous intelligence is extra-
mundane also, and it will respond to his ideas with the utmost fidelity.
Let him believe that he is holding intercourse with Satan, and it will
hasten to assure him of the fact, and to back up the assertion with
profane language ; or let him believe himself in communication with
some other spirit, celestial or terrestrial, and to the utmost of his own
knowledge, possessed or forgotten, will he be humoured to the top of his
bent. In all this we see just what might be expected from our
knowledge, already acquired, of the workings of the passive conscious
ness. Like clay in the hands of the potter1 the passive consciousness
of the hypnotised subject accepts the part assigned him, and he is
equally ready to believe himself a brooding hen or a water pump, and
to spread his arms for wings or work them up and down for handles.
In relating the few facts which I am about to describe, my principal
object is, however, not to sustain or assail any theories, but to stimulate
inquiry. My hope is that many persons may be induced to make
experiments who at present hold aloof from fear of meddling with what
is forbidden, or uncanny, or too serious for what they would deem
trifling. In the Journal for July I appealed for assistance in these
experiments, and from all those whom it reaches I only got replies
from two gentlemen, neither of whom, unfortunately, could use the
planchette. Is there no one, then, among our 700 members and
associates who has the gift, and can spare fifteen minutes now and then
to make experiments and record results 1
The operator in the following experiments is a young lady, aged
fifteen, an inmate of my household, and companion in study with my
own daughter. We have, therefore, the best means of estimating her
character and her bonafides, which, let me say at once, are, we consider,
beyond a doubt. She had not previously heard of Planchette, and
Spiritualism was, to her, a mere name. I took care from the first that
no ideas of this kind should be instilled, and she thus approached the
subject without any foregone conclusion. Most of the experiments
were made with the aid of the planchette. But latterly a pencil was
1 This simile is appropriate in the above particular connection, but it would be
far otherwise in a general description of the passive personality. The latter, in my
view, is passive more in the sense in which alocomotive is passively under the control
of the driver. But, like the locomotive, it would also be considered liable to
explosions, as of emotion, desperation, &c, and to misapplied, irregular, or insuffi
cient operation, as during insanity or intoxication.
Experiments in Automatic Writing. 25
used, held vertically between the points of the fingers and thumbs of
both hands, and once or twice the pencil was held in the ordinary way.
These changes, however, did not seem to affect the result. The first
experiments were attempted by this girl, whom I will call C, in con
junction with her companion, but it soon became evident that the latter
was merely a passenger, so to speak, and that C. was the real operator.
She was therefore left to write by herself. Unfortunately, she looked
upon the whole thing as a great bore, and, as I was unwilling to press
her, the experiments have only been few and far between. She never
knew what she had written till it was looked at, and there was often
some slight difficulty in deciphering it.
Thus the first question, Who are you that write ? produced what at
first I took to be mere scrawling, and C. shortly after left the room.
After she had done so I took another look at this scrawl, and then at
once perceived that it was legible, and that the name written in answer
to the question was " Henry Morton." I at once followed C. upstairs,
and asked her if she had ever heard the name, and she replied that it
was that of a character in a Christmas play she had acted in, more than
a year previously. Had the name, as it easily might have, been that
of some deceased friend, it is obvious what inference would have been
drawn. I give the next three questions just in the order they followed
on the next evening
2. Why do you write 1—A. Because I must.
3. What compels you to write 1—A. I do not know.
4. Henry Morton, do you know you are part of me ?—A. Yes,
I know.
The last question, being asked in a tone of conviction, amounted to
a suggestion, and was adopted accordingly. This docility was illus
trated in other ways. For instance, the planchette, having taken to
running straight off the paper after completing an answer, was told not
to do so again, and at once complied. I should here say that all the
questions and instructions to the planchette were first dictated by me
and then repeated aloud by the operator.
Some spelling tests followed. C. is not good at spelling, and feels
great uncertainty with difficult words. Her voluntary spelling of such
is very hesitating, and does not therefore give any suggestion to the
passive consciousness. The two personalities acted, therefore, inde
pendently of one another, with some curious results. I will give one
instance.
7. Spell psychical.—-A voluntary attempt was first made. Result :
Sicickle. C. was not told whether this was right or wrong, but was
told to try Planchette. Result : Cicicle.
Some questions in mental arithmetic were put, the planchette
26 Thomas Barkworih.
being instructed to write the answers only, without any calculation.
I am informed by her governess that C. has but little arithmetical
capability, and is backward for her age in this subject. Bearing this
in mind, I think the results were noteworthy. Directly the question
was put the instrument began to write the answer.
28. Divide 264 by 16. First of all an attempt was made to work
the sum voluntarily, and, with some delay, the answer given was "17
odd," which was wrong, but on Planchette being appealed to it at once
wrote 16 and 8 over, which was correct. As we had many instances
of the passive intelligence thus excelling the primary activities of the
mind, I may take this opportunity of saying that it is quite in accord
ance with what I had expected, and have elsewhere spoken of, but
whether this superiority is essential or accidental, whether, that is, it be
due to greater power or to greater concentration, cannot at present be
determined, at all events evidentially.
12. Divide 187,981 by 13. Answer, 14,463.
This is wrong by three only, and considering the normal powers of
the operator above-mentioned, I think it a somewhat remarkable
answer.
I now come to a class of questions designed to test the memory of
the passive consciousness.
What happened on the 1st June?
This question was asked in the last week of July. I chose the date
at hazard, and neither C. nor I had any recollection of it. But
Planchette answered " Went to church," and we then got an almanack
and found that the 1st June was a Sunday. This kind of question was
often tried with inconclusive results, but never with incorrect ones,
except on one occasion. Being asked in October what happened on
13th July, the answer was "Monday lessons."1 If Planchette
thought the day was Monday, it is rather curious that it should not
have said simply " lessons." In reality, however, the day was a
Sunday, and it would be not impossible that C. had during that Sun
day been worrying herself about the following day's work.
14. Who conquered Peru 1
The answer to this was written " Spires," and such an answer being
unintelligible, Planchette was made to repeat it, with the same result.
It then occurred to C.'s governess to fetch the volume of Collier's History
1 The manner in which the word "lessons " was written was a curiosity. After
writing Monday the tail of the y was brought back with elaborate flourishes, and the
first s in "lessons " was written ; then the e and the l were written backwards ; then
the pencil was carried forward with more flourishes and gyrations to the second s,
followed by the other letters in their order. So florid was all this scroll work that it
took much care to find afterwards what route the pencil had taken, though the word
was entirely legible.
Experiments in Automatic Writing. 27
,which C. had been reading three months previously. At the head of
one of the chapters was a table of dates which she had (at the time)
learnt by heart, among which were the following consecutively :—
Reformers called Protestants at
Spires 1529
League of Smalcald 1530
Pizarro conquers Peru 1533
The name of Pizarro, which C. had forgotten, is placed in print
exactly below the word Spires, and in this way the two words fell
together under C's eye, and became indelibly associated in what I have
elsewhere ventured to call the pictorial memory of the passive con
sciousness. The next experiments I shall describe exhibit memory in
another aspect.
11. Tell me something I don't know.—A. You have a shot in
your eye.
On examination, I found a small blood speck on the margin of the
iris of one eye. This C. assured me she had no idea existed. It is
probable, however, that she had at some time seen it in her looking-
glass when her mind was occupied with other matters.
17. Tell me something more.—No answer but scrawling.
18. You must write (peremptorily).—A. Frank Headley ill. (I
have altered the name.)
In answer to inquiries, C. said this was the name of a boy she had
met at the seaside two years before, but she knew no more about him,
not even where he lived. Accordingly the next question was,
19. What is Frank Headley's address ?—A. Lord Mayor's-walk.
C, who lived near York, thought there was a street of this name
there, but was not sure. It was not till she went home for the
holidays that she ascertained, through mutual friends, that Frank
Headley went to school in Lord Mayor's-walk, so that Planchette was
found to have answered correctly. The explanation suggested is, that
when he met her two years previously, he had mentioned this and she
had forgotten it. Planchette, however, was unable to give the number
in Lord Mayor's-walk, which perhaps he had never told her, and when
asked what he was ill with, replied " Cold in head."
Some experiments were made with the right and left hands con
secutively, thus—
27. Give the name of one of the principal Elizabethan statesmen.
Bight hand Answer.—Walpole.
Left hand Answer.—Walsingham.
The last group of questions asked referred to subjects which it was
certain C. did not know and never had known. For instance, "What is
the price of Egyptian Unified ? " " What is the second Christian name
28 Thomas Barkworth.
of So-and-so ? " &c. Invariably these questions produced no reply ; the
instrument only made scrawls. It may be quite possible, however,
that had an answer been insisted on, one would have been written (as
in the case of Frank Headley's alleged cold in the head), and neces
sarily an incorrect one, because of the writer's ignorance of the facts,
combined with the effects of suggestion compelling an answer of some
kind. This I am inclined to think may be the explanation of Mrs.
Newnham's answers under her husband's cross-examination1—answers
which he says were foreign to the conscious intelligence of either
of them, and which contained an attempt at deliberate invention
rather than plead guilty to total ignorance.'1 If, under suggestion, a
hypnotic subject were told to jump over a house, he would not be able
to do it, but he would jump as high as he could.
Among miscellaneous questions one only is worth recording. It
was, " Are you the spirit of my grandmother 1 " This was the only
time the idea of spirits was introduced, and as it was obviously put
jestingly, it did not convey any real suggestion of their agency.
The answer accordingly was, "No, I was in " ; and here
followed a remarkably well-executed outline map of Africa, such as
few persons, and certainly not C, could have drawn from memory ;
every important bay and promontory being—as we found on com
parison with the atlas—correctly shown, and in due proportion. At
one point only was it in error.
The explanation was not that C. was guided by some defunct
geographer or Africander, but that she had been getting up the
geography of Africa that morning with the aid of the map ; and thus
had the pictorial memory of the passive personality, unconsciously to
herself, recorded and reproduced this complicated observation, which
she had made without effort, and which was merely incidental to her
task.
1 [For accounts of Mr. and Mrs. Newnham's experiments, in which she wrote with
planchette and without conscious knowledge of what she wrote, appropriate answers
to questions written down by him at a different table and unknown to her, see
Proceedings, Vol. III., pp. 7-23, and Phantasms of the Liting, Vol. I., pp. 63-71.
-Ed.]
- These were all answers to questions not spoken aloud, but written down by Mr.
Newnham and not seen by Mrs. Newnham. It is a curious fact that while the
questions which were written down by Mr. Newnham were invariably apprehended by
Mrs. Newnham, the amioers, which were in some cases known to him and not to her
(e.g., Masonic secrets), were either not apprehended at all, or only in a very imperfect
degree. Can it be that for effective thought-transference it is helpful to give precision
and definiteness to the thought, by writing it down, or else speaking it aloud ? (This
last in another room, of course.) That the force of all suggestion must greatly depend
upon clear definition or expression is natural to expect, and there are many thoughts
which float through our minds and are grasped effectively by ourselves without
verbal formulas, but which, nevertheless, may require embodying in the latter to make
them transferable to other minds.
Experiments in Automatic Writing. 29
Such are the few and slight experiments which I have ventured to
lay before the society. I have done so mainly for two reasons ; firstly,
the hope that sufficient interest may be aroused in those who hear of
them to induce other and more important essays in this interesting
method of investigation ; and secondly, to indicate the lines on which
it may, as I think, be most profitably pursued.
It will be seen that, in one respect, these experiments bear in much
the same direction, and towards the same conclusions, as Miss X.'s
interesting paper on crystal-gazing. It would seem that nothing is
ever really forgotten, though the bygone memories evoked by pencil, or
crystal, may appear so new and strange that we fail to recognise them
as ever having been included in our experience.
30 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
III.
ON THE EVIDENCE FOR CLAIRVOYANCE.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
PART I.
Before beginning to examine the evidence for clairvoyance some
preliminary discussion as to what it is that we have to investigate
seems to be required. The word clairvoyance is often used very loosely
and with widely different meanings. In the present paper I intend to
denote by it a faculty of acquiring supernormally, but not by reading
the minds of persons present, a knowledge of facts such as we normally
acquire by the use of our senses. I do not limit it, notwithstanding
the derivation of the word, to knowledge which would normally be
acquired by the sense of sight, nor do I limit it to a knowledge of
present facts. A similar knowledge of past and, if necessary, of
future facts may be included.
On the other hand, I exclude the mere faculty of seeing apparitions
or visions, which is sometimes called clairvoyance. Clairvoyant
knowledge may reach the consciousness of the percipient in the form
of a vision, but no vision will here be termed clairvoyant unless it be
at least veridical ; which, it is needless to say, many—probably most—
visions and apparitions are not.
Again, the word will not be used to mean supernormal knowledge
of a simple fact such as we are accustomed to think of as the result of
telepathy. A dies, let us say, and at the same time his friend B at a
distance has an impression about A, or sees an apparition of A, or
perhaps even knows that A is dying. If the knowledge goes no further
than this I shall regard it as a case of simple telepathy, as distinct
from clairvoyance. But it sometimes happens that B seems to see the
scene of A's death as it actually occurred, with details which we can
hardly suppose to have originated in the mind of B by accident, or to
be due to previous knowledge or association, and which are unlikely to
have been consciously in the mind of A. Such a case as this may be
conveniently discussed under the head of clairvoyance, even though we
may think telepathy a sufficient explanation of the facts, because, as
will be seen in the sequel, there are very similar cases where the
telepathic hypothesis is difficult to apply.
One class of cases—often called clairvoyant by old writers we
shall exclude, namely, those in which the knowledge exhibited by the
percipient is already in the mind of some person present. Experiment
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 31
has proved that percipients will seem to themselves to see independently
scenes which have no existence except in the mind of a person present,
so that the impression if supernormal at all must be due to thought-
transference. A good instance of this is given in Phantasms of the
Living (Vol. I., p. 96), where Mrs. W., hypnotised by Mr. G. A. Smith,
and describing, apparently clairvoyantly, a room unknown to her, but
known to Mr. Smith, descried on the table an open umbrella which
had no existence except in Mr. Smith's imagination. Cases like this
show that though, if a faculty of independent clairvoyance exists, it
may doubtless be exercised in the presence of persons cognisant of the
facts clairvoyantly known, it can hardly under these circumstances
prove its existence. But though the evidential reason for dividing off
these cases from clairvoyance proper is clear, I am not prepared to say
that the line so drawn has much scientific value. It is undeniable that
such evidence as we have of clairvoyant perception of things at a dis
tance is often very much mixed up with evidence of similar perceptions
possibly due to thought-transference from persons present, and this
suggests the possibility that clairvoyant perception of distant scenes is
facilitated when it can be led up to by thought-transference from those
present.
The fact is, we know too little about our subject to be able at
present to define it scientifically, and it is very doubtful whether, by
any definition that could be framed, we could mark off a class of
phenomena having any common explanation peculiar to themselves.
All we can do now is, as it were, to define provisionally a certain
region to explore, in the hope that the definition may aid us in ascer
taining what facts we have to explain, in tracing connections with
already known facts, such as telepathy and hyperaesthesia, and in
discovering how far the evidence requires us to extend our concep
tions of the possibility of acquiring supernormal knowledge, and of
the modes in which such supernormal knowledge may be obtained.
The subject as we have defined it naturally divides itself into two
main parts—clairvoyant knowledge of facts which are known to
somebody somewhere, such as what A B is doing at a distance ; and
clairvoyant knowledge of facts unknown to anyone in the world, such
as a number drawn at random from a bag and not looked at. In the
present paper I propose to deal with the first kind of clairvoyance
only.
Before proceeding to the evidence, it will be well to consider
briefly the sources of error to be guarded against, and the possible
explanations of the phenomena. There is, of course, the usual
possibility of absence of bona fides. The probability or improbability
of this in each particular case my readers must estimate for them
selves, but in the present paper I shall not bring forward any cases
32 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
where such an explanation, seems at all probable to myself. Further,
there is the usual allowance to be made for inaccuracy and for defects
of memory, many of the records not having been made at the time.
These possibilities have been fully discussed in Phantasms of the
Living, and need not be dwelt on further here. In a subsequent
paper allowance will have also to be made for possible mal-observation,
and it will have to be considered whether knowledge supposed to be
inaccessible to the clairvoyant by ordinary means really was so; and
extended sense perception (hyperaesthesia) and latent memory are further
explanations that will be chiefly applicable in this later discussion. The
possible explanations which are of most importance in the present paper
are chance coincidence, shrewd guessing, and finally telepathy; the last
of which must be kept in view throughout, for, as we are dealing with
a percipience of facts known to some distant person, the question may
always be raised whether his knowledge had anything to do with the
percipience. With this hypothesis in view, I shall try as far as I con
veniently can to arrange the cases I have to bring forward according
to the degree of difficulty in applying it, taking into account the con
nection, if any, between this distant person—whom we may provision
ally call the agent—and the percipient, the extent to which the agent
had his mind directed towards the percipient, and the question whether
any crisis was at the moment occurring in the agent's life.
I shall begin with cases closely parallel to many which have been
included in Phantasms of the Living as cases of telepathic clairvoyance,
and in which telepathy is primd facie the simplest explanation. In
these cases the agent is clearly designated, and also his connection with
the percipient ; and the experience of the supposed agent at the moment
is generally of a marked and exceptional character. Moreover, in most
of these cases the initiative, or at least the psychical disturbance or
impulse which leads to the vision, is, so far as we can see, entirely on
the side of the agent, the percipient being in an apparently normal
state and not expecting or seeking any vision.
The first case I shall give comes to us through the American
Branch of the Society. Mr. A. B. Wood writes to Mr. R A. Nims,
an Associate of the American Branch, as follows:—
"Muskegon, April 29th, 1890.
(L. 868.) "Incompliance with your suggestion, supplemented by the
request of Mr. Richard Hodgson, I sought an interview with Mrs. Agnes
Paquet, and obtained the following information regarding her strange experi
ence on the day of her brother's death. I submit the papers to you feeling
that they should go forward with the fullest and clearest information obtain
able, and believing that you may suggest other questions the answers to
which may have important bearing on the case.
" A. B. Wood."
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 33
Statement of Accident.
" On October 24th, 1889, Edmund Dunn, brother of Mrs. Agnes Paquet,
was serving as fireman on the tug Wolf, a small steamer engaged in towing
vessels in Chicago Harbour. At about 3 o'clock a.m., the tug fastened to a
vessel, inside the piers, to tow her up the river. While adjusting the tow-
line Mr. Dunn fell or was thrown overboard by the tow-line, and drowned.
The body, though sought for, was not found until about three weeks after
the accident, when it came to the surface near the place where Mr. Dunn
disappeared."
Mrs. Paquet's Statement.
" I arose about the usual hour on the morning of the accident, probably
about six o'clock. I had slept well throughout the night, had no dreams or
sudden awakenings. I awoke feeling gloomy and depressed, which feeling I
could not shake" off. After breakfast my husband went to his work, and, at
the proper time, the children were gotten ready and sent to school, leaving
me alone in the house. Soon after this I decided to steep and drink some
tea, hoping it would relieve me of the gloomy feelings aforementioned. I
went into the pantry, took down the tea canister, and as I turned around
my brother Edmund—or his exact image—stood before me and only a few
feet away. The apparition stood with back toward me, or, rather, partially
so, and was in the act of falling forward—away from me—seemingly impelled
by two ropes or a loop of ropa drawing against his legs. The vision lasted
but a moment, disappearing over a low railing or bulwark, but was very
distinct. I dropped the tea, clasped my hands to my face, and exclaimed,
'My God! Ed. is drowned.'
''At about half-past ten a.m. my husband received a telegram from Chicago,
announcing the drowning of my brother. When he arrived home he said to
me, 'Ed. is sick in hospital at Chicago; I have just received a telegram,*
to which I replied, ' Ed. is drowned ; I saw him go overboard.' I then gave
him a minute description of what I had seen. I stated that my brother, as
I saw him, was bareheaded, had on a heavy, blue sailor's shirt, no coat, and
that he went over the rail or bulwark. I noticed that his pants' legs were rolled
up enough to show the white lining inside. I also described the appearance
of the boat at the point where my brother went overboard.
"I am not nervous, and neither before nor since have I had any experi
ence in the least degree similar to that above related.
"My brother was not subject to fainting or vertigo.
" Agnes Paquet."
Mr. Paqnet's Statement.
" At about 10.30 o'clock a.m., October 24th, 1889, I received a telegram
from Chicago, announcing the drowning of my brother-in-law, Edmund
Dunn, at 3 o'clock that morning. I went directly home, and, wishing to break
the force of the sad news I had to convey to my wife, I said to her : ' Ed. is
sick in hospital at Chicago ; I have just received a telegram.' To which she
replied : ' Ed. is drowned ; I saw him go overboard.' She then described to
me the appearance and dress of her brother as described in her statement ;
also the appearance of the boat, &c.
"I started at once for Chicago, and when I arrived there I found the
D
34 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
appearance of that part of the vessel described by my wife to be exactly as
she had described it, though she had never seen the vessel ; and the crew
verified my wife's description of her brother's dress, &c, except that they
thought that he had his hat on at the time of the accident. They said that
Mr. Dunn had purchased a pair of pants a few days before the accident
occurred, and as they were a trifle long before, wrinkling at the knees, he had
worn them rolled up, showing the white lining as seen by my wife.
'' The captain of the tug, who was at the wheel at the time of the accident,
seemed reticent. He thought my brother-in-law was taken with a fainting fit
or vertigo and fell over backward ; but a sailor (Frank Yemont) told a friend
of mine that he (Yemont) stood on the bow of the vessel that was being
towed and saw the accident. He stated that my brother-in-law was caught
by the tow-line and thrown overboard, as described by my wife. I think that
the captain, in his statement, wished to avoid responsibility, as he had no
right to order a fireman—my brother-in-law's occupation—to handle the
tow-line.
" My brother-in-law was never, to my knowledge, subject to fainting or
vertigo.
" Peter Paquet."
Mr. Wood writes again on August 12th, 1890 :—
" In accordance with request, I have had statements made in first
person.
' ' I have made diligent inquiry, but cannot place the sailor Yemont. A
letter sent to his last known, or supposed, address has been returned, marked
' Not called for. ' . . .
"A. B. Wood."
Here Mrs. Paquet not only had a vivid impression of her brother
within a few hours of his death—not only knew that he was dead—
but saw a more or less accurate representation of the scene of his
death.
It will have been noticed that her impression was not contempo
raneous with the event to which it related, but occurred some six hours
afterwards. It was preceded by a feeling of depression with which
she had awoken in the morning, and one is at first tempted to suppose
that she had dreamed of the event and forgotten it, and that her sub
sequent vision was the result of a sudden revivification of the dream
in her memory. But we do not know enough to justify us in assuming
this, and against such a hypothesis may be urged the experience of
Mrs. Storie related in Phantasms of the Living (Vol. I., p. 370,
No. 134), which somewhat resembles Mrs. Paquet's. Mrs. Storie tells
us that all the evening she felt unusually nervous, and then, when
she went to bed, she had a remarkable dream, in which she saw a
series of scenes which afterwards turned out to have a clear relation
to the death of her brother, who had been killed by a passing
train four hours earlier. In her case the nervousness cannot be
regarded as telepathic, as it is stated to have begun before the accident,
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance.
but it seems quite possible that the nervousness and depression may
have had to do with some condition in the percipient which rendered
the vision possible.
Another case remarkably like Mrs. Paquet's and exhibiting the
same characteristics of depression and deferment is No. 65 in Phantasms
of the Living (Vol. I., p. 268). Compare also Cases 144 and 135 in the
same volume. Mr. (xurney regarded deferment as a strong point
in favour of a telepathic explanation of such occurrences (same
vol., p. 373).
The next, though the accident was fortunately of a less serious
nature, is a very striking case, and the fact that the percipient
recorded her vision almost at once, and before she knew it to be
veridical, gives it a very high evidential value. It was sent to us by
Dr. Elliott Coues, of Washington, a week after its occurrence. Dr.
Coues writes :—
"1726, N-street, N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A., January 21st, 1889.
(L. 829.) "Among many cases which are within my knowledge, of the
possession and exercise of certain psychic faculties on the part of persons
commonly called clairvoyant, I select one which I think will interest your
Society, not on account of its mystery or novelty, but of its extreme
simplicity and thorough authentication. The incident itself is of the most
trivial character, followed by no consequences whatever to the person to
whom the little accident occurred, and I can see no reason why it should
have stimulated a clairvoyant's faculties into activity, more than any one of a
thousand little occurrences of any day ; unless it may be (as is indeed
probable) that some specially strong magnetic rapport existed between the
unconscious "agent" on the one hand and the surprised "percipient " on the
other. Both parties to this unexpected and unintended experiment in
psychic science are well known to me. Mrs. E. A. Conner, who kindly, at
my request, allows the use of her name, is widely known in this country as a
writer and speaker of no ordinary ability. The other lady desires to remain
unknown by name, but I can attest her rare psychical faculties and absolute
integrity, after an intimate acquaintance of several years' duration.
"The case is simply this : In Washington, D.C., January 14th, 1889,
between 2 and 3 p.m., Mrs. Conner is going up the steps of her residence,
No. 217, Delaware-avenue, carrying some papers. She stumbles, falls, is
not hurt, picks herself up, and enters the house.
'' At or about the same time—certainly within the hour, probably within
30 minutes, perhaps at the very moment - -another lady, whom I will call
Mrs. B., is sitting sewing in her room, about lh miles distant. The two
ladies are friends, though not of very long standing. They had walked
together the day before (Sunday, January 13th), but had not met this day
(the 14th). Mrs. B. " sees " the little accident in every detail. The vision
or image is minutely accurate (as it afterwards proves). Nevertheless, it is
so wholly unexpected and unaccountable, that she doubts it were not a pass
ing figment of her imagination. But the mental impression is so strong;
D 2
3G Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
that she keeps thinking it over, and sits down and writes a letter to Mrs.
Conner, which I enclose. The letter is written, of course, without any
communication whatever between the two ladies. Mrs. Conner receives it
next morning, Tuesday, the 15th. I happened to call on Mrs. Conner that
day, on another errand, when she hands me the letter, and verifies it in every
essential particular to me verbally, from her side of the case. The little
accident had happened exactly as Mrs. B. described it from the clairvoyant
image she perceived.
'' You are at liberty to use the letter for publication, only suppressing the
writer's name. Its naivete and spontaneousness, and obvious lack of any
possible afterthought, reflect the occurrence so perfectly that what I have
written would be superfluous, were it not that I thus am able to attest,
from Mrs. Conner herself, that the psychical impression made on Mrs. B.
was the exact reflection of an actual occurrence.
"Elliott Coubs."
The letter referred to is as follows :—
" Monday Evening, January 1ith, 1889.
"My Dear Friend,—I know you will be surprised to receive a note
from me so soon, but not more so than I was to-day when you were shown
to me clairvoyantly, in a somewhat embarrassed position. I doubt very
much if there was any truth in it, nevertheless, will relate it, and leave you
to laugh at the idea of it.
"I was sitting in my room sewing, this afternoon, about two o'clock,
when what should I see but your own dear self ; but, Heavens ! in what a
position. Now, I don't want to excite your curiosity too much, or try your
patience too long, so will come to the point at once. You were falling up
the front steps in the yard. You had on your black skirt and velvet waist,
your little straw bonnet, and in your hand were some papers. When you
fell, your hat went in one direction and the papers in another. You got up
very quickly, put on your bonnet, picked up the papers, and lost no time
getting into the house. You did not appear to be. hurt, but looked some
what mortified. It was all so plain to me that I had ten notions to one to
dress myself and come over and see if it were true, but finally concluded
that a sober, industrious woman like yourself would not be stumbling
around at that rate, and thought I'd best not go on a wild goose chase.
Now, what do you think of such a vision as that ? Is there any possible
truth in it 1 I feel almost ready to scream with laughter whenever I think
of it ; you did look too funny, spreading yourself out in the front yard.
' Great was the fall thereof. '
"I can distinctly call to mind the house in which you live, but for the
life of me I cannot tell whether there are any steps from the sidewalk into
the yard, as I saw them, or not.
" Now do tell me, dear, if I saw correctly or not, or if the thing was
shown me simply to give me something to laugh about 1
"Hope you got home last night without any adventures. And now
' Good-night.'
" Sincerely your friend, "
This letter came to us in an envelope addressed : Mrs. E. A. Conner.
217, Del. Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C., and with the postmarks,
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 37
Washington, D.C., Jan. 15, 7 a.m., 1889, and Washington, N.E.C.S., Jan.
15, 8 a.m. Some further letters in the postmarks are illegible.
Mr. Myers wrote to Mrs. Conner (who has now moved to New York)
asking certain questions relating to the incident, to which she replied on
March 7th, 1889. The questions and her answers are printed below.
Question 1.—(a) "Did Mrs. B.'s letter give a true description of the accident
(as you have already said to Dr. Coues that it did) ? "
(6) " Was the dress ('black skirt, velvet waist, little straw bonnet') correctly
described 1 and was this the dress in which Mrs. B. had last seen you 1 "
Ansicer 1.—(a) " I can only repeat—Yes, exactly."
(b) " As correctly as if I had described it myself. I do not know whether
it was the dress in which Mrs. B. had last seen me or not, but it was one
she had often seen."
Question 2.—"In what way did you identify the time of the accident?
It looks as though Mrs. B.'s vision—' soon after 2 '—might have
preceded the accident, which Dr. Coues speaks of as occurring 'between
2 and 3."'
Answer 2. — "I was writing that day in the Congressional Library. I
finished my work, and passed out through the Capitol Building. As I
did so, I glanced at the large clock in the hall, and it lacked 20 minutes
to 3. It was not more than a minute till I reached the steps where I
fell, so that it must have been within a few seconds of 19 minutes to
three. I have no means of ascertaining whether the vision preceded
the accident."
Question 3.—" Have you ever heard from Mrs. B. that she had any vision of
you of the kind, at any other time ? and, if so, was it correct 1 "
Ansicer 3.—"Mrs B. and myself are intimate friends. She had seen a
vision of me once or twice previously, merely as an appearance, not
doing anything in particular."
Question 4.—"For form's sake I will ask you to state whether a slip on the
front steps like this is unique in your experience 1 "
Ansicer 4.—" I have stumbled and fallen a few times in my life, not oftener
than other people."
,"To me the most convincing proof of the correctness of the vision is a
sentence you will find like this, if I remember right, in the letter : ' I
do not know if there are steps from the sidewalk to the yard,' &c. The
queer fact is that there were two steps from the sidewalk to the yard,
the street having been cut down. On the top one of these two steps, in
the yard, I stumbled. Mrs. B. had never seen this house, I having only
removed thither a few days before.
"Eliza Archard Conner."
The next case, also American, resembles the two last, except that
the percipient's experience was a dream instead of a waking vision, and,
therefore, in so far as a dream is a more common experience than a
waking vision, more likely to have been due to chance coincidence,
though the correspondence in time, and the vividness and definiteness
38 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
of the dream make this explanation very improbable. The percipient,
Mr. H. M. Lee, son of the late Dr. Henry Lee, Bishop of Iowa, writes
to a relative as follows :—
"Syracuse, N.Y., December 16th, 1887.
(L. 869.) " It will be well to understand that there was a peculiar bond
of affection between my father and myself, more than is usual between
father and son, and for ye:irs I seemed to know and feel when he was in
danger, though many miles separated us. One of many instances I recall.
During the war my father had occasion to go to Saint Joseph, Mo. To
reach there he wont to Quincy, 111. , taking the Hannibal and Saint Joseph
R.R. during the day. While I was attending to my duties in the bank, I
suddenly became aware that my father was in danger ; and upon his return
I asked him about it. lie informed me the car he was in left the track and
turned over twice in its descent down the embankment. The shock rendered
him unconscious, and, in fact, he was carried out for a dead man. It was
fully twenty minutes before he returned to consciousness. Of course, he
being so large and heavy, he was severely shaken up, but was able to con
tinue his journey, and perform his duties. It was his intention to say
nothing about the accident, as we were all of us anxious about him during his:
visitations, the times were so troublesome and so many trains derailed and
fired into ; but when he found I knew about it—hou; neither of us knew—he
told me, in confidence, that the accident occurred at the time I was made
aware of it. Ever after that I seemed to follow him, and knew when he was.
in danger, though powerless to prevent the disaster.
" On the night he fell downstairs [in 1874], I had returned home from
my business about eight o'clock, after a very hard day's work, and was very
tired, so immediately after supper I retired. It is my practice to sleep on
the back side of the bed. We slept with our head to the north, bringing me
on the west side of the bed. I went to sleep as soon as my head touched the
pillow, and slept the sleep of exhaustion. I did not hear my wife come to
bed, and knew nothing till I saw father at the top of the stairs in the act of
falling. I jumped to catch him and landed on the floor on my feet, with
considerable noise. My wife awoke and wanted to know what on earth I
was trying to do. I by that time had lighted a lamp, and upon looking at
my watch found it was a quarter-past tvvro. I asked my wife if she heard
the crash. She said No. I then told her what I had seen, but she tried to
laugh me out of it, not succeeding, however. I slept no more that night ; in
fact did not go to bed again ; so vivid was the whole thing to me that I knew
father was badly hurt. Early in the morning I went to town and telegraphed
home, inquiring if all was well, and received a letter from father which fully
corresponded with my vision to the very minute. The sad result of the fall
we all too well know, but how I, fully three hundred miles from him, smc
him fall I do not pretend to account for, and if you, in the course of your
investigation, can throw any light on the matter, you will do me a great
favour by kindly writing me.
"H. M. Lee."
Mr. Hodgson received the following independent account of the same
incident from the Bishop of Algowa.
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 3d
"Toronto, December 29th [1887].
" My Dear Sir,—The incident in Bishop Lee's history, referred to in
my previous letter, was as follows :—
" Some time during the summer of 1874 the Bishop occupied for the first
time a new residence (in either Davenport or Burlington, Iowa), built for
him by his diocese. Not being accustomed to the interior arrangements, he
one night took a false step, turning towards the stairway instead of his own
room, and fell down the stairs, a flight, I think, of twenty-one steps. As
might be expected, he was very seriously injured, though, strange to say, for
a man of his unusual weight, no bones were broken. Needing special care
and medical treatment, the Bishop came to Hyde Park, near Chicago, in
which city I was then residing. At the time of the Bishop's fall, one of his
sons was resident in a city several hundred miles west of Iowa—Denver, I
think. One night this son jumped up out of his sleep in a state of great
alarm and excitement, crying out, ' Father has had a bad fall. ' His wife
endeavoured to calm him, saying he had only had a bad dream, but his reply
was, ' No, it was no dream, I heard the fall. ' He rose, struck a light, and
looked at his watch. It was the very night on which and almost to the
minute the very time at which the Bishop had fallen.
"This narrative I had from the Bishop's own lips. He died shortly after,
of traumatic erysipelas.
" Commending this remarkable incident to the attention of your Society,
I remain, &c,
" E. Sullivah, Bishop of Algowa."
A case singularly like this, where Canon Warburton starts from
sleep seeing his brother fall downstairs, will be found in Phantasms of
the Living (Vol. I., p. 338, No. 108). Compare also No. 24 in the same
volume, p. 202.
The next case was sent to us in August, 1890, by Madame A. do
Holstein, of 29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris, an Associate of our Society
who has rendered us valuable assistance in other ways. It is somewhat
less well evidenced than the last, since the dream was not mentioned to
anyone before its veridical character was recognised ; it seems, however,
to have made so much impression at the time on Dr. Golinski as to make
it improbable that the details have been read back to any great extent.
The case is unlike those we have already quoted, in that the clairvoyant
impression appears to have been due not to any connection between
agent and percipient, or any special crisis occurring to the agent, but
to her intense anxiety to have his assistance. The narrative was sent
to us in French and we give here a translation, omitting a few medical
details which do not materially affect the case.
(L. 870.) Dr. Golinski, practising at Krementchug, in Russia, com
municates to us the following incident :—
" I am in the habit of dining at about 3 o'clock in the afternoon, and
of sleeping for an hour or an hour and a half after the meal. In July, 1888,
40 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
I lay down on a sofa as usual, and went to sleep about 3.30. I dreamt that
the door bell rang, and that I had the usual rather disagreeable sensation
that I must get up and go to some siek person. Then I found myself trans
ported directly into a little room with dark hangings. To the right of the
door leading into the room is a chest of drawers, and on this I see a little
paraffin lamp of a special pattern. I am keenly interested in the shape of
this little lamp, different from any it has previously happened to me to see.
To the left of the door I see a bed, on which lies a woman suffering from
severe haemorrhage. I do not know how I come to know that she has a
haemorrhage, but I know it. I examine her, but rather to satisfy my
conscience than for any other reason, as I know beforehand how things are,
although no one speaks to me. Afterwards I dream vaguely of medical
assistance which I give, and then I awake in an unaccustomed manner.
Generally I awake slowly, and remain for some minutes in a drowsy state,
but this time I awoke almost with a start, as if someone had awakened me.
As I awoke I heard a clock strike the half-hour. I asked myself, ' What
half-hour is it then 1 ' and looking at my watch I saw that it was half-past four.
' ' I got up, smoked a cigarette, and walked up and down my room in a
state of unusual excitement, thinking over the dream I had just had. It
was rather a long time since I had had a case of haemorrhage of any sort
among my clients, and I wondered what could have suggested this dream.
"About 10 minutes after I awoke the door bell rang, and I was
summoned to a patient. Entering the bedroom I was astonished, for I
recognised the room of which I had just dreamt. The patient was a sick
woman, and what struck me especially was the paraffin lamp placed on the
chest of drawers exactly in the same place as in my dream, and of the sa%e
pattern, which I had never seen before. My astonishment was so great that
I, so to speak, lost the clear distinction between the past dream and the
present reality, and, approaching the sick woman's bed, said affirmatively,
' You have a haemorrhage ! ' only recovering myself when the patient
replied, ' Yes, but how do you know it ? ' . . .
"Struck with the strange coincidence between my dream and what I saw,
I asked the patient when she had decided to send for me. She told me that
she had been unwell since the morning. About 1 p.m. a slight haemorrhage
commenced and some pain, but she paid no attention to it. The haemorrhage
became severe after 2 o'clock and the patient began to grow anxious. Her
husband not being at home she did not know what to do, and lay down,
thinking it would pass. Between 3 and 4 o'clock she was still undecided and
in great anxiety. About 4.30 she decided to send for me. The distance
between my house and that of the patient is 20 minutes' walk.
" I only knew her from having attended her in illness some time before,
and knew nothing of her present state of health.
" In a general way I seldom dream, and this is the only dream I ever had
which I have always remembered, on account of its veridical character."
Dr. Golinski left Paris suddenly for Russia without having signed the
above account, which was taken down from his lips in Russian by Madame
de Holstein and translated by her into French. Subsequently he wrote to
Mr. Myers a letter, of which we translate part as follows :—
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 41
" Lubny, Government of Poltava, Russia, October 15th, 1890.
" Sir,—I have received from Dr. Holstein, of Paris, a letter asking me to
confirm all that he has written to you as to the veridical dream which I had
last year [really two years before]. It was the first time in my life that I
had a similar sleep, and it seemed to me so remarkable that I related it to
my friend Dr. Holstein, asking Madame Holstein to take notes in English
for the Psychical Society of London. I have re-read the notes taken by
Madame Holstein, concerning a dream which I had in the month of July,
1888, and I can state here that these notes are exact. I should add that I
practise medicine, and that psychological questions are not unfamiliar to me,
but in psychology, as in science in general, I am too much of a positivist to
draw conclusions from this or any similar facts. Where you see indubitable
psychical action I see only a chance coincidence. But I value facts above
theories, and it is for that reason that I am glad to be useful to the Psychical
Society of London. . . .
"0. Golinski."
We may perhaps compare with this case No. 141, Phantasms of the
Living (Vol. I., p. 379), though the parallelism is not very close.
I pass on to a case of an entirely different character, and which is
specially interesting as belonging to the rare class of "reciprocal" cases
—cases, that is, where there appears to be a mutual perception between
the parties concerned; both are agents and both percipients. In the
present instance there is the further complication that a third person
shared the percipience of one of them. The experience of only one of
the persons concerned—Mrs. Wilmot—rbears on our present subject.
She seemed to herself to be transported to the distant scene where her
husband was, and did actually apparently learn some details about his
surroundings which she is hardly likely to have imagined. The case is
again an American one. The first letter quoted is addressed to Colonel
T. W. Higginson, an Associate of the American Branch.
"Bridgeport, Ct., December 18th, 1889.
(L. 871.) "If the enclosed narrative is of any interest to the Committee
of the Society for Psychical Research it may be placed in the archives or be
published. The incidents were related to me by Mr. S. R. Wilmot, a manu
facturer of this city, several years ago, and I wrote them down from memory,
and he afterwards revised the manuscript. Mr. Wilmot and his wife and
sister are still living here, and would, no doubt, be happy to answer any
questions about the matter.
' ' He does not know that I have had his narrative compared with a tile of
the New York Herald, as per memorandum appended. It seems to stand the
test pretty well, however.
"If published, please do not give my name, as I have simply acted as
scribe, and have no personal knowledge about the incidents.
"W. B. H."
With this letter was sent a copy of the original manuscript, which runs
as follows :—
42 Mrs. H. Sidgwiek.
"On October 3rd, 1863, I sailed from Liverpool for New York, on the
steamer City of Limerick, of the Inman line, Captain Jones commanding. On
the evening of the second day out, soon after leaving Kinsale Head, a severe
storm began, which lasted for nine days. During this time we saw neither
sun nor stars nor any vessel ; the bulwarks on the weather bow were carried
away, one of the anchors broke loose from its lashings, and did considerable
damage before it could be secured, and several stout storm sails, though
closely reefed, were carried away, and the booms broken.
"Upon the night following the eighth day of the storm the tempest
moderated a little, and for the first time since leaving port I enjoyed refresh
ing sleep. Toward morning I dreamed that I saw my wife, whom I had left
in the United States, come to the door of my state-room, clad in her night
dress. At the door she seemed to discover that I was not the only occupant
of the room, hesitated a little, then advanced to my side, stooped down
and kissed me, and after gently caressing me for a few moments, quietly
withdrew.
"Upon waking I was surprised to see my fellow passenger, whose berth
was above mine, but not directly over it—owing to the fact that our room
was at the stern of the vessel—leaning upon his elbow, and looking fixedly
at me. 'You're a pretty fellow,' said he at length, 'to have a lady come
and visit you in this way.' I pressed him for an explanation, which he at
first declined to give, but at length related what he had seen while wide
awake, lying in his berth. It exactly corresponded with my dream.
'' This gentleman's name was William J. Tait, and he had been my
room-mate in the passage out, in the preceding July, on the Cunard steamer
Olympus; a native of England, and son of a clergyman of the Established
Church. He had for a number of years lived in Cleveland, in the State of
Ohio, where he held the position of librarian of the Associated Library. He
was at this time perhaps fifty years of age—by no means in the habit of
practical joking, but a sedate and very religious man, whose testimony upon
any subject could be taken unhesitatingly.
' ' The incident seemed so strange to me that I questioned him about it,
and upon three separate occasions, the last one shortly before reaching port,
Mr. Tait repeated to me the same account of what he had witnessed. On
reaching New York we parted, and I never saw him afterward, but I
understand that he died, a number of years ago, in Cleveland.
" The day after landing I went by rail to Watertown, Conn., where my
children and my wife had been for some time, visiting her parents. Almost
her first question, when we were alone together, was, ' Did you receive a
visit from me a week ago Tuesday V 'A visit from you ? ' said I, ' we were
more than a thousand miles at sea. ' ' I know it, ' she replied, ' but it seemed
to me that I visited you.' 'It would be impossible,' said I. 'Tell me what
makes you think so.'
" My wife then told me that on account of the severity of the weather
and the reported loss of the Africa, which sailed for Boston on the same day
that we left Liverpool for New York, and had gone ashore at Cape Race,
she had been extremely anxious about me. On the night previous, the same
night when, as mentioned above, the storm had just begun to abate, she had
lain awake for a long time thinking of me, and about four o'clock in the
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance.
morning it seemed to her that she went out to seek me. Crossing the wide
and stormy sea, she came at length to a low, black steamship, whose side she-
went up, and then descending into the cabin, passed through it to the stem
until she came to my state-room. 'Tell me,' said she, 'do they ever have
state-rooms like the one I saw, where the upper berth extends further back
than the under one ? A man was in the upper berth, looking right at
me, and for a moment I was afraid to go in, but soon I went up to the side
of your berth, bent down and kissed you, and embraced you, and then
went away. '
" The description given by my wife of the steamship was correct in all
particulars, though she had never seen it. I find by my sister's diary that we
sailed October 4th ; the day we reached New York, 22nd ; home, 23rd.
" With the above corrections I can very willingly subscribe my name.
" S. R. Wilmot.
'' Should you desire to rewrite this and have me sign my name in ink, I
will willingly do so, and my wife will add hers to the correctness of her
dream.—S. R. W."
Later, Mr. W. B. H. sent the original manuscript to Mr. Hodgson to
examine, saying :—
"February 21st, 1890.
" I send you herewith, not to keep, but to be returned to me after examina
tion, the narrative, as I wrote it down some five years ago, after hearing him
[Mr. Wilmot] tell the story. To ensure correctness, I sent it to him then for
purpose of having him and Mrs. Wilmot examine it and make any needful
changes. See his marginal notes in pencil, also the acknowledgment that it
is correct, and his signature.—Very truly yours,
"W. B. H."
"The files of the Herald show that the City of Limerick left Liverpool
October 3rd, 1863, Queenstown October 5th, and arrived at New York early
on the morning of the 22nd of October, 1863.
"Herald, October 14th, 1863, says :—
" ' Steamer Africa from Queenstown on the 4th inst. put into St. John's,
N.F., yesterday afternoon, on her voyage to Boston by way of Halifax.
The Africa struck on the rocks near Cape Race at 10 o'clock last Monday
night (October 12fch) during a dense fog. She was put about before she
struck, but took ground fore, aft, and amidships. There was considerable sea
running, with a southerly wind at the time. The steamer's boats were got
ready, but not launched. The Africa floated off after an hour, and was
speedily cleared of water by her pumps. Captain Stone then headed her foi-
Halifax, but soon deemed it prudent to put into St. John's, Newfoundland.
Both cargo and vessel were badly damaged. When our last despatch was.
forwarded from St. John's, the Africa was making a large quantity of water.''
" Found no report of severe storm. " A. H.
"July, 1889."
In answer to inquiries Mr. Wilmot writes to Mr. Hodgson :—
"Bridgeport, February 25th, 1890.
"As to whether I and my wife have ever had any analogous experiences,
44 Mrs. H. Sulgwick.
will say for myself, Yes, dreams revealing subsequent events, but nothing of
such a. joint nature.1
" I only spoke of my dream and Mr. Tait's experience to my sister (who
was with me then, and is now), as I could not quite divest myself of the
thought that Mr. T. might have invented his part from witnessing something
unusual in me while asleep, therefore my questions to him when about to
disembark at N.Y.
"I do not think it likely that Mr. Tait mentioned to others on board
ship, or if he had, that it could now be ascertained.
' ' I did not mention these things to any but my sister till after reaching
home and learning what I did from my wife. That astonished me ; it almost
took my breath away.
" S. R. Wilmot."
Miss Wilmot writes :—
'' In regard to my brother's strange experience on our homeward voyage
in the Limerick—I remember Mr. Tait's asking me, one morning (when
assisting me to the breakfast table, for the cyclone was raging fearfully), if I
had been in last night to see my brother ; and my astonishment at the
question, as he shared the same state-room. At my ' No, why ? ' he said he
saw some woman, in white, who went up to my brother (who was too seasick
to leave his berth for several days). I soon went in to see [my brother], who told
me that Mr. Tait had wondered at my coming in to see him, and I think he
said he had dreamed of seeing his wife there, but in the imminent danger
that loomed over us, I did not fix my mind on their after conversations.
" I think my brother must have written to Mr. Tait the share my sister
had in the vision—shall I call it ? When visiting at the Taits' in Cleveland,
two or three years after, he spoke of the wonderful coincidence. It evidently
impressed him. If he were still living, I would refer you to him.
" Eliza E. Wilmot."
Mrs. Wilmot says :,—
" Bridgeport, Conn., February 27th, 1890.
"... In reply to the question, Did I ' notice any details about the
man I saw in the upper berth ? ' I cannot at this late day positively say that I
,did, but I distinctly remember that I felt much disturbed at his presence, as
ho leaned over, looking at us.
" I think that I told my mother the next morning about my dream ; and
I know that I had a very vivid sense all the day of having visited my husband :
the impression was so strong that I felt unusually happy and refreshed, to
1ny surprise.
' ' In regard to ' other analogous experiences, ' the following may seem out
of place, perhaps, but I will give it, although my husband had no part in it.
' ' In December, 1887 (I believe the 18th), I was awakened out of a sound
1 Mr. Hodgson called on Mr. Wilmot on December 10th, 1890, and learnt from
liim that one of these dreams, which occurred to him when a lad, was apparently of a
clairvoyant kind. He dreamt of a cow bearing a calf with peculiar marks of colour.
In his dream he saw that the cow had broken out of her stall, pulling the bars down,
and the calf was born in a pool of dirty water and was in danger of suffocation.
He went to the stall before breakfast, owing to his dream, and found details as he
had dreamt them.
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 45
sleep with a dreadful realisation that my daughter, who was on a journey to.
California, was in some terrible danger—everything seemed dark and frightful
and full of confusion.
*****
"It seemed more strange, because that very Sunday evening we were
rejoicing in the thought of her safe arrival at Los Angeles, expecting next
morning to have a telegram to that effect. None came till evening ; then
from El Paso, with the startling news there had been a collision, but they
were all right. I immediately thought of my experience of the night before,
and believed it was at the same time—calculating the difference in time—
about ten at night, when they came very near being thrown off a steep
embankment, engines smashed, &c, but my daughter preserved.
*****
"Mrs. S. R. Wilmot."
This is a very remarkable case, and merits careful examination. It
is somewhat remote—the account was not written apparently for more
than twenty years after the occurrence, and one of the percipients is
dead and cannot give a first-hand account of what he saw. We
must not assume that after so long a time the memory of the witnesses,
however good, will be exact, and that every detail can be absolutely
relied on. Still, after making all allowances, it is, I think, clear that
there was a remarkable correspondence between the experiences of three
persons. Mrs. Wilmot had—waking or sleeping—a vision of her
husband, in which she correctly perceived some part of his surroundings ;
Mr. Wilmot dreamt his wife's thoughts ; and Mr. Tait had a waking
hallucination which corresponded with the main features of Mr.
Wilmot's dream. It is difficult to say whether there was really any
difference in kind between Mr. and Mrs. Wilmot's experiences. Each
perceived the other in the situation in which the other supposed
himself or herself to be. But, in so doing, Mrs. Wilmot was made
aware supernormally of certain actual facts which would have been
cognisable by her senses had she been in her husband's cabin in the
body. She was, therefore, in some sense clairvoyant at the moment.
This case differs from those that precede it. In them the clairvoyant
person was apparently a passive recipient of the telepathic impulse
from the agent which led to the clairvoyant perception. But here,
Mrs. Wilmot seems, as it were, to have actively sought communication
with her husband. I should still hold with Mr. Gurney1 that this is
no reason for regarding the incident as other than telepathic, for there
1 In connection with this case the chapters in Phantasms of the Living on
Keciprocal Cases (Vol. II., chap, xvii., and Supplement, chap, viii.) should be read, as
should also Case 35 (Vol. I., p. 225), Caae 94 (Vol. I., p. 319), and one given in a foot
note Vol. I., p. 110. Several eases among these will be found to have much analogy
with the one before us. It is also worth turning to Case 341, in Vol. II., p. 227,
though this is not clearly reciprocal.
40 Mrs. H. Sidgivick.
is as little ground for supposing that Mrs. Wilmot could have perceived
psychically any cabin as there is for thinking that Mrs. Paquet could
have had a vision of any death scene. In other words, it is probable
that the presence of the husband and brother respectively were
essential conditions of the percipience, which, therefore, depended on
some unknown process of communication from mind to mind. The
fact that Mr. Wilmot at the same time dreamt of his wife seems to me,
if anything, to strengthen the telepathic hypothesis, because it shows
that there was actually a community of mental impressions.
But it may be said that it is more difficult thus to account for Mr.
Tait's seeing a figure at the same time as Mr. Wilmot, and that this at
least tends to show that Mrs. Wilmot was actually there in some sense
other than a purely mental one. The question here raised is the
difficult one of the significance of Collective psychical experiences, for a
full discussion of which I must refer my readers to Phantasms of the
Living1 ; for though it may no doubt prove ultimately to be of great
theoretic importance in connection with clairvoyance, it enters too little
into the evidence for this, so far as it has yet been collected, to require
more than a brief notice here. Briefly, then, besides the possibility of a
direct telepathic communication between the primary agent and both
percipients, there are two hypotheses to account for collective hallucina
tions,—assuming of course that they are not due to suggestion by word
or gesture. One is that there is some kind of objective presence, some
centre of " phantasmogenetic efficacy," 2 located in space and within
range of the operation of the percipient's senses. The other is that
the primary percipient, B, whether his own impression is due to tele
pathy or is purely subjective, becomes an agent as regards the secondary
percipient C, who receives his impression by thought-transference from
or through B.
It is this second view which I agree with Mr. Gurney in thinking
the most probable, and I may mention, as an example of cases which it
is very difficult to explain on any other hypothesis, an experiment of
1 See chapter on Collective cases, Vol. II., especially section 7, p. 2G4, and Mr.
Myers's note on " A Suggested Method of Psychical Interaction,"in the same volume.
2 Phantasms, Vol. II., p. 289. The advocates of this hypothesis in any cruder or
more materialistic form than that adopted by Mr. Myers in the passages referred to,
would probably hardly apply it in the present case, since the phantasm was not seen
by both men looking at the same spot with open eyes, but Mr. Wilmot's dream was
Mr. Tait's hallucination. This particular type of collective experience seems, how
ever, to be comparatively rare. An instance is given in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. V.,
p. 438, and another—rather more doubtful—in Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II.,
p. 215, No. 332 (also quoted in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. III., p. 87). We have also a
second-hand case (B.L. 91) sent by the Rev. A. Starkey, who heard from Mrs. Ogden,
a nurse—now dead—that when sleeping beside her f-ick child, she dreamt that her
deceased husband stood at the foot of the bed, and that the child afterwards stated
that he had seen his father there.
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 47
"Wesermann, a gentleman who interested himself in thought-trans
ference in the beginning of the century. By concentrated effort of
thought, he had more than once imposed dreams on distant friends, and
he determined to make Lieutenant N. dream that a certain lady, who
had been dead for five years, came to him and incited him to good works.
He supposed that Lieutenant N\ was at home and asleep at the time
selected, but, as it happened, he was staying in a different town with a
friend, Lieutenant S., who was a stranger to Wesermann, and both
were wide awake and talking. This did not interfere with the success
of Wesermann's experiment, however, for both gentlemen saw a figure
resembling the lady in question enter the room noiselessly by a door
that usually creaked, make gestures of greeting and go out again.1 It
will hardly, I think, be contended that Wesermann called up the dead
lady, or that he himself appeared in her form, or that Lieutenant
8. would have seen her if Lieutenant N. had not been there, so that
there seems to be no reasonable alternative except that of a telepathic
action of Wesermann's mind on Lieutenant "N., communicated in some
way through him to Lieutenant S.
The five cases of distinctly telepathic clairvoyance above given are,
I think, fairly representative, though they have been selected on the
simple principle of taking, so far as I know, all the experiences of this
type of which accounts have reached us since the publication of Phan
tasms of the Living and of the Proceedings of the American Societyfor
Psychical Research, and thus have been included in neither ; and which
also seem to reach a sufficiently high evidential standard.2
Before proceeding further, I will give a case sent by Mrs. Alfred
Wedgwood which it is difficult either to estimate or to classify. The
dream may have been due to latent memory, Mrs. Wedgwood having
more previous knowledge of the house than she remembered. It may
have been telepathic, depending on the waking or sleeping thoughts of
the cousin, occupied with the party and her intended guests. Or again,
it may have been a case of clairvoyance of a more independent kind.
February, 1884.
(M. 304.) "I spent the Christmas holidays with my father-in-law in
1 Wesermann wrot9 three accounts of this experiment. The fullest is in a book by
him called Dcr Magnctismus und die allgemeine Wcltsprachc, published in 1822. This
Account was not known to the writers of Phantasms of the Living when the account
there given (Vol. I., p. 101) was published. An account giving the facts as gathered
from Wesermann's three descriptions was printed in the Journal of the S.P.R.
(printed for private circulation among Members and Associates only), March, 1890.
2 There are two cases in the Proceedings of the American S.P.R., p. 397, No. 23, and
p. 404, No. 51. No. 51 includes two more or less clairvoyant experiences, the second
of which (b) belongs rather to the class of cases we have to discuss next than tothe
class with which we have just been dealing. Other instances of telepathic clairvoyance
will be found in Phantasms of theLiving, besides those to which I have already referred.
48 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
Queen Anne-street, and in the beginning of January I had a remarkably
vivid dream, which I told to him next morning at breakfast.
" I dreamt I went to a strange house, standing at the corner of a street.
When I reached the top of the stairs I noticed a window opposite with a
little coloured glass, short muslin blinds running on a brass rod. The top of
the ceiling had a window veiled by gathered muslin. There were two small
shrubs on a little table. The drawing-room had a bow window, with the
same blinds ; the library had a polished floor, with the same blinds.
" As I was going to a child's party at a cousin's, whose house I had never
seen, I told my father-in-law I thought that that would prove to be the
house.
"On January 10th I went with my little boy to the party, and, by mis
take, gave the driver a wrong number. When he stopped at No. 20, I had
misgivings about the house, and remarked to the cabman that it was not a
corner house. The servant could not tell me where Mrs. H. lived, and had
not a blue-book. Then I thought of my dream, and as a last resource I
walked down the street looking up for the peculiar blinds I had observed in
my dream. These I met with at No. 50, a corner house, and knocking at
the door, was relieved to find that it was the house of which I was in search.
"On going upstairs the room and windows corresponded exactly with
what I had seen in my dream, and the same little shrubs in their pots were
standing on the landing. The window in which I had seen the coloured glass
was hidden by the blind being drawn down, but I learnt, on inquiry, that it
was really there.
"Margaret R. Wedgwood."
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood writes :—
" 31, Queen Anne-street, February 7th, 1884.
'' My daughter-in-law told me her dream the morning after it occurred,
and described her recognition of the house when first I saw her afterwards.
I have ascertained that she did make the inquiries at Mrs. H. 's house of
which she speaks, and that the window has an edging of coloured glass.
"H. Wedgwood."
Asked whether she recognises, when she wakes from a dream, that it is
one which will turn out to correspond with reality, Mrs. Wedgwood says that
she does : that though these dreams are not more vivid than others which
she has, she has a "presentiment" which haunts her about the ones which
turn out true.
I pass on now to cases where the telepathy, if it exists, is, as a rule,
more obscure—where, though the knowledge obtained by the clairvoyant
was certainly possessed at the time by other persons, it is less clear that
its possession by them was in any way a condition of its being obtained
by the clairvoyant. For in these cases—which are generally more or
less experimental—we find that not only is it the percipient who is in
the abnormal psychical state (generally hypnotised), and with whom
the psychical activity which produced the clairvoyance apparently
originates, but the supposed agent is often entirely normal, passing;
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance.
through no crisis or excitement of any kind, unconscious of any-
psychical interaction between himself and the percipient and even
unaware of the percipient's existence. It will, nevertheless, be noticed
that in some instances the kind of percipience suggests mind-reading
rather than any more direct method of acquiring the knowledge.
The first of these cases belongs to the period of mesmeric activity
of forty years ago, but was fortunately recorded at the time, and before
the truth of the clairvoyant's statement was known. The narrator, Mr.
William Boyd, F.R.S.E., is a 'lawyer residing at Peterhead, in
Aberdeenshire.
(M. 18.) Clairvoyance Forty Years Ago.
" The particulars I am to relate attracted much public attention at the
time when they occurred, and they have still a recognised place in the
authentic local history of Peterhead. I nevertheless accede to a suggestion
which has been made to me, that I should place them on record in these
Proceedings, while it is possible to adduce, if required, the evidence of
persons still living in support of them.
'' I premise by saying that forty years ago a fleet of eleven vessels, includ
ing two named respectively the Hamilton Ross and Eclipse, sailed yearly, in
early spring, from the Port of Peterhead for the prosecution of the seal and
whale fisheries in the Arctic seas. These vessels carried each, on an average,
fifty men ; their annual voyage generally lasted from three to six months, and
from the time when they sailed until their return, communication between
them and this country was absolutely impossible.
"In the year 1850, what was then familiarly known as mesmerism received
a good deal of attention at Peterhead, and, with others of my acquaintance,
I was interested in it. At that time I acted as a local correspondent of the
Aberdeen Journal newspaper, and I contributed to it the following statement,
which was published in that paper on May 8th, 1850 :—
"'Whether the science of mesmerism is real or fanciful we do not
pretend to be able to decide, but we venture to narrate a few facts
which have come under our observation, and which are no less curious
than capable of being most amply authenticated. On the 23rd of last month
(April) a lad was thrown into the mesmeric state here, and, as may
naturally be supposed, the first questions put to him by the operator
related to the vessels engaged at the seal fishery. The patient having
been in imagination transported to the icy regions, he had no difficulty
in satisfying the curiosity of his querists. He stated in answer that the
first ship which would arrive here this season would be the Hamilton
Ross, and that he at that moment saw the captain and surgeon of the vessel
engaged in dressing the hand of the second mate, Cardno, who, he said, had
accidentally lost part of some of his fingers.
' ' ' Next evening the experiment was repeated, and the lad, when
asked as to the success of the other vessels, and in particular of the
Eclipse, said that Captain Burnett, of the Hamilton Ross, would, on his.
arrival, inform them of that, as he was then engaged in conversation with
the captain of the Eclipse, who he said was giving him news. This state-
E
50 Mrs. H. Sidgwiek.
ment, as might have been expected, did not gain the confidence of even the
most credulous advocates of the truth of the science, and, having given rise
to a little amusement and speculation at the time, was soon forgotten. On
May 3rd, however, the first whaler of the season arrived, and, agree
ably to the statement of the clairvoyant, proved to be the Hamilton Ross.
The ship having been brought into the bay, a boat came on shore with
Captain Burnett (the master), and, as usual, all were eager to hear the news.
As the boat neared the quay, the appearance of a man sitting in the stern
besides the captain was not very easily accounted for. Soon, however, the
well-known features of Cardno, the second mate, were recognised, and on its
being discovered that one of his arms was in a sling a general cry arose from
the assembled crowd to the effect that the statement which had been made
respecting him had proved correct, and it turns out that he had actually
accidentally shot away portions of some of his fingers when at the fishing.
To these remarkable coincidences one more remains to be added. Captain
Burnett left the ice on April 24th, and the night- before leaving he
met with Captain Gray, of the Eclipse, from whom he received the most of
the information which he has brought regarding the other ships. He was
consequently engaged on the evening of April 23rd, exactly as the clairvoyant
had described him to be. We have thus, it will be observed, confined
ourselves to a bare recital of the facts of this (it must be allowed) extra
ordinary case, and have been at pains to advance nothing but what can be
fully authenticated, and as we have before confessed ourselves unable to
fathom the mysteries of the science, we forbear to offer any comment upon
them. '
"I call attention to what is obviously a slight error in the foregoing
statement, in the dates when the two seances described are reported to have
taken place. It is said by me that Captain Burnett was found to have been
engaged on the evening of April 23rd, exactly as the clairvoyant had
described him to be, which shows that I should have stated that the first
.seance occurred on April 22nd, and the second on April 23rd, and not on
April 23rd and 24th, as might be inferred from the former part of my state
ment, although the existence of the error is made apparent towards the con
clusion of it, as well as by the other evidence to which I shall refer.
. " The particulars I related were mainly within my own knowledge, for I
had heard of the clairvoyant's statements at least several days before the
arrival of the Hamilton Ross, and, along with hundreds of others, I witnessed
her arrival, and saw the boat land the wounded man. I also heard, with
feelings which I shall never forget, the murmur of surprise which passed
throughout the assembled crowd when it was discovered that, in the words
which were freely used around me, ' the mesmerism had come true. '
"Mr. W. L. Taylor, bookseller, Peterhead, who then acted as local
,correspondent for the Aberdeen Herald newspaper, wrote on the day of
the arrival of the Hamilton Ross a paragraph to a similar effect as that
written by me for the Aberdeen Journal, which appeared in the Herald, of
May 11th, 1850, with the addition of the following incredulous remark by
the editor : ' The coincidence would have appeared more curious had the
fact been stated before the arrival of the vessel. ' Mr. Taylor had, however,
before the arrival of the Hamilton Ross, received from Mr. Wm. Reid, shoe
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. $1
maker in Peterhead, who operated in throwing the lad into the mesmeric
condition, a written statement of what had taken place at the seances, for the
purpose of being forwarded for publication in the Herald, but he was dis
suaded by the advice of a friend from sending it to the editor at the time
when it was handed to him in case it might prove to be an imposture. In
consequence, however, of the editor's incredulous remark before mentioned,
Mr. Taylor, on seeing it, at once forwarded the original manuscript for
publication, and it appeared in the Aberdeen Herald of May 18th, 1850. The
following are extracts from Mr. Reid's statement :—
" ' On the evening of April 22nd I put John Park, tailor, aged 22, into a.
state of clairvoyance, in presence of twelve respectable inhabitants of this
town. ' (Here follows a description of certain statements regarding the fate of
Franklin's expedition and the ships Erebus and Terror, which the light of
information subsequently received proved to have been inaccurate.) 'He
{the clairvoyant) then visited Old Greenland, as was desired, and having
gone on board the Hamilton Soss, a whale-ship belonging to this port, saw
David Cardno, second mate, getting his hand bandaged up by the doctor in
the cabin, having got it injured while sealing. He was then told by the
captain that they had upwards of 100 tons of oil. I again, on the evening of
the 23rd, put him into a clairvoyant state.' (Here follow some further
particulars regarding Sir John Franklin's expedition, which also are proved
to have been inaccurate.) ' I again directed him to Old Greenland, and he
again visited the Hamilton Ross, and found Captain Gray, of the Eclipse,
conversing with the captain about the seal fishing being up.
(Signed) 'William Reid.'
" Both Captain Burnett, of the Hamilton Ross, and Captain Gray, of the
Eclipse, died many years ago, and it is believed that their logs and ships'
papers, which might have thrown some light on the concluding portion of
Mr. Reid's statement, have been lost or dispersed. But Mr. Taylor's article
in the Aberdeen Herald, already referred to, written as he says on Captain
Burnett's personal assurance of its accuracy, contained the following para
graph : ' It only remains to bo added that the mate Cardno's hand was
undoubtedly hurt, and that on the date mentioned Captain Gray, of the
Eclipse, was on board the Hamilton Ross.' I never heard of this assertion
having been contradicted, but Captain Gray's son, who is still alive, and was
then serving on board the Eclipse, testifies that a meeting between his father
and Captain Burnett actually did take place, just before the departure of the
latter from Greenland, although he says it was on board the Hamilton Ross
and not the Eclipse as was stilted. And the possible and probable date of the
meeting may be deduced from the following facts. The Hamilton Ross,
-which was a sailing vessel, arrived on May 3rd, and the ordinary duration of
the voyage of such a vessel from Greenland is from eight to ten days. It
follows, therefore, that April 23rd must have been about the date of the com
mencement of her return voyage, when the two masters could have conversed
as stated by the clairvoyant about the seal fishing being up.
"One more reference to Mr. Reid's narrative. The clairvoyant stated
on the occasion of the first seance that he was told the Hamilton Ross had
' upwards of 109 tons of oil. ' The success of Captain Burnett in that
vessel in the previous vear, when he had onlv about 1U tons, was not
E 2
52 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
likely to suggest, or lead to the expectation, that he would be so fortunate
as to secure upwards of 100 tons of oil in 1850, yet the quantity he actually
brought home that year was 159 tons.
" Mr. Taylor and Mr. Reid are both alive. They have seen this state
ment and approve of it in every respect.
" It has been suggested to me that I should add the following facts, of
which I have only recently heard, in case it should be supposed that they, or
any of them, have a bearing on the case.
' ' Some years prior to the occurrence of the events I have recorded, David
Cardno, before he joined the Hamilton Ross, and while serving in another
vessel, met with an accident at Greenland, while using a winch, whereby
he lost the point of one of his fingers. Park was acquainted with Cardno,
and may thus have known of his former accident. Both parties are now
dead. Mr. Reid, the operator, was intimately acquainted with Cardno, but
he cannot remember whether he was aware, when he operated on Park, of
Cardno's former accident, or, indeed, whether he ever heard of it, until a
few days ago, when he was told of it by me.
'' The figures I gave at the outset will enable anyone who may wish to
do so to calculate the odds against naming successfully the ship, the man,
and the nature of the accident, to which the statement by the clairvoyant
related, if the circumstances narrated are to be referred to the operation of
that which is termed chance.
"William Boyd, F.R.S.E.
"October, 1890."
In a later communication Mr. Boyd adds :—
" On receipt of your letter, I had pleasure in obtaining (which I did from
Mr. Reid) the information necessary to enable me to reply to your questions,
and I shall answer them in their order.
(1) "The only occasions on which Park was hypnotised were the two
mentioned in my narrative as having happened on two successive days. In
Mr. Reid's words—'Park was so frightened by the "astounding" result.*
which followed, that he would never try it again. ' On both occasions he
readily passed into the clairvoyant state, the operation having taken on each
occasion 6 to 7 minutes.
(2) "Mr. Reid knew Captain Burnett only by sight, and never spoke to
him, either before or after the occurrences narrated. He is sure that Park
also knew him only by sight. Mr. Reid cannot recollect having known any
of the crew of the Hamilton Ross besides Cardno, with the exception of one
man named John McNaughton. . . . Park was also acquainted with
McNaughton, but Mr. Reid does not know whether he was acquainted with
any others of the crew of the Hamilton Ross. "
It is, I think, difficult to suppose that either chance coincidence or
shrewd guessing can account for the amount of correspondence between
vision and fact in this case, even assuming that Cardno's previous acci
dent may have had something to do with suggesting an injury to his
hand. There is, however, a good deal to be said in favour of a telepathic
explanation, as against independent clairvoyance, although it involves
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 53
an extension of our conception of telepathy. It is true that the
,"agents," if we may regard Cardno and Captain Burnett as such, were
sought out by the percipient, and that we have no reason to think that
they were at all aware of any psychical interaction, or had their
thoughts in any way directed towards the percipient. Still Cardno,
&t any rate, was known both to clairvoyant and hypnotiser, and we are
perhaps justified in assuming that such acquaintance was an important,
if not an essential, condition to success with this particular percipient,
because he failed in giving correct information about Sir John Franklin's
,expedition, where no similar link was possible. Again, it will be ob
served that Park conceived himself as holding a conversation with the
captain—or at least as learning from him orally—about the amount of
,oil secured. This suggests that he learnt the facts telepathically rather
than by any method independent of other human minds.
It is worth noting that Park did not simply fail to give information
,about Sir John Franklin's expedition ; he gave false information. Ex
perience seems to show that clairvoyants are often—generally perhaps
—unable to distinguish true impressions from false ones. The scenes
they seem to themselves to visit may be the work of their own imagina
tion, or of the verbal or mental suggestion of others, or may be
veridical, as in the cases we are discussing, without the clairvoyant
perceiving any difference.
(M. 650.) I will take next accounts of a clairvoyant whom we will
,call "Jane," and who was the wife of a pitman in the county of
Durham. Mr. F. W. H. Myers, who collected the evidence, writes :—
" She has never received any fee, or made any exhibition of her powers.
On the contrary, she has most carefully concealed her faculty from all her
neighbours and relations, except her husband and sister, for fear of being
,taken for a witch. The witnesses of her clairvoyance have consequently
been few, consisting, mainly, of a family in whose service one or two of her
relations had been. We have the testimony of three members of this family,
viz., the Rev. C. Green and his two sisters, who are now Mrs. Fraser and
Mrs. Myers (wife of the Rev. T. Myers, of Twinstead Rectory, Sudbury, a
cousin of my own), who has kindly rendered active help in the collection of
,evidence. To these are added some notes taken by their friend Mrs. Russell.
We have also the contemporaneous notes of a Dr. F., which form the main
piece of evidence still subsisting ; though they do not appear to have been
contemporaneous in the sense of being made before the truth of Jane's
statements was verified. Singularly enough, it appears that none of these
witnesses, with the exception of Dr. F., at all realised the rarity of Jane's
faculty, and hardly any notes were made at the time.
" She was mesmerised at intervals through a long period of years from
1845 onwards, for the sake of her health, 1 and when in the mesmeric state,
1 The treatment was begun by the arrangement of her medical attendant with a
view to enabling her to sleep at night. (See Mrs. Fraser's account, Appendix, p. 89.)
5t Mrs. H. Sidgtv'uk.
she almost always began to talk in a childish language, and to ask to 'travel,"
that is, to be guided by suggestion to places which she should clairvoyantly
visit. This was done accordingly, partly to oblige her, and partly as an.
amusement, and whenever her reports of her travels could be verified we are
told that they were found to be correct. But as Jane in her normal state
shrank from all mention of these clairvoyant wanderings, very little was said
about them to anyone outside the family already mentioned. There was thus
an entire absence of the motives which may often prompt to the simulation
of clairvoyance ; and although the fragmentariness of these records is very
unsatisfactory, it may be remarked, on the other hand, that it would be
difficult to imagine a case in which the faculty was less desired by its.
possessor, or less wondered at by its observers. Even Dr. F.'s notes were
only preserved through the accident of their having been copied at the time
by Mrs. Hargreaves (nee Procter) of Southport " [who was doubtless specially
interested in them on account of what Jane said about Procter's Mill at
Willington, a well-known haunted house in which Mrs. Hargreaves had lived
(See Appendix.)].
When Mr. Myers collected the evidence in 1884, Jane was still living,
but was seriously ill, and so anxious that her power should not be suspected
by her neighbours that it was impossible to make further trial of it.
In the body of this paper I shall give only an account of Jane by
Mrs. T. Myers, which, though written from recollection after man)"
years, is interesting as giving a general idea of what went on, and a
portion of Dr. F.'s notes. As, however, the reader should have access,
to all the evidence we have about this clairvoyant, the remainder will
be placed in the Appendix. It consists of (1) Dr. F.'s notes relating to
occasions when almost all that the percipient is recorded to have said*
either might have been read from the minds of those present or was
unverifiable ; (2) an account by Mrs. Fraser, Mrs. T. Myers' sister, of
her own recollections ; (3) an incident recalled by their brother, the
Rev. C. Green; (4) another fragment by Mrs. T. Myers ; (5) a corrobora
tive letter from Jane's sister ; and (6) contemporaneous notes of a more
recent sitting taken by Mrs. Russell, a friend of Mrs. Fraser's, which,
however, can hardly be said to record anything beyond the range of
possible thought-transference from herself.
Mrs. Thomas Myers' Recollections of Jane.
"Twinstead Rectory, Sudbury, Suffolk. [1884.]
" This clairvoyante has been known by me since I was a child. I was-,
taken to see her by my sister and remember her first in a bed in the upper
room of a small house in Durham. She was a remarkably refined woman
for her rank in life, sweet and gentle looking, with delicately cut features
and wavy dark hair. She was very religious and conscientious, and even
when mesmerised and under the influence of others could never be induced
to read letters or pry into things which she knew the person visited would
wish to keep secret. On one occasion I remember taking her in the sleep,
to see a young lady ; she said, ' She is writing to her lover.' ' AVhat is she
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 55
saying to him?' Indignant answer : ' We will not look ; would we like any
one to look over we's shoulder when we writes love letters 1 ' I was early
taught to give her the sleep, so to me there has never been anything astonish
ing in clairvoyance or thought-reading, therefore I never took notes of what
was a daily occurrence. This is to be regretted, as so much interesting
matter is forgotten. When under the influence of the sleep she is quite dis
tinct from herself and calls her body ' we's girl,' and does not like her, com
plaining that she troubles her and gives her pains in her side or face, nay,
anywhere and everywhere, for all through her life she has been and still is a
great sufferer. Out of the ' sleep ' she never murmurs against her lot, but
has a resigned spirit to God's wilr.
'' In the sleep she is on an equality with the operator, and also feels
through that person ; her own body possesses no sense of feeling. She dis
likes the touch of silk very much and hates cats in the room. Her dislike
to black is great, and black people she cannot endure, and she will not
recognise them as ' men and brothers, ' not even when appealed to to regard
them in a Christian point of view. ' We do not like them, we will not look
at them, ' and she shudders with disgust if, when taken to India or Africa,
she gets into a crowd or comes into contact with them ; for in the spirit she
stillfeels in a body, and expects people to see her and resents being jostled
in a crowd, or nearly run over by carriages and horses. Once, when taking
her to see a friend, she called out, ' What a rude man, he has nearly run over
we with his prancing horses. ' ' Where are you V 'In the drive going up
to his house.' 'But he cannot see you.' ' He ought to see we ; he might
have broken we's leg,' and immediately added, ' But he could mend it if he
had, he is a doctor ; he does not give nasty medicines, but little pills and
tinctures.' She had never out of the sleep known this gentleman or any
thing about Homoeopathy, and she was at this time in the'North of England;
he was in Clifton. I asked her his name ; she spelt on the doorplate of
his private house, ' Williams,' quite correctly, and described him and his
house and family most correctly.
" She intensely dislikes death and will not willingly enter where anyone
is dying or is dead. This was shown very strongly once when taken to see
Dr. Livingstone—she found him in a tent, but would pay little attention to
him because a man lay dying in the corner. I rebuked her for her horror of
death, but she would not be lectured into a proper frame of mind, and said,
very angrily, ' We do not like dying people. Why has that man come here
to die ? he had better have stayed at home.' I said, ' Well, never mind him,
look at Dr. Livingstone. ' ' He is ill and troubled—but look at that man—
there—he is dead. Give we we's coffee ' ! I have never heard of anyone
dying in that year (1871) while with Dr. Livingstone, but if anyone reading
this has, it will be interesting to verify her statement. He was a white
man.
" Whenever Jane wishes to come out of her sleep, she says, 'Give We
we's coffee.' When first given the sleep, she had a cup of coffee on waking,
but never afterwards. The habit, however, continues until this day, and the
imaginary cup of coffee is taken—let us hope with benefit. A young niece of
mine mesmerised her, at her own request, when they were alone together,
and not knowing how to do it or how to awaken her, my niece was nervous,
56 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
and did not understand the request for waking. So Jane kept entreating,
' Give we we's coffee ; give we we's coffee.' At last she thought she would
ask Jane to tell her how to wake her, which she did. We rather wondered
at this, as in the sleep she is another person, and has no knowledge of what
she says or sees.
"She is not always to be depended upon in the matter of time. Jane
counts by 'suns, ' not days. We have often found her perfectly correct in time,
as in the cases of the visit to Mrs. Fraser [Mrs. Myers' sister, who had often
mesmerised Jane], when she told of my sister hitting her nose against a
screen, and also of the lady who took tea for her lunch in London, when
going into the City on business, and the gentleman who listened to the old
white-haired man singing in the streets of Durham.
"Jane frequently turns lazy in the sleep, and must not then be trusted
to find out anything, as she will read the mind of the mesmeriser on the sub
ject. This can be in a great measure prevented, but not always, by the
operator turning his or her thoughts into another line. But from this cause
Jane has often proved a failure. She is also very much influenced by the
presence of believers or unbelievers. She does not see or hear anyone who
is present unless the mesmeriser turns and looks at the person. In a very
uncomfortable manner for polite operators, she reads the mind and thoughts
of those she is called to look at, and inquires first, ' Is he one of we's ? ' and
then reviews the heart in a religious point of view. One day, when looking
at a man (fortunately not in the room), she said, ' We do not like him, his
heart is as black as his hat ! '
"She was once taken in the year 1845 to visit my cousins. She said the
eldest had measles, and then noticed a cradle with a baby in it, rocking
rapidly without anyone near it. This was thought very strange by the
operator, but on w'riting to tell the friends of the visit they said she was quite
correct, as the baby used to rock himself with his elbows. In 1871 I took
her [mentally] to a cousin's house in Clifton, sister of the 'Baby Willie,' and
as she went into the house she read 'Salve' on the tiles before the glass
door ; then entering the hall she exclaimed, ' Here is a gentleman. It is
'' Baby Willie ! " "Baby Willie" grown a big man. ' She had never seen him
since she saw him in that cradle, and her joy was great to see him again. I
was not aware he was in Clifton at that time, but he had gone for a few
days to see his sister. I found this out on writing to tell what she had said.
She then entered the dining-room and recognised ' Baby Willie's ' sister,
Mrs. J. D. Wills, and said, ' Miss Lillie is a matron now, so altered. May
we go upstairs and see her children ? ' I said, ' Yes. ' So up she went and
entered the nursery. She looked round and then called out, ' Another Baby
Willie ! ' and was so pleased with it, then described the other children and
nurses, and gave them their names correctly. The under-nurse was highly
commended. The ' Baby Willie ' of the cradle was the W. Temple Bourne
whose ring she got returned to him (found in the old coat).
"Jane was taken by my sister, Miss Green, I being present, and a Miss
A. A., a friend, to see her [Miss A. A.'s] great aunt, who was ill, but
refused to let a doctor examine her. Miss A. A.'s mother had gone to nurse
-her at a town far away from where we were, and Jane knew nothing of any
of the parties nor did we. She entered the house and immediately
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 57
exclaimed, ' Oh, for shame ! Oh, for shame ! Two bottles and a cup ! Look
in the closet : two bottles and a cup ! ! She fell downstairs and has broken
her leg : she does not wish it known.' Miss A. at once wrote to her mother,
who looked in the cupboard and found two empty bottles and a cup ' The
doctor examined the leg, it was broken. No previous suspicion pointed to
this sad discovery."
Dr. F.'s Notes.
The following notes were taken by Dr. F. in the summer of 1863. He
does not wish his name to be published, being unwilling to be troubled with
correspondence on the subject ; but he vouches for the complete freedom
from bias with which he made the following observations.
Experiment I.
"I was directed to sit down in front of the clairvoyante. Whilst taking
each thumb and finger in my opposite hand, I fixed my eyes steadfastly upon
her. In about two minutes her head began to droop ; when my two hands
were above her head she raised it gradually up to the erect position. She
made some remark, and grasping her hands again, I commenced the experi
ment by saying, ' We are beside some railings, with trees in them, and
' opposite is a house, which I wish you to enter.' I must here premise
that I had no expectation of her power, and intending to puzzle her at once,
I thus refrained from giving her any description that might afford her the
least hint where I wished her to go, in case it was an imposition. She
immediately replied, ' Which door shall we enter ? ' The house I had selected
is that inhabited by Mr. Stephens, Dockwray-square, from whom, I made no
doubt, I could afterwards obtain satisfactory information respecting the truth
or untruth of the description that might be given. As his house alone in the
whole square has two doors upon the same place, I was surprised at the
answer, and remarked, ' We will go into the lower door.' ' Shall we go along
the passage then, ' she replied, ' and into this room 1 Who is this lady sitting
there ? ' I asked whether she was young or old. ' Not very young, and not
very old,' she returned ; ' but she is sitting there, and she is a mamma. '
" I requested her next to proceed further along the passage, when she
immediately said, ' What a smell ! what a smell ! This is a medicine house. '
I told her to tell me what she saw. She replied that there were many bottles
upon the shelves, a book on the table, a young man with a knife, taking
down bottles and mixing medicines, and a head in the room. I asked what
the head was like, when she answered by asserting that it was not a ' live
head, ' and had no brains in it. I at the time supposed that she meant a
phrenological bust, but have been since informed by Mr. Stephens that
a skull was actually at that time upon the table of his surgery. I
inquired if anyone else was in the room, when she described a man with a
shaggy head of hair, whose name she spelt as Wilson. I have been unable
to learn whether there was such a person there at the time, but one called
Wilkinson is remembered to have been present.
' ' Thinking that she had guessed that this was my own house, and thus
imagined the rest, I determined to detect her, by leading her to my own
residence. I therefore said : ' We will leave this place, pass round the rails,
and opposite us is a house.' She directly replied : ' Is it the clean house 2 *
58 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
This remark was probably elicited by the house having been painted a day
or two previously. Telling her that she was quite correct, I requested her
to proceed. I said : ' Is there a brass plate on the door 1 ' She answered
' Yes, ' and upon my desiring her to read the name upon it, she spelt the
letters [of my name]. She asked, 'May we go in? ' and upon receiving per
mission, seemed to enter a drawing-room, when she exclaimed, ' We like
this room, don't we? and here is our mother sitting upon a sofa. ' I inquired
what her occupation was, when she described her as an old lady reading a
book, with spectacles on, and having previously placed some stockings in a
drawer in another room. I requested her to tell me the name of the book,
but she stated that she could not do so, on account of the print being so small,
and that the lady had laid down the book and pushed up her spectacles. I
asked her what she saw in a certain part of the room where I knew a very
curious, old-fashioned cabinet was placed, but could get no satisfactory reply.
Her mind, by constant cross-questioning, seemed to be thrown off, and she
commenced talking about some ladies' work, which, I was afterwards
informed, she had formerly described as belonging to another room when in
her mesmeric state.
" Although considerably puzzled to account for the accuracy with which
she had followed me, I was by no means convinced that she possessed the
power of clairvoyance, but determined to give the subject a further examina
tion. It was certainly curious that she should have so easily lit upon the
house of Mr. Stephens, and described what was going on in it, but I imagined
that this might have arisen from the association in her mind of my profession
with the mixing of drugs, but it was still more strange that if it was an
imposture she should have guessed the next place to be my own house, and
should be able to describe so very accurately what was going on.
" I should mention that upon my return home I found my mother still
sitting in the room and in the place in which she had been described, and
upon my asking what had been her employment she stated that she had been
reading ' ,' but the print was so small that about the time I was con
ducting the experiment she laid it down from inability to continue her
reading. She had placed the stockings in a drawer in the morning."
It may, perhaps, be thought that the facts described at this sitting,
so far as they were unknown to Dr. F., were not sufficiently unusual to
be beyond guesswork, but, if so, the same objection certainly cannot be
made to Dr. F.'s next experiment.
Experiment II.
' ' Before commencing the sitting, I fixed to take her to a house, without
communicating my intentions to any of the parties present. In the morning
of the day I stated to a patient of my own, Mr. Eglinton, at present resid
ing in the village of Tynemouth, that I intended to visit him. He stated
that he would be present between 8 and 10 p.m. in a particular room, so that
there might be no difficulty in finding him. He was just recovering from a
very severe illness, and was so weak that he could scarcely walk. He was
exceedingly thin from the effects of his complaint.
"After the usual state had been obtained, I said, 'We are standing
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 59
heside a railway station, now we pass along a road, and in front of us see a
house with a laburnum tree in front of it.' She directly replied, 'Is it the
red house with a brass knocker 1 ' I said, 'No, it has an iron knocker.' I
have since looked, however, and find that the door has an old-fashioned
brass handle in the shape of a knocker. She then asked, ' Shall we go up the
steps ? Shall we go along this passage, and up these stairs ? Is this a window
on the stair head?' I said, ' You are quite right, and now I want you to
look into the room upon the left hand side.' She replied, 'Oh, yes, in the
bedroom. There is no one in this room ; there is a bed in it, but there is.
no person in it.' I was not aware that a bedroom was in the place I
mentioned, but upon inquiry next day I found she was correct. I told her
.she must look into.the next room, and she would see a sofa. She answered,
' But there is here a little gallery. Now I am in the room, and see a lady
with black hair lying upon the sofa. ' I attempted to puzzle her about the
colour of her hair, and feeling sure it was Mr. Eglinton who was lying;
there, I sharply cross-questioned her, but still she persisted in her story.
The questioning, however, seemed to distract her mind, and she commenced
talking about a lady at Whickham, until I at last recalled her to the room at
Tynemouth, by asking whether there was not a gentleman in the room.
' No,' she said ; ' we can see no gentleman there. '
'.' After a little she described the door opening, and asked, with a tone of
great surprise, ' Is that a gentleman ? ' I replied, ' Yes ; is he thin or
fat ? ' ' Very fat, ' she answered ; ' but has he a cork leg ? ' I assured her
that he had no cork leg, and tried to puzzle her again about him. She,
however, assured me that he was very fat and had a great corporation, and
asked me whether I did not think such a fat man must eat and drink a great
deal to get such a corporation as that. She also described him as sitting by,
the table with papers beside him, and a glass of brandy and water. ' Is it
not wine ?' I asked. ' No, she said, ' it's brandy.' ' Is it not whisky or
rum ? ' ' No, it is brandy, ' was the answer ; ' and now, ' she continued,
' the lady is going to get her supper, but the fat gentleman does not take
anj-.' I requested her to tell me the colour of his hair, but she only .
answered that the lady's hair was dark. I then inquired if he had any brains
in his head, but she seemed altogether puzzled about him, and said she
could not see any. I then asked her if she could see his name upon any of
the letters lying about. She replied, ' Yes ' ; and upon my saying that the
name began with E, she spelt each letter of the name ' Eglinton.'
'' I was so convinced that I had at last detected her in a complete mistake
that I arose, and declined proceeding further in the matter, stating that,
although her description of the house and the name of the person were
correct, in everything connected with the gentleman she had guessed the
opposite from the truth.
" On the following morning Mr. E. asked me the result of the experiment,
and after having related it to him, he gave me the following account :—He
had found himself unable to sit up to so late an hour, but wishful fairly to
test the powers of the clairvoyante, he had ordered his clothes to be stuffed
into the form of a figure, and to make the contrast more striking to his
natural appearance, had an extra pillow pushed into the clothes so as to form
a 'corporation.' This figure had been placed near the table, in a sitting
CO Mrs. H. Sidgioick,
position, and a glass of brandy and water and the newspapers placed beside
it. The name, he further added, was spelt correctly, though up to that
time I had been in the habit of writing it ' Eglington,' instead of as spelt
by the clairvoyante, 'Eglinton.'"
Experiment V.
"July 20th, 1853. —Sitting commenced at quarter to nine, finished 20
minutes to 10.
" She was very dull this evening, and during the experiment again com
plained of the girl [meaning herself] troubling her and that she would not
love the girl. She had been engaged the whole afternoon and evening
.nursing her child, who is weak and irritable from a late attack of measles.
Mr. Owen present. In about two minutes she fell into the state. I had
.previously requested Mr. Gibb to watch, which he did between half-past 8
.and 10, and agreed to bring her to the College of Medicine in Street.
I therefore said to her, ' We are near a railway station, let us go along the
road and turn down, and opposite to us is a door. ' ' May we go in here 1 '
«he asked. On entering, she described a gentleman as rather stoutly built,
of middle size, asking if he was a gentleman who was sitting in a room, which
was not an ordinary room, but was a place for people to come to, and which
«he said was like an office ; he was sitting doing nothing. She asked, ' Was
he expecting me to come ? ' and ' What did he want with me ? ' She did not
.seem to observe anyone else, but was by no means clear. Continually she
exclaimed, ' What a strange place, ' ' What a strange place this is, ' ' What do
they do here ?' She 'never were in a place like this before.' I requested
her to proceed upstairs, when she said they were very queer stairs, and
,asked what those were sticking in the wall. I replied that they were rafters.
She asked why they placed them there. I answered to support the roof.
She thought it must be a dangerous place if the roof required support. She
described a room at the top of the stairs to which she said many people came,
but could not imagine its use. As this was evidently the dissecting room or
lecture room, the one opening into the other, and as at this present time the
dissecting room is empty, I asked her to go into the further room of the two,
when she repeated her observations about it being a place to speak in. I
told her to look and see what was done in the room, when she replied that
she saw the gentleman speaking to a number of persons.
" At this stage I was called out, and found that Mr. P., a gentleman
belonging to the Society of Friends, wished me to accompany him to see his
son, who had returned from Carlisle after taking chloroform during the
extraction of some teeth. I requested a lady to supply my place whilst I
went with Mr. P. Jane complained bitterly of my leaving her, and insisted
,on following me. She found me, she said, with a gentleman with a broad-
brimmed hat, who was remarking 'thou knowest it.' She next described
the young gentleman ill from the effects of some stuff which had been given
to him by a person along a railway, a long way off, which had done him
harm, and that the person fancied himself a great man, but was not one, and
should not meddle with such things. She saw the room and one lady stand
ing over him, and recognised two other young ladies she had before seen,
.asking how she had got here. This was all correct, excepting that I do not
remember Mr. P. using the expression above named.
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 61
" She was requested to continue her description of the building as soon*
as I returned. I again took hold of her hands, and she then described a
lecture about cutting off legs and arms, and such like, and also a room next
it with bones and skeletons in it, and things, the names of which she could
not catch, in glass cases for the gentlemen to look at and think about."
The important part of Experiment V. in relation to clairvoyance
is Jane's mental following of Dr. P., when he went with Mr. P., since
the account of the College of Medicine hardly seems to have included
details unknown to or unguessed by Dr. F. The same kind of know
ledge of what Dr. F. is doing at a distance is shown in Experiments
VII. and VIII., which follow, but in the latter he had a definite
intention that she should know it.
Experiment VII.
July 26</i.
" I have classed under this head the results obtained at two sittings, but
I was not present myself, the clairvoyante being mesmerised by a lady (Mrs.
H. E. Fraser), who had been previously in the habit of doing it. I was
visiting a lady professionally who was suffering from headache, and mentioned
to her the subject of clairvoyance, stating that I would ' pay her a visit in
spirit. ' I met Mrs. Fraser, who had been mesmerising the clairvoyante that
morning, who said, ' Who is this lady to whom you have promised a visit 1 '
She then stated that whilst in the mesmeric state Jane was requested to find
me, which she did, stating that I was in a room with a lady, to whom I was
addressing the words I have before used, and adding, ' But we will pay her a
visit in spirit.' When she was next under the influence of Mrs. Fraser, she
recurred to this, and described the room in which the lady with whom she had
found me was sitting, stated that it had a beautiful sea view, was very
handsomely furnished, and that in the corner was lying a thing to look
through, also some ladies' work. In all this she was perfectly correct,
although Mrs. Fraser was not in the slightest degree acquainted with the
house or the lady."
Experiment VIII.
July 20th, 9 p.m.
[Mrs. Fraser, who was present, states that the account here given by
Jane was accurate, though by an accident this is not expressly stated.]
" Mrs. B. [i.e., Mrs. Fraser] put Jane into the mesmeric sleep, and then
bid her find Dr. F., who had previously gone into the next room, Mrs. B.
not knowing how he intended to employ himself there. Jane was a few
minutes before she could say anything about him, and then exclaimed, ' Why
he is putting the things in an uproar ? His mamma don't like him to put
things in an uproar. There is a lady with him. Is it our own we ? He does
not make a good lady ; he is a gentleman lady ; our lady gone now. He is
busy with his toilet. Does he think himself smart ? He is just like a fool, like
a Punch. Will mamma we whip him for turning things upside down ? Does
she like him to amuse himself ? Is it we's own we, with a white coat on ?
What sort of a coat ? The cat lady put his coat on the wrong way to make
his face look behind. She now put a pipe in his mouth—just like Punch—
62 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
.see what is on the table—a pipe, and the cat—we don't like the cat, and a
lamp on the table. Is that a cloak he has got on t How monstrous ugly he
is, too ugly for a lady, we think. How he is turning the room upside down,
looking wrong way into the glass. Does he like to amuse himself with cats ?
He likes live cats and dead cats, and live dogs and dead dogs, and arms and
legs to cut off, and bones and skulls, and all them sort of things.'
"As Dr. F. then left the room, Mrs. B. tried her with a letter which Miss
C, who was sitting near, had in her pocket, Mrs. B. not knowing the writer.
Jane was bid to find the writer. She said she must go a long way on the
railway, and found him at Carlisle, with a wide hat on, and she said he was
a nice gentleman, and had a good mind, but she said he would not believe
.about the sleep. Mrs. B. asked what would make him believe it. Jane said
lie wished to see miracles, but if he did see them he would not believe. Then
she said, ' We so very indignant at him not believing. ' She then got so
excited and angry, saying she would not look any more at him. Mrs. B. then
tried her with another letter, the contents of which were known to Mrs. B.,
but not to Jane. She said the letter was from a young lady, at the large
town ; that it was about we's sleep, and about the gentleman whom she had
been to search for in the cold country (Lieutenant Pym), but that the writer
would not believe in the sleep, so she would not look any more at him."
In Jane's case we have an advance on the Peterhead one, in respect
of the difficulty of applying a telepathic explanation, because she seems to
have been able to perceive the surroundings of distant people who were
unknown to her, though known to her hypnotiser or others in the
room. In the most marked case of this, however, among those recorded
at the time, Mr. Eglinton, though unacquainted with Jane, was aware
that an attempt to see him clairvoyantly was to be made at that hour,
and was not only interested in it, but made somewhat elaborate
arrangements in view of it, so that we may almost regard him as a
conscious " Agent."
We may take next a group of four cases observed by Mr. A. W.
Dobbie, of Gawler-place, Adelaide, South Australia (an Associate of the
S.P.R.), with various hypnotic subjects of his own. Mr. Dobbie has
practised hypnotism for the last ten or twelve years, and has found
himself to be a very successful operator. He has hypnotised, he tells
us, more than 500 persons, chiefly with the view of alleviating suffer
ing, and has come across a few who seem to be capable of clairvoyance.
It will be convenient to take the four cases together, not because they
resemble each other, but because they all are the result of Mr. Dobbie's
experiments.
The first is a comparatively slight case of the type of Dr. F.'s
Experiment VIII. with Jane, and may easily be explained telepathi-
cally. We extract the account from Mr. Dobbie's notebook, which,
when he was in England in 1889; he allowed us to .study.
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. C3
(M. 19.)- November 28th, 1884. "This evening, whilst at Mrs. E.'s,
engaged mesmerising 6 or 7 persons for clairvoyant purposes, Lilly Thomas
came to me from the Rev. H. T. B.'s to be cured of toothache. Having
mesmerised her either once or twice before, I knew she was an easy subject,
so I put her into the conscious impressible state immediately, and cured her
toothache.
" I then asked her to go (clairvoyantly) to the breakfast-room of the Rev.
H. T. B., and tell me who was there. In about a minute she said, "Mrs.
W. B. is sitting in the rocking-chair. ' ' Who else is in the room 1 ' ' The
two little girls.' ' What are they doing ? ' 'Sewing.' ' Can you hear them
talking?' 'Yes, Mrs. W. B. has just told them they mustn't do some
thing. '
" I afterwards (the same evening) visited Mrs. B., and found that my
clairvoyant had told me quite correctly. I then asked Mrs. W. B. to bring
her into the room, and I would again try her powers. I found her tooth
ache had not given her any more trouble. I again, in a few seconds, mes
merised her, and went into another room and placed a rocking-chair and
cruet-stand on the table, and coming back, I said, ' Now, I want you to tell
me what is on the table in the breakfast-room.' In a few minutes she said,
in evident astonishment, ' The rocking-chair is on the table. ' ' Anything
else?' I inquired. 'Yes, the cruet-stand.'
"With a view of proving whether it was simply thought-reading or
genuine clairvoyance, I asked Mrs. B. to go into the room and do something
nnd remain there. I then said to L. T., ' Is anyone in the room ? ' ' Yes,
Mrs. W. B.' ' What is she doing?' 'Sitting in the small rocking-chair,
laughing.' I hurried to the room, and found things exactly as described.
'' It being now 10 o'clock, and I four miles from home, I was reluctantly
compelled to hurry away without further experiments."
The first of these trials may have been an instance of successful
guessing, as Lilly Thomas was, we presume, familiar with the ways of
the household, and we have no reason to think that anything unusual
was going on. The second, again, may have been, as Mr. Dobbie sug
gests, thought-transference from himself. It is the third which appears
to be a genuine instance of clairvoyance, telepathic or other.
In the case to be next given it seems likely that the close relation
,of father and daughter may have facilitated the clairvoyance. We
again extract the account from Mr. Dobbie's notebook.
"June Kith, 1884.
(M. 20.) " Up to the present time this has been the most interesting
,case I have had.
' ' In the first instance I mesmerised [Miss ] as an experiment whilst
I was endeavouring to mesmerise several others. I found her an easy sub
ject. I afterwards had occasion to mesmerise her with a view of relieving her
from rheumatic pains. I always succeeded in removing her pains and curing
her sore throat, whether I put her into the mesmeric sleep or not. As with
several other patients, I can entirely remove all sensation of feeling from her
64 Mrs. H. SidgvAclc,
limbs, so that she can be severely pricked with a needle without experiencing
the slightest inconvenience. About the fifth time I mesmerised her it sud
denly occurred to me to test her clairvoyant powers, and I was delighted to
find that she developed this wonderful faculty.
" The following is a verbatim account of the second time I tested her
powers in this respect, April 12th, 1884. There were four persons present
during the seance. One of the company wrote down the replies as they were
spoken.
* * * * *
' ' Her father was at the time over 50 miles away, but we did not know
exactly where, so I questioned her as follows : ' Can you find your father at
the present moment 1 ' At first she replied that she could not see him, but
in a minute or two she said, ' Oh yes, now I can see him, Mr. Dobbie. '
' Where is he 1 ' ' Sitting at a large table in a large room, and there are a
lot of people going in and out.' ' What is he doing ? ' ' Writing a letter,
and there is a book in front of him.' 'Who is he writing to V 'To the*
newspaper.' Here she paused and laughingly said, 'Well, I declare, he is.
writing to the A. B.' [naming a newspaper]. 'You said there was a book
there. Can you tell me what book it is 1 ' 'It has gilt letters on it.' ' Can
you read them, or tell me the name of the author?' She read, or pronounced
slowly, ' W. L. W.' [giving the full surname of the author]. She answered
several minor questions re the furniture in the room, and I then said to her,
' Is it any effort or trouble to you to travel in this way 1 ' ' Yes, a little ; I
have to think.'
"I now stood behind her, holding a half-crown in my hand, and asked
her if she could tell me what I had in my hand, to which she replied, ' It is.
a shilling. ' It seemed as though she could see what was happening miles
away easier than she could see what was going on in the room.
" Her father returned home nearly a week afterwards and was perfectly
astounded when told by his wife and family what he had been doing on that
particular evening, and although previous to that date he was a thorough
sceptic as to clairvoyance, he frankly admitted that my clairvoyant was
perfectly correct in every particular. He also informed us that the book
referred to was a new one which he had purchased after he had left his;
home, so that there was no possibility of his daughter guessing that he had
the book before him. I may add that the letter in due course appeared in
the paper ; and I saw and handled the book."
Mr. Dobbie was anxious to obtain for us the corroborative testi
mony of the family in this case, but they were averse to giving any
assistance in the investigation.
The next case was sent to us by Mr. Dobbie by letter in July,.
1886, and he tells us that the notes are a copy of the notes he "wrote
down the moment the words were uttered."
"Jidy 4th, 1886.
(M. 6.) "Striking case of clairvoyance, which occurred May 28th, 1886,,
in the presence of the Hon. Dr. Campbell, M.L.C., Hon. David Murray,
M.L.C., and Chief Secretary of South Australia, Mr. Lyall, and Mr-
Fleming, solicitor :—
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 65
"The circumstances are briefly as follows, viz. : Dr. Campbell, being
present at one of my usual clairvoyant evenings, handed me a gold sleeve-
link, at the same time telling me that he had lost the fellow one to it, but
had no idea as to what had become of it ; he asked me to give the remain
ing one to one of my clairvoyants and see if they could find the missing one.
I should state that neither of the clairvoyants had ever seen either of the
rooms they referred to, nor did they know the names of the children, or
anything in connection with this case, so that it is either a case of genuine
clairvoyance, or else a most remarkable case of thought-reading.
" I first handed the sleeve-link to the younger of the two sisters [Misses
Eliza and Martha Dixon], who is not so lucid as her sister (I was giving the
elder one a rest, as she had been hard at work, clairvoyantly, for the past
hour).
" Miss Martha began by first accurately describing Dr. Campbell's
features, then spoke of a little fair-haired boy who had a stud, or sleeve-
link, in his hand, also of a lady calling him ' Neil ' ; then said that this
little boy had taken the link into a place like a nursery where there were
some toys, especially a large toy elephant, and that he had dropped the link '
into this elephant through a hole which had been torn or knocked in the
breast ; also that he had taken it out again, and gave two or three other
interesting particulars. We were reluctantly compelled to postpone further
investigation until two or three evenings afterwards.
' ' On the next occasion (in the interval, however, the missing sleeve-link
had been found, but left untouched), I again placed the link in her hand
and the previous particulars were at once reproduced ; but as she seemed to
be getting on very slowly, it occurred to Dr. Campbell to suggest placing his
hand on that of the clairvoyant, so I placed him en rapport and allowed him
to do so, he simply touching the back of her hand with the points of his
fingers. As she still seemed to have great difficulty (she is always much
slower than her sister) in proceeding, it suddenly occurred to me that it
would be an interesting experiment to place Miss Eliza Dixon en rapport
with Miss Martha, so I simply joined their disengaged hands, and Miss
Eliza immediately commenced as follows, viz. :—
"'I'm in a house, upstairs, I was in a bathroom, then I went into
another room nearly opposite, there is a large mirror just inside the
door on the left hand, there is a double-sized dressing-table with drawers
down each side of it, the sleeve-link is in the corner of the drawer
nearest the door. When they found it they left it there. I know why they
left it there, it was because they wanted to see if we would find it. I can
see a nice easy chair there, it is an old one, I would like it when I am put to
sleep, because it is nice and low. The bed has curtains, they are a sort of
brownish net and have a fringe of darker brown. The wall paper is of a
light blue colour. There is a cane lounge there and a pretty Japanese
screen behind it, the screen folds up. There is a portrait of an old gentle
man over the mantelpiece, he is dead, I knew him when he was alive, his
name is the same as the gentleman who acts as Governor when the Governor
is absent from the colony,1 I will tell you his name directly—it is the Rev.
1 Chief Justice Way is the gentleman who acts as Deputy for his Excellency when,
absent from the colony.—A. W. D.
F
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
Mr. Way. It was a little boy who put the sleeve-link in that drawer, he is
very fair, his hair is almost white, he is a pretty little boy, he has blue eyes
and about three years old. The link had been left on that table, the little
boy was in the nursery, and he went into the bedroom after the gentle
man had left. I can see who the gentleman is, it is Dr. Campbell. Doesn't
that little boy look a young Turk, the link is quite a handful for his little
hand, he is running about with it very pleased ; but he doesn't seem to
know what to do with it. (A)
[Dr. Campbell was not present from this point. ]
' ' 'Now I can hear someone calling up the stairs, a lady is calling two names,
Colin is one and Neil is the other, the other boy is about five years old and
is darker than the other. The eldest, Colin, is going downstairs now, he is
gone into what looks like a dining-room, the lady says, " Where is Neil ? "
" Upstairs, ma." "Go and tell him to come down at once." The little fair-
haired boy had put the link down ; but when he heard his brother coming
up, he picked it up again. Colin says—"Neil, you are to come down at
once." "I won't," says Neil. "You're a goose," replies Colin, and he turned
and went down without Neil. What a young monkey ! now he has gone
into the nursery and put the link into a large toy elephant, he put it through
a hole in front, which is broken. He has gone downstairs now, I suppose he
thinks it is safe there.
' ' ' Now that gentleman has come into the room again and he wants that
link ; he is looking all about for it, he thinks it might be knocked down :
the lady is there now too, and they are both looking for it. The lady says—
" Are you sure you put it there ?" The gentleman says, " Yes."
" ' Now it seems like next day, the servant is turning the carpet up and
looking all about for it ; but can't find it.
' ' ' The gentleman is asking that young Turk if he has seen it, he knows
that he is fond of pretty things. The little boy says, " No." He seems to
think it is fine fun to serve his father like that.
" ' Now it seems to be another day and the little boy is in the nursery
again, he has taken the link out of the elephant, now he has dropped it into
that drawer, that is all I have to tell you about it, I told you the rest
before .' "
"July 15th, 1886.
" Since writing the above pages I have handed them to Dr. Campbell
for perusal, so that he might check the account and ratify it or otherwise,
and after going carefully through it he has returned it to me, accompanied
by a complete ratification in writing, which I herewith enclose.
"A. W. Dobbie."
Memo, by Dr. Campbell.
"Adelaide, JvhjQth, 1886.
"At the point (A) the seance was discontinued till the next sitting, when
I was absent. The conversation reported as passing between the children is
correct. The description of the room is accurate in every point. The
portrait is that of the late Rev. James Way. The description of the children
and their names are true. The fact that the link was discovered in the
drawer, in the interval between one sitting and the final one, and that the
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 67
link was left there, pending the discovery of it by the clairvoyant, is also
correct, as this was my suggestion to Mrs. Campbell when she showed it to
me in the corner of the drawer. In fact, every circumstance reported is
absolutely correct. I know, further, that neither of the clairvoyants has
ever been inside of my door. My children are utterly unknown to them,
either in appearance or by name. I may say also that they had no know
ledge of my intention to place the link in their possession, or even of my
presence at the seance, as they were both on each occasion in the mesmeric
sleep when I arrived.—Allan Campbell."
In a later letter, dated December 16th, 1887, Dr. Campbell writes :—
"Dear Mr. Dobbie,—Your London correspondent asks if I had any
knowledge of the conversation that the clairvoyant stated had passed
between the children. I had no knowledge whatever of this conversation,
nor the circumstances attending it, until she repeated it. It was subsequently
confirmed to me in part by Mrs. Campbell, such part as she herself is
reported to have taken in the tableau.
"With respect to the large toy elephant, I certainly knew of its
existence, but was not thinking of it at the time the clairvoyant was speak
ing. I did not know even by suspicion that the elephant was so mutilated
as to have a large opening in its chest, and on coming home had to
examine the toy to see whether the statement was correct. I need hardly
say that it was absolutely correct.—I am, yours sincerely,
"Allan Campbell."
Mr. Dobbie tells us that "neither he nor his clairvoyants had any
opportunity, directly or indirectly, of knowing any of the particulars
brought out by the clairvoyant." He afterwards saw the room described,
and says " the description is simply perfect in every particular."
There are several noteworthy points about this rather complicated
case. In the first place it will be noticed that the greater part of the
information given by the clairvoyants might have been obtained by
thought-transference from the mind of Dr. Campbell, who was present
most of the time. It would then, at any rate, be a very remarkable
and interesting case of thought-transference, but so far it would not be
clairvoyance as we have defined it. Further, a large proportion of the
.statements made—all about the little boy taking, hiding, and restoring
the sleeve link—are unverifiable. But there is one important point
unknown to Dr. Campbell (so far as his conscious memory, at least, was
concerned) and afterwards proved true, and that is the existence of the
hole in the front of the toy elephant. The introduction of this peculiar
fact—which if learnt by mind-reading must, it would seem, have been
learnt from the child, or some other person quite unknown to the per
cipient—is so remarkable that it makes it seem more probable than
not that the hiding of the sleeve link there was also a fact. If so, it is
greatly to be regretted in the interests of science that the child ever
took it out again ! I attach less importance, as evidence of clairvoy
f 2
68 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
ance, to the knowledge of the conversation of the children than to that
of the hole in the toy elephant, because it is more the kind of thing
that might be guessed.
Another noticeable point in this case is that so far as the clair
voyants' remarks relate to the actions of those concerned—the children,
Dr. and Mrs. Campbell, the servant—the descriptions are not of the
present but of the past. A knowledge of past actions was similarly
shown by "Jane " when she said that Dr. F.'s mother had been putting
stockings away in a drawer (see p. 58), and we shall meet with it again
in the case to be next given. This clairvoyant knowledge of the past
seems to me, if true, to be a fact of great importance, and to afford a
strong argument against any kind of direct perception by the clair
voyant.
In the case just discussed the clairvoyant seems cognisant of the
surroundings of persons with whom she is herself entirely unacquainted,
but who were known to someone present with her and possibly en
rapport with her. The next case takes us a step further, for the people
whose surroundings were seen were absolutely unknown to all present.
Unfortunately, the case is less well evidenced than the last, because Mr.
Dobbie, contrary to his usual practice, omitted to make notes at the
time. He says :—
(M. 11.) " I considered that it would be so very improbable that my
clairvoyant would be able to do anything with so little clue, that I did not
think it worth while writing a single note, in fact, I should not have wasted
time over the experiment but for fear of being thought disobliging."
The account we print was sent to us by Mr. Dobbie in a letter contain
ing other narratives as well, and which was begun in January and finished
in March, 1886. The part relating to this incident is dated March 7th, and
it appears from Mr. Dobbie's notebook that the incident itself occurred early
in January, 1886.
"One evening, whilst I was busy with several of my clairvoyants, Mr.
Adamson, J.P. (one of the leading citizens of Adelaide), called, in company
with his daughter, and handing me two or three trinkets which had been
suspended to her watch-chain, simply remarked, 'We have lost something.
Will you kindly see if your clairvoyant can help us in the matter?'
'' My clairvoyants all being asleep, I quietly placed the trinkets in the
hand of the one called Miss E. Dixon, without remark. In a moment or
two she proceeded to give an accurate description of the young lady who
owned the trinkets. I then said, ' Never mind the young lady, something is
lost ; try and find it. '
"In a few moments she commenced to describe a gold pencil-case which
she saw ' lying on the road in one of the suburbs, not in the city, it is not
there now, it is in a comfortable-looking one-storey house, with a garden
and iron railings in front and a two-storey building opposite. ' She then
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 69
described the gentleman who had possession of the pencil-case, whom she saw
with his wife, and also quoted a remark he made, ' We will lay it aside and
see if anyone claims it, ' and stated that it was placed ' in a small box. ' My
,clairvoyant seemed unable to give me the locality of this gentleman and his
house ; however, in reply to an advertisement next day or day after, a
gentleman answering the description given by my clairvoyant brought the
lost pencil-case to Mr. Adamson, who, naturally enough, was so astounded
at the correct description of a person none of us had ever seen or known, that
he took the tram and visited the neighbourhood and house in which the
gentleman resided, and to his astonishment he found that the description
was exact, in fact it was the only house in the neighbourhood having iron
railings, also that there actually was a two-storey house opposite, which was
also the only one in the neighbourhood. Mr. Adamson, on questioning the
gentleman, found that the pencil-case was found on the road as described ;
also that it had been placed in the small box and the remark made re wait
ing to ' see if it would be claimed ' by the gentleman.
"To still further test the genuineness of the clairvoyance, I arranged
(quite unknown to my clairvoyant, of course) to have the said gentleman
present with about twelve other persons,who all entered the room after I had
put my clairvoyant to sleep, and, on placing the trinkets and pencil-case in her
hands again, she immediately found herself at the same house again and saw
the same gentleman. I then instructed her to remember (my subjects
never remember anything when they wake up unless I instruct them to do
so) the features of this gentleman, so that if ever she should meet him in
the future she would recognise him. I then woke her up, and to the
astonishment and delight of all present she at once voluntarily recognised
the gentleman as the one she had seen when mesmerised. Of course, you
will see at once that the fact of the clairvoyant recognising the gentleman
is not of itself of much scientific value, because the fact that I by this time
knew the features of the gentleman makes it possible to bring that part
of the experiment under the category of thought-transference, but taken
in conjunction with the previous parts, I think the idea of thought-
transference may be discarded.
"It is only fair to mention that Mr. Adamson, J.P., is universally
acknowledged by his very large circle of acquaintances to be one of the most
common-sense and shrewdest men in South'Australia, and occupies leading
positions on many of the public committees and boards of our city.
"A. W. Dobbie."
The following statement, Mr. Dobbie tells us, was handed to him by Mr.
Adamson on March 8th, 1886 :—
" Dear Sir,—I have looked through that portion of your letter on pages
7 and 8, and agree with most of what is there. You had best, however,
leave out 'one of the leading citizens,' &c. The following is my version of
the affair :—
'' Passing your house one evening, in company with a daughter, who had
lost a trinket off her watch-chain a week or so previous, and who lamented
its loss, not on account of intrinsic value, but as an old keepsake, I said to
her : ' Come in and see if Mr. Dobbie can find it for you.' We told you our
70 Mrs. H. Sidgwiclc.
trouble, that something was lost off a watch-chain, and asked your assistance
in its recovery, promising to bring you next evening the remaining trinkets,
consisting of three lockets. You said it was a difficult case, but you would
try.
" You had three clairvoyants asleep when we entered your room ;
shortly afterwards you placed the trinkets in the hand of one of them, a
female. Soon after which she began a fair description of my daughter ;
this you stopped, informing her that something was lost which we wanted
to find. She was silent for a minute or two, and then said : ' I think I
see it now. It was in the dust, and a man has found it.' The question was
put : ' What is it ? ' She answered : ' A ring ; there is something on it ; it
is not a key, oh ! it's a pencil-case ; it's bright and shining. ' She was then
asked to follow the man home. This caused a long silence. At length she
said : ' I am there now ; he is showing it to a woman. I think it is his wife.
He is putting it in a box, and saying, '' We will leave it there and see what
comes of it." ' She then said more than once, 'They would give it up if they
knew who it belonged to, they do not want to keep it ; oh, 1 wish I could
take it away, they seem honest people.' She then, in answer to questions
put, described the house in which the people lived, and the neighbourhood
exactly, but could not give the locality, as she had never been there
before—described the house as old and comfortable, like within a garden,
a wrought-iron railing in front ; no church could be seen from the gate, but
a large two-storey building opposite. She described the man accurately"
who had the pencil-case, and advised advertising for its recovery, as she
was sure of its return if it was known who was the owner.
" I may here say that this had already been done, and that next day,
after the interview, the article was returned to my son at his office in town ;
the man who brought it left his address, and I have since visited his house
and interviewed him, and he was in no small degree astonished when he
found that we had known so much about him and his proceedings. I may
state that I was almost a total unbeliever in clairvoyance until the above
incident, but am now compelled to change my opinion, and acknowledge that
there is something in it I cannot understand.
"Since the above occasion you have in my presence traced the matter
further by the clairvoyant following the finder to Adelaide, and seeing him
go upstairs to my son's office and there give up the pencil-case. Of this, as of
all former knowledge of the article in question, she must have been in total
ignorance. "A. Adamson."
The advertisement about the lost trinket in this case appears to have
been issued before the clairvoyant's statements were made, and it is
therefore conceivable that it may have been consciously or unconsciously
seen by her ; but this could not have helped her, in any normal way,
to a knowledge of the finder and his actions and surroundings, which,
though not very detailed as reported to us, seems to have been too much
so to have been the result of chance.
The percipients in this case and the last are two young ladies, sisters,
who have a large school for young children. They have very frequently
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance, 11
assisted Mr. Dobbie in his experiments, but have no pecuniary interest
in them whatever. It may be of interest to know Mr. Dobbie's method
of operating. He writes :—
" My usual method of operating is to put them to sleep by a few passes,
and then quietly to wait until they tell me they are ready. I then silently slip
the article in question into their hands, and in from two to five minutes they
begin to speak in a perfectly natural way, and I write down what they say.
In most cases when the specimen is the hair of a person who is ill, the
Misses Dixon will simply hold the hair in their hands for an interval of from
five to fifteen minutes, and then sit up to the table, opsn their eyes (though
still asleep) and write out a diagnosis of the case and prescribe remedies.
In most cases they correctly describe the ailments, although in some cases
(even when I am fully aware of the circumstances) they are entirely wrong.
Some of the cures have been very remarkable ; but I am not prepared to
positively assert whether the cures were effected by the remedies, or were the
result of faith, or, in other words, the action of the mind on the body. "
Mr. Dobbie obtained many instances of apparent clairvoyance
with the Misses Dixon, and with a Mr. Williams—a young man of 24.
But, in the majority of cases, the result was unverifiable or might be
due to thought-transference from those present. They would describe,
often with great vividness and power of imagination, some scenes
supposed to be connected with the past history of an object placed in
their hands, but it is difficult to say whether the historical or other know
ledge displayed transcended what the percipient might have possessed
in his normal state. For instance, on one occasion a fragment of con
glomerated or petrified bones, said to be the bones of Christian
martyrs slaughtered by wild beasts at the Coliseum in Rome, was
placed in Mr. Williams' hand and produced a vivid description of a
fight between men and beasts in an amphitheatre. In this case there
appears to have been at least thought-transference, for no one in the
room, except Mr. Adamson, who brought the fragment, knew normally
what it was. At the same time, if we suppose the percipient to have
got from Mr. Adamson's mind the ideas of Rome and Christian
martyrs, there may have been material in his own mind for the
development of these ideas into the scene at the Coliseum. It should
be stated as regards thought-transference, and as making rather against
its occurrence with these percipients, that Mr. Dobbie says :—,
" I have scores of times tried my level best to cause clairvoyants to see
pictures and visions by conjuring up in my own mind the most vivid pictures
imaginable, but up to the present moment I have never succeeded in making
my clairvoyants think one thought or say or see anything I have tried to
make them see in that way."
It is further worth observing that like all clairvoyants, so far as
I know, Mr. Dobbie's are not to be depended on to give correct informa
tion. He remarks :—,
72 Mrs, H. Sidgwick.
" The part which puzzles me most is the fact that very often they are
entirely wrong, even when I am fully aware of the nature or history of the
specimen I place in their hands, also when the visitors know. "
And again :—
" I have little confidence in the abilities of my clairvoyants to track the
Whitechapel murderer. I tried them once in tracing a prominent man who
suddenly disappeared from Adelaide two or three years ago, and was found
dead a fortnight afterwards. My clairvoyants insisted that the man was
alive and wandering about south of Adelaide, whereas he must have been
dead all the time, and was found north of Adelaide. "
The account to be next given, is sent by A. S. Wiltse, M.D., of
Skiddy, Kansas, U.S.A., an Honorary Associate of the American
Branch of the S.P.R. Dr. Wiltse's own comments on his experiments
bring out the noteworthy points so fully, that no further remark is, I
think, called for from me.
(M. 21.) Some Experiments in Hypnotism.
" Some time in the summer of 1882 I chanced to the good fortune of
finding an excellent subject for hypnotism in the person of Fannie G., aged
about fifteen years, and as the girl was serving us in the capacity of general
house servant, I was enabled to carry on my experiments for several weeks
together.
"I regret that, having then no idea of publishing the results of my
experiments, I took no notes ; but as I seldom take notes anyway, and
never keep a diary, purposely training my mind to retentiveness, I am sure
I can recite the main points ; and as the experiments were witnessed by many
of my neighbours I think some of my statements can be verified by the
testimony of some of these eye-witnesses.
"I had placed the subject under the full hypnotic trance several times
before she began to develop clairvoyant phenomena.
" In a former paper I have shown under what thorough test conditions I
worked,1 suffice it here to say that no possible gap for deception was left
open.
"The clairvoyant powers of my subject were first brought to notice by
some spectator asking me to see if she could not see what was transpiring in
the next room. The experiment was tried, and succeeded partially, but
after being persisted in for a few days, she developed a power of vision
(clairvoyant), which seemed practically to have no limit.
1 The paper referred to is one that was read before the Owosso Academy of
Medicine, in 188li, and of which a copy has been made for us by Dr. Wiltse's sister.
In this paper Dr. Wiltse describes the tests he applied to make sure that the hypnotic
trance, which could be induced in from five to twenty minutes, was genuine. He also
gives accounts of Experiments II., III., IV., and V. in the text, which agree with
those here given.
The following passage of the earlier paper, though it has no direct bearing on the
subject of clairvoyance, is worth quoting, especially as the transference of sensations
is referred to in the corroborative testimony appended to Dr. Wiltse's account.
"After several sittings I discovered that although the girl was insensible to painful
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 73
Experiment I.
"The company being seated along the two ends and one side of the room,
closely together, like children at a spelling match, the subject was thoroughly
hypnotised, then aroused sufficiently to be able to talk, although not to open
her eyes, and a watch was passed back and forth, secretly, among the row of
persons, always behind their backs. I was often myself deceived as to
who held the watch, but Fannie invariably indicated, either by name or
pointing to, the person who held the watch. Parties would frequently change
hands with the article at the very instant the holder was named, but she
always indicated such change of hands.
"She could not, however, tell the hour indicated upon the dial, even
when the watch was held by a person in front of her. (Mrs. Wiltse tells
me the girl could not tell the time of day by the clock when in normal
condition, as she had never learned.)"
Experiment II.
" Miss Florence F., now Mrs. R., a neighbour, was invited to attend one
evening with tests which she was to arrange during the day. She came and
told the subject to go to her kitchen and tell her what she saw. It was about
twenty rods to Miss F.'s kitchen. Subject was led to suppose she had gone
to the kitchen, and being asked what she saw, readily answered : ' The table
sits in the centre of the room, and upon it is a box covered with a cloth. '
' What is in the box, Fannie?' I asked. ' Oh, I daren't look in the box ! Miss
Florence might be mad. ' ' Miss Florence is willing you should look ; raise
the cloth, Fannie, and tell me what is there. ' She immediately answered,
' There are seven loaves of bread and sixteen biscuits in it. ' (Correct.)
"I set this down as telepathy because Miss Florence F. was in the
room, and undoubtedly the facts were prominently in her mind, having been
purposely so arranged by her for a test ; but what follows is not so plainly
telepathy.
"Miss Florence asked Fannie to tell her what was in her stable. She
answered, ' Two black horses, one grey horse, and one red horse' (meaning a
bay horse). Miss Florence : ' That is wrong, Fannie ; there are only my
black horses in the stable. ' Ten or fifteen minutes later, a brother of Miss
Florence came to the house and told Miss Florence that there were travellers
at the house, and upon inquiry we learned that the grey and ' red ' horse
belonged to them, and that they had been in the stable half an hour when
Fannie's clairvoyant eye scanned it.
'' Of course we recognise the fact that there may be set up the theory that
Fannie gleaned her knowledge from the minds of some of the parties at the
impressions, as far as her own person was concerned, she was quite sensitive to such
impressions in my own body. Thus, when standing behind her at a distance of several
feet, with my hands behind me, if a pin were thrust into my right hand, her right
hand moved and attempted to evade the pin thrust ; if I tasted, though never so slyly,
any pleasant substance, no sooner was the sense of taste fully established in my own
mouth than She began smacking her hpsas if she tasted something agreeable. If, on
the contrary, I tasted something bitter or nauseous, she made wry faces and feeble
efforts to eject it. Some things pleasant to me seemed unpleasant to her : for instance,
I mast refrain from smoking while she was under the mesmeric influence, as it nau
seated her, although the smoking of others in the room had no effect upon her."
74 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
residence of Miss Florence, or that by telepathic sympathy with her brother
or father Miss Florence was unconsciously aware of the facts, and Fannie
gathered her information from that unconscious source ; but in attempting to
establish a vera causa we should be very particular to bridge our way to it
with theories which most strongly appeal to reason and sound judgment, as
probably containing fact, and the latter of these theories at least will seem
very ' far fetched ' indeed. "
Experiment III.
" I told the subject to go with me to Chattanooga (ninety-eight miles
distant ; a city she had never visited. Indeed I am quite positive she had
never been in any city).
" ' Now we are there,' I said ; ' tell me how you like my brother's house.'
' The house is nice, ' she said, ' but the side-walk is awful narrow. ' Which
peculiarity was in my own mind at the instant. I then asked her to go with
me into the house, and pretending we had gone in, asked her to tell me what
she saw. She immediately gave an accurate description of the furniture of
the sitting-room, apparently beginning at one corner and passing in order
around the room, but coming to the piano, an instrument she had never seen,
she said, ' There is something funny, what is it 1 ' and described it very well,
speaking of the keys as pieces of white bone with short pieces of black wood
(the black keys) between them.
' ' Query : If she read all this from my mind, why could she not read the
name, or at any rate the nature of the piano ? They were there in more
legible form, it seems to me, than the rest of the matter, although, as Mr.
Hodgson suggests,— as I believe correctly solving the mystery,—she saw
more in picture form than otherwise."
Experiment IV.
"Mrs. S. J. W., whose husband was the manager of a variety theatre in
Louisville, Ky., some hundreds of miles distant, asked for information in
regard to him. Proceeded in the usual manner, but got no results except
useless exclamations of surprise about ' bill buildings, ' ' lots of people, ' &c.
Finally Mrs. S. J. W., who is a believer in all sorts of incantations, witch
craft, &c. , took a ring from her purse which she said she had taken from her
husband's finger, and dropping it in Fannie's palm said : ' May be that will
put you on the trail ! '
' ' By what I think may firstly be set down as a curious coincidence,
Fannie began, in a very few moments afterwards, to describe the lady's
husband (whom she had never seen, but I had), giving an excellent descrip
tion of him, and said, ' There are lots of people coming, and he is giving
them some sheets of yellow paper with reading on them, but he has little
cards that they have to pay him for.' To all present it seemed plain that the
yellow papers were the programmes, the cards the tickets ; but as to
Fannie's knowledge of such things during her normal state, I doubt if she
knew the meaning of the word theatre.
"Fannie now went on to describe a woman who she said was talking
and laughing with the man, and particularly described a ring upon her finger,.
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. n
when Mrs. S. J. W. flew into a tempest of rage, naming the woman, and de
claring that the ring was one she (Mrs. S. J, W.) had given her husband. It
may be proper to state that the pair had separated. As to the truth or falsity
of the whole, I can only say that the lady wept and raved by turns, and
finally gave Fannie a liberal gift for the information.
' ' The results of this experiment are so doubtful, however, and seem to
encroach so far upon the domain of the gipsy fortune-teller that I put
little confidence in it, yet it ought not to be left entirely out, as the
seeming effect of the ring placed in Fannie's hand, which I have set down as
coincidence, presents a point which the seeker after fact should not neglect
to look to in a course of experiments.
" The known is but a narrow strait,
The possible a boundless sea ;
And that may not be passing strange
That seems impossible to me.
" Who shall say, for sure, but what the thing I, in ignorance and perhaps
pride, have set down as superstition and coincidence, may be the footing pre
sented us upon some hidden but none the less natural law 1
'' There is no supernatural
In highest Heaven nor lowest earth :
If Lazarus rose, 'twas by some law
As fixed as that which gave him birth."
Experiment V.
" This night more people had congregated than could get into the house.
The building had but three rooms, the upright being divided by a partition
near the centre. The kitchen was a ' lean-to ' running the whole length of
the upright.
" Mr. William Howard had supped with us, but Fannie had not learned
his name. The people outside lifted Mr. Howard up quietly and set him
into the kitchen through the window. The door between the kitchen and
the room we occupied was closed, so that the kitchen was obscurely dark.
No one inside knew of the movement outside,which was done so quietly that
we heard no noise. Word was sent in that Fannie should examine the
kitchen. Of course I knew by this that some test had been arranged there,
but of what it consisted I had no idea. The following dialogue then occurred.
"Q. : 'Fannie, will you go into the kitchen and tell me if everything
is all right there 1 Will you?' (Shaking her gently.) Fannie: 'Yes, sir.' Q. :
' Well, what do you see ? Is everything all right there ? ' Fannie : ' There
is a man there ! ' Q. : ' Who is he 1 ' Fannie : ' I don't know his name ;
he is the man who took supper with us to-night.' Q. : ' What is he doing,
Fannie ? ' Fannie : ' Oh, he is standing with his ear up to the door and he
has your flute in his hand ; there, he has laid it down and is looking at his
watch. Oh, what a pretty gold watch ! ' This was just what my friend in
the kitchen was doing, although none of us who were in the room, neither
any of the parties outside, knew what he was actually doing. I did not even
know the flute was there ; it did not belong there, but had been carelessly
placed, and my friend accidentally laid his hand upon it in groping his way
through the dark room, and, when he overheard Fannie's remark, he put
76 Mr.?. H. Sidgwick.
it down and took out his watch to test her ability to describe his move
ments."
Experiment VI.
" Mr. Howard, the same mentioned in Experiment V., lived six miles
from me. He had just built a large frame house ; our subject had never seen
the house, although, I presume, she may have heard it talked of. Mr. Howard
had not been home for some days, and asked that Fannie should go there
and see if all were well. She exclaimed at the size of the house, but railed
at the ugliness of the front fence, saying she would not have ' such an old
torn-down ' fence in front of so nice a house. ' Yes,' said Howard, laugh
ing, ' my wife has been worrying the life out of me about the fence and the
front steps.' 'Oh,' interrupted Fannie, 'the steps are nice and new ! '
' She is off there,' said Howard, ' the steps are worse than the fence.'
' Don't you see, ' exclaimed Fannie, impatiently, ' how new and nice the
steps are ? Humph !' (And she seemed absolutely disgusted, judging by the
tone.) ' I think they are real nice.'
" Changing the subject, Howard asked her how many windows were in
his house. Almost instantly she gave a number (I think it was twenty-six).
Howard thought it was too many, but upon carefully counting, found it
exact.
" From my house he went directly home, and, to his great surprise, found
that during his absence his wife had employed a carpenter who had built new
front steps, and they had been completed a day or two before Fannie had
scanned the premises for him with her invisible telescope.
" Mr. Howard's son, a youth, had gone into an adjoining county and
was not expected back for some days. Fannie was acquainted with the young
man (Andrew). Mr. Howard, having business back at the station, was with
us again the next night. His faith in our ' oracle ' had assumed larger pro
portions, and he suggested a visit home by means of Fannie's wonderful
faculty. She described the rooms excellently, even to a bouquet on one of
the tables, and said that several young people were there. Asked who they
were, she replied that she did not know any of them except Andrew. ' But,'
I said, 'Andrew is not at home.' Fannie : 'Why, don't you see him ? '
Q. : ' Sure, Fannie V F. : ' Oh, don't I know Andrew ? Right there, ho
is. ' Mr. Howard returned home the next morning, where he found that,
Andrew had returned late the day before, and that several young people in the
neighbourhood had passed the evening with him. So we got another lesson
of faith.
"The next experiment presents a complete chain of evidence, so that
nothing is left isolated to set down as probable or even possible coincidence ;
and suggestion, either conscious or unconscious, being entirely excluded, 1
think I may boldly lay claim to my experiments establishing clairvoyance as
a fact in the realm of the known and thoroughly demonstrated.
" Since beginning this article, I concluded it would not be just to trust
entirely to my own memory, and sent back to Tennessee, where the experi
ments were made, for evidence of eye-witnesses to the experiments. The
evidence arrived by to-day's post, January 12th, 1891, and I take pleasure
in attaching it to the article."
Oil the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 77
Experiment VII.
"Mr. Wm. Howard and Mr. N. Parker called upon me early one
morning (stating that they had called by request of neighbours) to ask me
to hypnotise Fannie for the purpose of possibly gaining some knowledge of
the whereabouts of the body of Uncle Julian Scott, who had ridden into the
Emerald River late the night before and was drowned. We were on the
street during the conversation, and I replied that as here was an opportunity
to settle the question of Fannie's clairvoyance being anything beyond mere
mind-reading, we would not tell Fannie what she was to be questioned about
until after she was hypnotised, so that her mind might not be at all biassed
by any pre-supposed knowledge of the matter.
"We went to the house, but Fannie seemed very unwilling to be ques
tioned without being first informed of the nature of the subject. This was
the first time she had been approached in quite so ceremonious and official
a manner, and it altogether aroused her suspicions. The truth was, Fannie
had a sweetheart, and was exceedingly fearful that someone might pry into
his and her secrets, as she had a belief that she would answer any question
that should be asked her during her trance, so that I had always to assura
her upon my word of honour that no questions of this nature should be
asked her. But the unusual event of two leading citizens calling purposely
to have her ' go to sleep ' and then be questioned upon a subject of which
she might not be informed beforehand, was a grain too much, and she quietly
rebelled. The matter was compromised, however, by my reducing the
matter in hand to writing, lotting Mrs. Wiltse read it and assure her it was
nothing objectionable, put it into a sealed envelope, and hold for her until
she should wake, Mrs. Wiltse mounting guard over her while asleep, to look
out for her interests. Under these conditions she passed readily enough
into the hypnotic trance.
"I then stated the case to her, asking her to go with us to the river,
where we would take a skiff and look for the body. 'Is Uncle Julian
drowned ? Poor old man ! ' she exclaimed. She expressed her willingness
to go with us, only stipulating that Mrs. Wiltse should accompany us. I
pretended to get horses, and we started (in her mind).
"It was three miles to the river. On the real road lived a Mrs. Hall, a
widow, and Fannie called out suddenly, 'There is Mrs, Hall's place ! Let
us have her go with us ' ' ' All right, Fannie, she says she will go with us,
and here we are already ! ' A few moments of that peculiar deep sleep to sug
gest the passage of time, and I rouse Fanny again by a gentle shake, and say,
' Here we are, and here is the boat ; now I will paddle slowly and you look
carefully into the water. Now what do you see 1 ' She immediately began
to describe rocks, logs, snags, bottom, &c. (Suggestion. I had constantly
to repeat the question, ' What do you see 1 Do you see anything 1 Can you
see the bottom ?' &c, or she would shortly be snoring.)
" After a little she said suddenly, as if somewhat excited, 'There is some
thing over yonder ahead of us ! ' Q. : ' Which way, Fannie 1 ' F. : ' Right
hand, way down yonder. Paddle nearer to it.' Q. : ' All right. Here we
go ! Now, what is it ? ' F. : ' I see now. It is a hat.' Q. : ' Where ? '
F. : ' Don't you see there in that drift ? ' (This is according to Mrs. Wiltse's
recollection of the affair. My own is that it was in a bush.) Q. : ' Describe
78 Mis. H. Sidgwick.
the place, Fannie, so we can get it as we come back.' F. : ' Don't you see V
&c. And she described certain peculiarities upon the bank.
" Soon after this she announced an object near the left bank of the
stream and asked to be paddled over there. Then asked if we did not see an
old tree body under the water near the bank. Q. : ' Yes, Fannie, what
about it ] ' F. : ' Why, don't you see ? There is something under it.' Q. :
' What is it, Fannie ? ' F. : ' I can't see. Paddle closer. ' Q. : ' All right !
Here we are '. ' (Silence on Fannie's part.) Q. : 'What is it, Fannie?'
F. : ' Some big dark thing ; I can't see what. There is a saddle there. Don't
you see it ? ' Q. : ' Yes, Fannie, what else ? ' F. : ' Something, but I can't
see it good ; the water is muddy. The saddle is there. I can see it, and one
stirrup is gone.' Q. : 'All right. Can you see anything on the bank that
we may know the spot as we come back ?' F. : ' Why, of course. Don't you
see how the sand is worked up in that low S]jot around the roots of that
tree ?'
"I see that my evidence upon the points in regard to the saddle with its
missing stirrup and the hat is not as explicit and at first hand as I could wish,
nor indeed as I intend to have it yet, for I can never rest quite satisfied upon
those two points until I have the direct evidence of eye-witnesses. Upon
these subjects we must have settled facts. But although I lived in that neigh
bourhood for some time after that, and heard a great deal of talk upon the
subject, I never heard the points brought in question. In fact, so far were
the people at large from doubting that I had performed something out of the
usual line that many of them were afraid to come near me, for fear I might
take a notion to throw some horrible spell upon them, which notion was
strengthened by the fun-loving propensities of several of my neighbours,
who delighted in scaring these superstitious ones. Still, however much cir
cumstantial evidence we may have, I advise that these two points be held
suspect until direct evidence is obtained. But common rumour had it that
Fannie was right upon these points. As to the rest of the points, I was
witness myself to the accuracy of her statements, which I will proceed to
conclude.
' ' We passed on down the river, Fannie professing inability to see any
thing more of interest, and after a few minutes complaining of being tired
and cold and teasing to go back, said there was no use to go any further, that
they would not find Uncle Julian now, and repeated her curious assertion
about the uselessness of going any farther by saying with considerable stress,
' It will be no use ever to look below right here !' Q. : ' All right, Fannie. Wo
will go back, but first show us some mark by which we shall remember the
place, can you ! ' ' Why, don't you see ? ' she exclaimed in a tone of seeming
disgust. Q. : 'What is it, Fannie?' F. : 'Oh, don't you see that tall bridge?'
Q. : ' Where, Fannie V F. : ' Why, right there ! We just now passed under
it, right there it is. ' (Note. Bridges in these parts were very scarce. The
Emerald River had at that time but one bridge crossing it, an iron railroad
bridge, which I feel sure Fannie had never seen, as there was no public road
to it, it crossing the river at a wild, isolated, almost inaccessible spot in the
mountains, several miles from where we were sitting.) 'What kind of a
bridge is it, Fannie ? ' I asked, purposely for a test of the reality of her
vision, for she was now back into the realm of my own knowledge, and I was
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 79
somewhat surprised at her correctness. P. (hesitating for a space as if taking
a careful view, then in a tone of curious surprise) : ' Why, it looks as if it
must be made of iron ! ' (Suggestion.)
'' Here ends the absolutely indisputable, independent clairvoyance of our
subject in this experiment, but what follows, I believe, throws much light
into the dark corner of natural inquiry into reasons why one should be inde
pendently clairvoyant at one moment and only so telepathically the next,
although my theory would not be in place in the present article.
'' Just as I had suggested that we were on the way back, Mr. Howard
was called to the door, where a neighbour informed him, in so low a tone
that none inside heard it, that the body had been recovered and conveyed to
the residence of his (Uncle Julian's) son, who lived on the bank of the river
near the ford where we had made our imaginary start with a boat. The
message had all the appearance of truth. Mr. Howard came in looking
rather chagrined, as I certainly felt, and informed me in a whisper of the
news. 'Be quiet,' I replied, 'I will try another experiment.' I didn't
believe this could be successful.
" 'Fannie,' I said, ' here we are now at the landing. We are all of us
cold. Let us go into the Scotts' and warm.' She agreed. I pretended we
had entered the house, when Fanny exclaimed in a much excited manner,
' Why, there he is.' Q. : ' Who, Fannie V F. : ' Why, don't you see it ? '
Q. : ' See what, Fannie 1 ' F. : ' Why, they have found Uncle Julian and got
him laid out. ' She then went on to speak of different relatives and friends
who were there, of their crying, &c. , naming such persons as we supposed it
would be very certain would be there.
" Here was telepathy, most likely, with a vengeance, for not a word of
the whole thing was true. The body was not recovered until fourteen days
after the drowning, when it was discovered by a train hand from a moving
train crossing the bridge Fannie had declared we had 'just passed under,'
where it had lodged upon an old drift just below the bridge. Many times
since then the old drift has been pointed out to me from the bridge as the
spot ' where Uncle Julian was found,' and I have as often thought of the
perfectly apparent prophecy of Fannie in her emphatic assertion, ' We have
just passed under that tall bridge and it will be useless ever to look for
Uncle Julian below here ! ' I could flip a marble from the top of the bridge
into the drift where rested his body fourteen days after her curious trip by
water to that identical spot by way of—what ? I listen for the answer. Had
I possibly demonstrated the soul, as I began experimenting with the dismal
hope of perhaps some time accomplishing fifteen years prior to this, which
hope I had never once quite relinquished ? "
Mrs. Wiltse writes to Mr. Hodgson :—
" Skiddy, Morris Co., Kansas, January 16th, 1891.
" My husband having read to me his paper entitled ' Some Experiments
in Hypnotism,' paragraph by paragraph carefully, I hereby certify that its
contents correspond substantially with my own recollection of the experi
ments as I saw them done several years ago.
"Mrs. Haidee Wiltse."
Dr. Wiltse states that he has introduced the slight differences in Mrs.
Wiltse's recollection and his own.
80 Mrs. H. S'ulgwick
Mrs. Roberts, the Miss Florence F. of the narrative, writes to Dr.
Wiltse :—
"Cardiff, Tenn., January 13th, 1891.
" Your letter was received lute last night, and I hasten to reply. Your
statement [the one that follows] is correct as far as it goes. But if you
remember we asked, or rather you asked Fannie, to go into our storeroom
and see what was in there, and she said a hind quarter of beef, which was
true, we had got it late that evening. You also asked her to go in the
kitchen and see how many loaves of bread she could find, which she told, and
on counting them after returning home, she was correct. It was in the
winter of '81 or '82, I think, either December, '81, or in the January or
February of '82, I cannot remember the month ; I know it was cold weather.
If you remember when old Julian Scott was drowned, it was about that time,
for if I remember right you were trying that same night to get her to find
his body. I think, as well as I remember, that she located his saddle, and a
few days after it was found in a place that she described, but she could not
find the body.
"Mrs. Florence F. Roberts."
Statement.
"Miss Florence F. was at the house one evening, and asked Fannie to
look into her stable and tell her what she saw. She replied that there were
two black horses, one grey horse, and one red horse (meaning, of courss, a
bay horse). Miss Florence said, ' That is wrong ; there are only my two
blacks." Soon after her brother came in, saying there were some travellers
at the house, and upon inquiry we learned that these travellers had a grey
horse and a bay in the stable, so that after all Fannie was right, the two
strange horses having been there when Fannie's clairvoyant vision had looked
into the stable.
' ' This statement is correct.
"Mrs. Florence F. Roberts."
Questions answered by William Howard (Ex-Trustee).
Question 1.—" Was Uncle Julian Scott's saddle found in the river, as
described, before its finding by Fannie G. when mesmerised ? "
Answer 1.—"I wasn't present when it was found, but was told so by truthful
people."
Question 2.—" Was one stirrup gone as she said 1 "
Answer 2.—"I was told the same about the stirrup ; also his hat."
Question 3.—"Was his hat found in a bush in the water at the point
described by her ? "
Question 4.—"Did she describe your new doorsteps to you before you knew
they were built 1 "
Answer 4.—"Yes."
Question 5.—," Did she give a right statement of your holding your watch in
your hand, putting back in your pocket and picking up a flute from tha
bed, and this while you were in a dark room with a wall between you ? "
Answer 5.—"Yes."
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance, 81
Question 6.—"Did she describe your house and tell you Andrew was there
when you thought he was away, and, if so, was he actually at home as
she stated ? "
Answer 6.—" Yes."
Question 7.—"Prom what you saw, were you satisfied that Fannie had,
when mesmerised, powers of imparting knowledge unknown to others
about her 1 "
Answer 7.—" Yes."
Wm. Howaiid.
Kismet, Tenn., Morgan Co.
" We testify to these questions, asked Wm. Howard, to be facts. We
were present at the same time Mr. Howard was when Miss G. was mesmerised
by Dr. A. S. Wiltse. We further state that when any of us would prick the
doctor with a pin, she would flinch with the same part of her body. , Miss
G. was not in the habit of the use of tobacco. The doctor was in a different
room, with a wall between them. When he would smoke, she grew nause
ated and seemed to taste the same as he did.
" W. T. Howard and Lizzie Howard."
With this case, which, if the saddle was correctly located by Fannie,
carries us beyond clairvoyance of facts known to anyone, I must
conclude the present paper. In an Appendix I give the remaining
evidence about "Jane," and some further cases sent to the Society for
Psychical Research, but which, on account of remoteness and depend
ence on the memory of a single individual, seem to attain a lower
evidential standard than those I have already quoted.
In the next number of the Proceedings we hope to print a paper by
Dr. Alfred Backman, of Kalmar, Sweden, on some experiments in clair
voyance of his own. Besides the evidence thus sent to the Society for
Psychical Research, and not hitherto published, there is a considerable
amount of evidence for clairvoyance of the type discussed in the present
paper, published in various books and pamphlets, and in the Zoist and
other periodicals devoted to mesmerism. This I shall hope to review
on some future occasion, as in attempting to form a judgment on the
subject, it is important to have all the available evidence before us. •
I hope also in a future paper to discuss the evidence for other types
of clairvoyance, especially for clairvoyance of facts unknown to any-
human being.
a
82 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
APPENDIX.
Further Evidence about Jane.
Remainder of Dr. F.'s Notes.
Experiment III.
I was determined on this occasion to give her no leading questions, and
at the same time in no manner to cheat or deceive her. After the sleep
was produced, I said : " We are on a railway, and can see a large building
like a mill ; where is it ? " " Is it a mill for grinding food ? " she replied. I
said, " Yes. Can you find by what means the mill is made to work ? Is it a
wind-mill ? " " No. " "Is it the water that turns the mill 1 " " No, it is
a steam-mill." I may here remark that the mill is placed by the side of a
stream which near it communicates with the River Tyne. She then asked,
"May we go into the mill ? " and upon my giving her leave, she described
the noise of the machinery, the flour-dust falling like snow, the miller, in
white, standing by a "poke," and was proceeding in her account of the
interior of the building when I stopped her, and told her to leave the mill
and enter the house near it. "Is it the small house ? " she asked. I told
her " No," it was the larger house that I desired her to look into. She said,
" Is it this with the garden in front ? " "Yes," I replied, " with the large
garden," for I was under the false impression that the garden was of con
siderable size. "No, the garden is a small one, and just in front of the
house," was the answer ; and then, as usual, she asked, "May we go in?"
She said a gentleman lived in the house, but directly afterwards corrected
herself, and remarked he was not a gentleman, but that a gentleman had
formerly lived in it. She now seemed very much puzzled, her face accur
ately expressing the perplexity of her mind. "Why did the gentleman
leave this pretty house?" "There is something very strange about this
house. I can't understand this." "Can we not tell we what it is that is so
strange here ? " "Can we not tell we why this gentleman went away?"
""Oh, yes, it is something about a lady." " Can it be this gentleman's wife
who died here, and thus caused him to leave it 1" All these questions she
asked rapidly and in an excited manner, very different from her ordinary
calm bearing when in the mesmeric state. At last she said, in a low tone,
"Now we see it was not this gentleman's wife, for she's alive ; it was a vision
that frightened him away." " The lady was only a vision." "Do we believe
in visions ? " " We don't like to believe in visions, dowel" " Tell we why
the vision came to the gentleman." " Had he done anything wicked to the
lady?" I now told her that I brought her to that house for the purpose
of finding out why the lady haunted that house, and she must not be lazy,
but find out the cause. She replied, "We are not lazy, but the lady is
not there now, but if we will tell we where to find her, we will go and
look for it."
As this was a request with which I had no means of complying, I said she
had better go back to the time when the gentleman lived in the house. She
directly answered, "Yes, we will." "Now I see the gentleman has a wife
and a family, and I see the vision standing before him ; but why does it
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 83
make these noises ? Why does it now frighten them all ? and why does it
frighten the servants in that way so that the gentleman is forced to leave ?
She thinks he has no right to be there, but why has he no right to be there ?
It cannot be an angel of light, can it ? It must be an angel of darkness, and
to find out an angel of darkness we will have to go a long way, to a bad place. "
I said she had better find out the gentleman himself. She immediately said,
"Shall we go again upon the railway ? Now we have come to a large town.
Shall we go up the road to this little village i" Finding by her description
that she had passed the house, I replied, "No, you must go back again the
same road ; you are a little too far." "Then may we go into this house,"
she exclaimed, "with a little lodge and a garden V I again told her she was
too far, for the house I recognised by her description is one a few hundred
yards beyond the one I wished her to go to. "Now we have got to the right
house, " she remarked, " and we see the gentleman, but why does he wear
his hat in this way ? and what a wide brim it is, and he is saying, ' We are
much obliged to thee, friend, ' and ' I hope thou art well. ' Why does he say
thee and thou ? we don't like that way of speaking, do we ? But he looks a
kind gentleman. I don't see why the vision should have come to him." She
continued her description of a member of the Society of Friends, and so
accurately described the peculiarities of the gentleman that no one who
knew him could doubt who was meant, but as she seemed now tired, I
stopped her for the present, and she fell into a short sleep.
Knowing that a public meeting was to be held that evening, and being
sure that she had never in her life been in that street in which it was
intended to hold it, I determined to test her powers by means of it. I there
fore said as soon as she awoke, "We are standing by some railings with some
trees within them ; now we pass through an opening, with a house on one
side and a wall on the other, and before us, at some little distance, is a
house with a portico." She immediately said, " Shall we go in ?" " But
there is a glass door ; shall we go through it ? " " Here is a lady sitting in
a room; is she a lady ? " I replied, " I want you to go upstairs and turn
into the room on the left-hand side." She slowly answered, with some
expression of amazement, " What ! this room? It is a very pretty room; very
pretty indeed. But what is the matter ? What are so many people doing
here ? And here is Mr. Fraser ; what can he be doing here? Is it about the
church ? Is it about the Bible ? " The gentleman she had detected in the
crowd being known to her as the minister, she had, no doubt, imagined
from his presence that such must be the subject of the meeting ; but I told
her not to be lazy, but find out why the meeting was held. "One man," she
said, "is speaking, but it is neither about church nor Bible ; we can't under
stand him. It is humbug. And he talks so much about himself, does he not ?
He is a very vulgar man ; but there are many very vulgar-looking men in the
room, and what a noise they are making." This experiment had lasted so long
that she looked tired, and having, before sitting down, complained of head
ache, I feared to continue it, lest she might be worse afterwards. I, therefore,
at this stage, released her by the ordinary means.
In order to understand the first of the experiments of this evening's sit
ting I must now explain that about four miles from North Shields—visible
from the Newcastle and North Shields Railway—is a steam mill, and near it a.
a 2
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
house with a garden in front, and some cottages. This house was inhabited
some years ago by a gentleman of the Society of Friends (Mr. Procter),
who eventually left it on account of the annoyance of what was and is still
supposed to be a ghost. As I am no more a believer in spirits than I was in
clairvoyance, I may merely mention that forty different persons now alive
have stated that at different times they have seen this appearance, and in every
case, except two or three, it had the form of a lady. Besides, however, the
visionary appearances, the noises in the house were most troublesome, the
articles of furniture being often violently thrown about. The gentleman left
the house, and the noises and the vision have gradually disappeared. Her
description of his present residence was in every respect correct. It will, no
doubt, occur to many that the clairvoyante had in this case been aware of the
whole affair, but let anyone consider the improbability of her catching at
i nice, without reflection, the very place I desired her to examine from the
very slight hint I gave her. I have since ascertained that she had only
once—and that some years ago—been upon this railway, and it is unlikely
that upon that occasion she would observe this particular mill so as to be able
at present so minutely to describe it. Mills near railways are not uncommon,
and if she had merely guessed, it is probable that she would at once have
imagined the place to be some mill near some railroad to which she was.
accustomed. But admitting that she had formerly seen the mill and house,
as she rolled rapidly along the line—for it is only visible at one point of the
railroad—and that the whole story had been related to her, how was a
stranger, living in a little street miles from Shields, able to find out the
present residence of the gentleman, and accurately to describe him ? Add
to these considerations the surprise that she manifested when afterwards
told about it, and her denial of ever having heard about the haunted
house, and few can reject the belief that there was no trick at all about
the case.
The second case is still clearer. Mr. Lindsay is one of the candidates to
represent the borough of Tynemouth in Parliament. He came down un
expectedly on Saturday night, and bills were then issued, calling a meeting
wherein ho intended addressing the electors on Monday. She, I have ascer
tained, only left the house upon the Sunday, and walked along the road for a
few minutes, and it is in the highest degree improbable that she would there
.see the announcement. I have also ascertained that she was never in her life
in the street in which the meeting was held, and that she knows nothing of
the town at all, and my description of the Assembly Room was so vague that
few who have lived in Shields all their lives could have guessed it. To show
the truth of this, a gentleman who had been for many years resident in
Shields, and who was protesting strongly against clairvoyance, was asked the
following question : "Supposing I say to you, We are standing beside some
rails, with trees within them ; we now go through an opening, and see a house
with a portico in front of us—what is that house ? " Without hesitation he
immediately mentioned a house in the opposite end of the town.
Experiment IV.
July 19th, 1853.
On Thursday she arrived at Shields by train. She was longer than usual
in becoming somnolent, and the first words she exclaimed were, "Why is
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 86
that girl troubling us so much ? " This she frequently repeated. The word
" girl " she always applies to herself, and the above expression is used when
she is not likely to be lucid. She looked tired and anxious, and throughout
the sitting was not so clear as on former occasions.
I had procured some handwriting of Lieutenant Pym, R.N., now in the
searching expedition of Sir John Franklin, but not being acquainted either
with the gentleman himself or the residence of his relations, I was very
doubtful of her discovering his whereabouts. I placed the writing in her
hands and asked where the gentleman was who wrote that. She re
plied, " The gentleman who wrote this to us—what does he want us to do ?
Is it about a sick person—is that it ? " I again said, " You must discover
for yourself where he is and what he wants." She answered, " Let us go
by the railway to the large town, and into this house, and see what he wants. "
I replied, as she seemed in great doubt and hesitation, " You had better
look abroad for him. Go across the sea and look." " Yes," she answered ;
" but what has he gone here for, amongst all these strange people, and this
grand place 1 Is he going to fight ? Is this the reason of his coming here !
We don't understand what these people say ; they don't speak our language."
I asked if it was France, and she answered that she had been here before,
formerly, and she believed it was France. I should here mention that, as
many will remember, Lieutenant Pym planned his Siberian Expedition im
mediately before going in the searching squadron, and travelled on the
,Continent in prosecution of his plan, but at the time I did not remember
this, and therefore told her to look where he was at the present time. She
said he was in a very strange country, where everyone was dressed differently
from here. I asked whether it was a hot or cold country. She answered,
" Very cold indeed," and grasping me tightly by the hand requested me not
to leave her in that desolate region. I, at this stage, requested a lady who
was in the room to copy down all her words, which was done. '' What has
Ijrought the gentleman here ? " I asked. " Has he' gone to discover some
thing ? " was the reply ; "we don't like to look at him. He has got a cat
jacket and cap on ; we don't like to touch him." She always in this state
expresses a great dislike to fur, and calls it cat-skin. " We see the vessel.
All those about him have the same sort of jackets. Is it bear-skin they have
on ? He is a fine-looking man, all fur. This is a very white-looking place.
It is all white. He is middle-sized, with darkish hair, but he is so covered up
with cat-skin that we can only see a part of him. This is not like we's water ;
we can walk upon it. Why have they come to such a place as this i It is
winter here. Some of the men are running along. " "What is the name of the
vessel ? " I inquired. She spelt A. R., but would go no further ; she then
said, " We will spell the gentleman's name. It is a short name." I said that
P was the first letter, but she could not finish it. " Has he come to seek
somebody ? " she asked. " What is he so intent upon ? Is it to go further
he thinks so much about ?" "He had better, we think, stay where he is,
for he will never find what he is looking for." " Is it a vessel and a gentle
man he is looking for 1 "
[Some further details of the same kind followed here.]
86 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
Experiment VI.
July 2lst, 1853.—Five minutes to nine, to about 10 minutes to 10 ;
pulse 80.
She was this time mesmerised by a lady who has been in the habit of doing
it for some years, and her lucidity and rapidity of utterance were very strik
ingly increased compared with the uncertain slow manner in which she spoke
when under my influence. This lady we shall call Mrs. B. [Mrs. Fraser].
The process consists in the operator taking Jane's thumbs in her thumb and
forefinger of her opposite hand, and looking steadfastly into her eyes. This
was continued on this occasion for about a minute, when Jane gave a slight
start. Her head then began gradually to fall forward, when the operator
placed her hand above the vertex, moving it gradually backwards. The
head seemed to follow the hand by slightly jerking motions until she became
quite erect in the chair. Mrs. B. then asked, " Is that we's light ? Can we
see well with it ? "
[Some details are here omitted.]
Here she again slept. "Let us go out again," said she, upon awakening.
" What are we thinking of now ? " asked Mrs. B. " Where shall we go ? "
replied Jane. "Shall we come back here again?" " Yes,"returned Mrs.
B., "we promised to come back to this place same sun, so we must keep our
promises." "Shall we look at it?" was the answer. "What is it ? What do
you call it?" " Is it a vision?" Mrs. B. replied. "No, that is not the
name ; we don't like it. Why can't we get hold of the word, of we's own
we's word ? It is haunted house. What an ugly word. Why do we want
to look again?" "We said," answered Mrs. B., "that we would go into it."
"We don't care for it, do we ? " replied Jane. "It looks like a vision. It is.
a lady." " What is it like ? " asked the operator. "It has a face, but not
like we's face. It is very white, but she moves about so quick ; she has eyes,
but no sight in them; she is like a shadow." "Has it a name in its head?"
asked Mrs. B. "No, she has no name and no brains : she is just like a
shadow, and flits about so quickly from place to place. We don't care about
the lady. We want to go into the house and downstairs. AVe want to go
into the cellar. Is there a way to the sea in this house ? We will go down
stairs into the lowest part and take a candle. We are not a coward. We
will examine and find a place to the sea. Let us look—there is a cellar.
Could not the gentleman examine the cellar? He must have stronger people
than we to look into them, we are too weak. We can't see any place of
concealment. Tell him to bring somebody to look down. There must be a
place of concealment. Like it ran down to the sea, and people came up for
some bad purpose. It seems like something about the sea. We'll tell the
gentleman with the broad hat about this. We's not afraid, there must be
something concealed there, and it might be found out in this cellar, and we
will come and help him. Let us go to the gentleman." " Would he like to
see we's sleep?" said Mrs. B. "We want this place looked into, and,
mind, not a slight examination, for something will be found there." "Are
they real people, then?" asked Mrs. B. "Well, she is a strange one, and
walks about so quietly." "Has it spoken?" said the operator. "Yes it
has spoken. But there are so many, there are two or three kinds of animals.
We's only a coward after all." "What are the animals like?" inquired
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 87
Mrs. B. "We won't be afraid," was the reply. "Do we like to look?
One is like a monkey, and another like a dog. Had the lady dogs and
monkeys ? They go all about the house. She has got funny things, has she
not ? We don't like her. What is that other one ? Do we know what we
call it ? It is not a pussy, it runs very fast, and gets amongst feet. It is a
rabbit, but a very quick one." "Are they real animals?" said Mrs. B.
"We don't touch them to see," replied she; "we would not like a bite.
What a very violent woman she is. She wants to stay all alone in that
house, but we can't see into her, she is so strange. We have never seen her
eat any supper nor anything else." "Has she a name in her head?" inquired
Mrs. B. "No, she has no brains. She is now going upstairs, and it is so
dark. She has no light with her, but we have light." " Are the animals
with her now ? " said Mrs. B. " No, they are not. She is all white : it is
loose, not a dress like we's, but something loose thrown over her. She dis
turbs everybody." " Why don't they catch her? " asked Mrs. B. "Because
she moves so quickly. But the mischief is in the cellar, and tell the gentle
man to look there."
[Here again she slept.]
Upon awakening she said, "We won't have her for ours." "Is she
always the same ? " inquired the operator. " We will look," was the reply.
"Now she is coming downstairs again to go her rounds. She makes we
feel cold. Now she is as dark as the devil. It is very strange ; we don't
like her." "Look and see what her dress is like," said Mrs. B. " We will.
It is not like we, for it is all dark. Where have we seen anything like it before ?
It is not like we's English ladies' dress. Where has she got that ? It is like
the dress we saw in foreign countries—a Spanish lady kind of dress. They
are rich things she has on ; it rustles like silk. Is it not strange ? She is
just like a devil."
[A few more details followed.]
Experiment IX.
Jvly mh or 29th, 1853.
She was again sent to see the " haunted house," when she said she saw
the figure of a man who also troubled them. Mrs. B. asked her if it was
not a real man she saw. Could it not be the person who now lived there ?
but she said, ' ' No, it is a vision ; he has no brains in his head ; he looks
very fierce, his eyes flash like a torn cat's—like a tiger's ; he has a white
dress on like a surplice. Oh, how angry he is ! he is so indignant at being
disturbed ; he does not want the gentleman to find out what he is there for.
It is the man who makes the noises in the house ; he goes stamping about.
We did not like the woman, but the man is far worse. Oh, how angry he
is ! What a commotion there is in the cellar ! They have not made the
hole large enough ; it is not close enough to the wall. They must make a
wide, deep hole close to the wall, and they should take down the wall." Mrs.
B. said, " But perhaps the house will fall if they take the wall down." She
replied, " Never mind, if they only find it out." She said that the woman
walked about with her hands upon her breast as if in pain ; but the man goes
stamping about very angry. " Oh ! how indignant he is that the gentleman
is digging in the cellar."
88 Mrs. H. Sidywick.
She was also taken to St. Paul's Cathedral, which she described most
accurately. Upon first entering she seemed amazed at the beauty of the
building, and said, " What a number of beautiful figures ! These are not
visions, these are made of marble." She also described the scutcheons, and
the stained glass windows, and the Communion, &c., &c. She also said
there was a large gallery that went all round, and that there was a sound in
it. It was not music, but a sound which went all round inside the wall.
She said there were no queer monkish-looking men here, as she saw in St.
Peter's at Rome. Those were Popish we's ; she did not like Popish we's ;
but she saw a clergyman go into the pulpit. It was not we's clergyman. She.
also seemed very much to admire some of the fine old oak carving and a
picture.
Mrs. Fraser's Recollections.
In the year 1845, I first became acquainted with "Jane." She was a
great invalid, not able to leave her bed, but was propped up with pillows,
and made a little money by needlework. One day, when I called to see her,
I was told by her sister that I could not see her as the infirmary doctor had
just mesmerised her. I sent up a message, begging that I might be admitted,
and the doctor consenting I went up. I asked him if he never tried any
experiments. " No," he replied, " I have promised her not. " On waking,
I asked her consent. So the next day I took with me a phrenological head.
Dr. Maltby went to the closet and ate something. He returned to " Jane,"
and placing his finger on " gustativeness," asked what he was eating. " It
is sugar." He ate something else. " What am I eating 1 " She showed
great disgust, and said, " Not good." He whispered to me, " I have a pill
in my mouth."
Next visit I proposed we should try if she was a clairvoyante, and asked
Mr. M. to take her to our house and find out what I had been doing that
morning. She found the house and went into the parlour, and there seemed to
see me in an armchair with my feet on the tender, &e., and a large book
upon my knee. She was quite correct. Then she was taken to the infirmary
and accurately described one of the wards, and particularly mentioned a
soldier who was in one of the beds. After this, Mr. M. took her to other
places, but as it was not convenient for him to continue to give her the sleep
I took his place. I think it was as soon as I was left alone with her that I
thought I would try another experiment. I found that she ate very little,
had no appetite, and took no butcher's meat, so I thought I would get her to
eat whilst in the sleep. Consequently I took some thin slices of cold roast
beef, and when she was quite over I got her to eat some, but before she had
finished I heard Dr. Trotter downstairs, so I awoke her, first of all hiding
the rest of the meat and bread. When he came up, amongst other questions
he asked if she had eaten any breakfast 1 and she said " No." Whereupon
I said, '' Oh, Jane, how can you say so when you have been eating both meat
and bread ? " and then I pulled out the remnant of her feast. Great was
her surprise, and of course Dr. Trotter was astonished also.
Dr. Trotter was the physician for the infirmary of which Jane was an
outdoor patient. He was out at dinner, one day, with Mr. Williamson, of
Gateshead, brother of Sir Hedworth Williamson, and the conversation turned
upon mesmerism, and Mr. Williamson said at one time he had ridiculed it,
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance, 89
I>ut that a short while before meeting Dr. Trotter he was in Paris with some
other friends, and one very wet day, just to amuse themselves, they proposed
to try and mesmerise the cook, and to their great surprise they were quite
successful, and went on to mention some more particulars. So Dr. Trotter
told him of a patient of his who could not sleep, and it was arranged that
Mr. Williamson should accompany him on the following day, and put her
into the mesmeric sleep. This was done, and then Mr. Maltby, the house
surgeon, was taught how to put her over, and it was found that from that day
she began to sleep at night.
At that time Mr. Williamson knew nothing about clairvoyance. Some
months after he came to Durham, and called upon us in order to try and
mesmerise Mr. Green, and I took the opportunity of telling him about
" Jane's " powers. He said, " I believe in mesmerism, but not in clair
voyance." He had been arranging for Jane to go and stay with him for
some time that he might be able to mesmerise her, and I thought he
would soon find out for himself whether what I had told him was true or
not, so I said nothing, and she went, and as I expected, the first time he
mesmerised her she began with her usual question, "Where shall we go
this sun ? " First, of course, expressing surprise at the new "we" she had
got. " It is not Miss Eliza we, and it is not our black we " (that was Jane's
sister). " What we is it? " Afterwards she called him her " very own we."
As she was determined to go somewhere, he asked where she would go ?
and she answered along the road. She seemed in a short time to see two
cottages, and said, "May we go into this cottage?" and to the great
astonishment of Mr. Williamson she told him about all the inmates. Now,
as she was an utter stranger in that neighbourhood, he knew quite well
that she could have no acquaintance with these cottagers, and from that time
was a believer in her wonderful powers of clairvoyance, and took her to one
place after another, frequently to the House of Commons. She took quite a
fancy to some of the members, saying, "Ah, there is we Shott " (a personal
friend of Mr. Williamson), "and there is we's"—mentioning the names of
other gentlemen whom I cannot just now remember. Mr. Williamson took
her now and again to some place of entertainment, and she greatly enjoyed
being at Astley's, and laughed heartily at seeing the tricks of the clown, and
expressed much surprise at seeing the horses jump through hoops.
Mr. Williamson had a lady staying with him whose name I quite forget ;
he was mesmerising her for her health, and he began to try if she also was
a clairvoyante, and found she was, and a very eerie effect was produced upon
me some months after,when I had Jane asleep in our own house, by her say
ing, after one of the little sleeps which she had begun to take in the course of
the seance, "Do we know that the lady we is here 1 Our very own we has
brought her to see we, they went first to the girl's ' Jane's ' house, and then
came here."
One day I asked Jane what was the cause of her being able to do such
wonderful things as to see into people's minds, and so on. She answered by
'" Lectricity." She spoke in a very childish manner when asleep, cutting
short her words.
It was very extraordinary the insight she seemed to have into the charac
ter of those persons she saw ; for instance, when visiting one gentleman who
90 Mrs. H. &idgwicl:
lived at some distance, and who had never been mentioned to her, she said
at once, " This is a backslider." When she was taken to see the missionary,
Mr. Moffat, she said, "Now this is one of the most unselfish men we ever
saw." It was very interesting to find that when she visited these far-off
places she noticed the different trees to what she had seen at home, and she
certainly felt either great heat or great cold. I especially remember one
day, when she asked to get away from Africa, she was so hot, and seemed to
rejoice in the cool breezes of the sea. She also seemed to feel the scent of
flowers.
I forget the year when Isabella, Queen of Spain, was married, but we
several times saw her at the time the marriage was talked about, and Jane
expressed great sorrow for her, saying she wished to marry someone else,
and was crying. One day she was playing with the tassel of my silk apron
in her sleep when suddenly she said, "That is a nice tassel, but nothing to
what we's little Queen has ; it is a gilt one." I asked her why she had never
mentioned it before, and she answered quite crossly, "Do we think we tell
everything we see ? "
One of the peculiarities of her sleep is that time seems to be nowhere
with her ; she will tell you of something which seems to be taking place at
the time she mentions it, and you find afterwards that it occurred some
hours previously. For instance, when she was here about twelve years ago,
I took her, at the request of a lady present, to see her sisters in Edin
burgh. She found the house, described the furniture and ornaments in the
drawing-room, and a lady not very young, then she added, " But there is a
young lady here, the other lady is her aunt." My friend was sure this was a
mistake, for her niece had been very ill, and unable for many weeks to visit
her aunt. However, she wrote to her sister in Edinburgh, and asked her,
" Have you seen our niece lately 1 " The answer came that her niece was so
much better that she had been to see them on the morning of such a day ;
that was the very day when Jane had seen her, only it was some hours
after the real time.
Some people have said Jane only knew what the person knew who gave
her the sleep. This was a very great mistake, as was proved on one occasion
in a very remarkable manner. My eldest brother had a friend staying with
him, a young gentleman from Northumberland. He wished her to be taken
to his father's house. To the best of my powers I took her there, when, to
my utter consternation, she began to express the greatest horror of my
taking her to such a house, the master was such a wicked* man, and had, if I
remember aright, hanged himself in an out-house of the farm. Mr. Rae,
however, soon put me at ease by saying I had got to the wrong house. What
Jane had mentioned was all true of what had taken place at a short distance
from his father's house.
There were many peculiarities about Jane's sleep. For instance, she
always said she must have a good light for what she was to go and see, and
this light she got by the mesmeriser placing both hands on either side of her
head. She was sometimes taken to see invalids, and in more than one
case advised what medicine should be given, and it was always the right one
for the disease.
Mr. Williamson had a friend called Dr. Meyer ; ho often took Jane to see
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 91
him, and once she had a good deal of trouble, as he had left the place where
Mr. Williamson took her ; but eventually she got upon his track, and found
him at some watering-place in Germany.
My sister-in-law reminds me that one day when Dr. F. was not present,
she said in her sleep that he was very sorry for the girl, and was going to give
her some money, and that a short while afterwards, without his knowing that
she had said so, he gave her £2.
With regard to the excavations made by Mr. Procter at Willington,
nothing was discovered.
I am sorry I did not make notes at the time, for I find I have forgotten so
many things, and more wonderful things than those I have related.
Eliza Fraser.
12, Moray-place, Crosshill, Glasgow.
An Incident Recalled by the Rev. C. Green.
Mr. Charles Green was interested in a lady in London, and asked that
Jane should be sent to the house, to find out what was going on there. She
discovered the house, went upstairs, and, to her horror, found that the young
lady was dead, and the corpse laid out. Then she said, " What is this that
they are bringing in—the coffin 1 " Then she went and looked at the plate
upon it, and read aloud the girl's name and age. She then made the remark ::
" The family is in great sorrow, but they sorrow not as those without hope,"
and "they want Mr. Charles to officiate at the funeral. He will get a letter
in the morning, as they 'have written to him."
Next day, the letter came announcing her death, and requesting Mr,
Charles to go to the funeral.
Charles Green,
Vicar of St. Paul's, Beckenham.
Further Statement by Mrs. T. Myers.
May, 1884.
Mrs. S. D. Wills remembers, when a girl, being present when I gave
" Jane " the sleep, and we went to seek my father and mother who were in
London. We did not know when to expect them home, so we sent her to
find out. She said they were busy packing up and we should see them home
next day. And certainly they arrived. Mrs. S. D. Wills only saw Jane a.
few times and was much struck with her correctness.
Once, when disinclined to trouble with Jane and having to give her the
sleep for the good of her health, I told her she must take a tour in Scotland,
by herself, and enjoy the scenery. My mind was far away when, suddenly,
she said, " What is this 1 " I answered, "How do I know 1 I do not know
where 'we' is." Angrily, "Don't 'we' know 'we' is travelling in Scot
land?" "Well, where are 'we' now?" "'We' see a castle." "Find
out its name, for I have no idea where ' we ' has wandered to. " She said,
" ' We' is on a steamboat, and 'we' know now it is Dumbarton Castle ! "
In the sleep she sees and enjoys very much all the beauties of nature, and
also enters into all the amusement of a walk, in Scarboro' on the See-Saw,
Hyde Park, and other gay scenes at home and abroad. She visited the
Exhibition of 1862, long before I went up to it, and she described the
entrance-door, near the Golden Obelisk, and was much struck with the size
92 Mr<s. H. Sidgwick,
and beauty of the latter ; and then she walked about and enjoyed herself
very much. She made me promise to go and see Emanuel's jewellery and
Minton's china, and gave me directions where to find their cases. I found
she had been most correct in her description, even to sets of jewels and
china, selecting the most beautiful to her thinking. She had never read
anything about the Exhibition or been told anything, for Jane is in lowly
life and does not hear what is going on in London or elsewhere.
Recollections of "Jane's" Sister.
May 13th, 1884.
Dear Mrs. Myers,—I am sorry that I cannot remember much about
my sister Jane being put into the sleep. I remember once when I had her
in the sleep (we being upstairs at the time) a gentleman came in downstairs,
when she said, "Who is that?" I said I did not know, and she at once
said, " Didn't we know the dark gentleman 1 " I did not know; she then
held up her fingers and spelt his name, which turned out to be quite correct.
On another occasion sister Bessie had been out making purchases, and when
she returned Jane named all the articles that Bessie had got in the basket,
while I knew nothing that she had got in the basket.
I also remember on one occasion when Mr. Williamson had her in the
sleep, she gave a very beautiful and correct description of St. Peter's
Church at Rome. I know of my own knowledge that when she was out of
the sleep she knew nothing about the church at Rome. I should have been
glad if I had remembered more to have acquainted you with it, but as it hap
pened so long ago the particulars have almost escaped my memory.
I know nothing of the clergyman at Whickham, but I remember Mr.
Williamson had a nephew, a clergyman at Darlington, some years ago (perhaps
20 years ago), but I seem to have lost sight of them all years ago.
I heard from Jane yesterday, and she is still very poorly ; and as regards
myself I feel that I am getting old and feeble, but I have much to be thank
ful for, as I have a comfortable home.
Charlotte Hope.
Notes of an Interview with "Jane," by Mrs. Russell.
July 22)i(7, 1883.
"Let us go and see 'Katie.' Is she up?" " Yes, and she is a great deal
better ; but they should not speak to her so much, they will weary her.
Someone is speaking to her with a hat on, I do not know who it is."
"Well, look into the back of her heart, and tell us ; get the spelling-book. "
"Bella," was said in a minute, and then she tried to spell and pronounce
Bainbrige, which she did not quite correctly.
"Why did Katie's friends not meet her at the train last night?"
"Because they did not know she was coming." " But I sent them a post
card in time." "They got no word (emphatically) but it does not matter
now, she is all right."
"Katie" had travelled with Mrs. F. the day before, and being a great
invalid, her friends were asked to meet her. Bella Bainbridge was my
servant, who was acquainted with "Katie," and was with her at the very
time ; she had on a hat. When she returned an hour or two after, she
reported to Mrs. F. that " Katie " was much better. Her friends were
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 93
much surprised to see her having got no worse. Mrs. "Jane" C. was
familiar with Bella's Christian name, having often seen her, but did not
know her surname.
"Let us now go to Edinburgh, where we have never been, and look for
Merchiston-road, and a house called Redfern, and see the gentleman who
lives there." (After a pause.) "A large house." (This was said in an
inquiring tone.) "Yes," said Mrs. F., "and let us go in, and see if he
is a bachelor or married." Mrs. "Jane" C. apparently did not hear or
take it up properly, for in a moment she said in a reproachful tone, '' How-
did you say he was a bachelor—there is a lady and children ? " She then
seemed a little put out, and said, "But may we go in, does ice know them?"
(She always said "we.") "Well—we know their friends, at least." She then
said " They are Mr. Russell's friends." "Yes," and then looking at me,
"Who are we looking at?" "Mr. Russell's lady." Then in a moment,
"The gentleman is Mrs. Russell's brother." "Look and tell us anything
you can see." "The gentleman has something on his mind—he is troubled
about something." "Well, see if you can find out what it is." (After a
pause.) " He has a sick child,—no not a child, a daughter—he is very kind
—she has been ill a long time." " See if you can find what is the matter."
"It is the same as the young gentleman" (a young man very ill with his
lungs, whom she had been lately taken to see), " but she is not nearly so ill,
she is better at present ; but the heat tries her." (I think it was at this time
she said, " She is lying down to rest.") "Now look if we can do her any
good." "No, they can do her more good than we can—they has tried
everything—the gentleman is very kind." " Tell us what other children you
see." "Boys." "Anything about them?" " They's none of them very
strong—not that they's ill, no, no, only they's not particularly strong, one of
them is like 'we's'boy." This, we understood, referred to John, suffering
like Arthur, from asthma.
" Now we shall take another walk—to Morningside Bank—and sea
whether ladies or gentlemen live there. Have we come to the house ? "
" Yes, there are no gentlemen, and none of the ladies are very young—
and they have no mamma ? Are they not Mrs. Russell's sisters ? " " Now,
let us go to the drawing-room." " Oh, what a pretty room, so pretty !
There is a lady working ; she is a nice lady, but very particular ; she likes
things all right." " Is there more than one lady ? " " There are two ladies
—one a younger one." "Well, are they mother and daughter— or sisters—
or what relation are they to each other ? " " They are aunt and niece ; the
young lady is the gentleman's daughter, and she has come to see her aunt."
I think she added something about her (the young one) resting, but
about this time she became confused, and in an upbraiding tone, complained
to Mrs. F. that she (Mrs. F.) was stupid, and did not let her sleep
enough. Mrs. F. replied, "Oh, yes, I am stupid. Now take a sleep,"
and let her alone for a minute or two, saying to me (Mrs. Russell), "The fact
is I am very tired."
"Now tell us anything particular you see—look round the room—is there
anything on the mantelshelf?" "Yes, a pretty clock—very pretty."
" What is it like ? " " It is "—here she began to try and spell something :
"no—m—1," apparently expecting Mrs. F. to help her, and annoyed
Mrs. H. Sidgwwk.
-when she ditl not. And then she said, " It is all gold." " Look round the
,walls—do you see anything 1 " "Oh, yes, brackets, with things on them like
Miss Anna's room" (Mrs. F.'s sister). "What is the carpet like?"
" Pretty, pretty, with roses, and so soft ; not like ice's carpet." (Mrs. F.'s
,carpet is quite old.) "Now tell us if any of the ladies do any particular
work." " One of them cuts out things." " Is it out of wood 1" " Yes, and
she thinks so much of them, she thinks them beautiful ; she is a very nice
lady, but particular about keeping her things right. She has a little room
where she works."
I forgot to say that both at Redfern and Morningside Bank she seemed n
little uncomfortable about going in, saying, at Morningside, "But does we
know them ?—the lady is not pleased with we going in." She invariably used
the word "we" when in the mesmeric state. The question, " Can we do her
any good ? " refers to her having twice said that to use the " passes " upon
invalids would do them good. One of the parties was "Katie," on whom
they had been tried, and with much success. When spelling any name she
spoke of the "spelling-book."
(M. 371.) Experiments by Mr. Theophilus Criswick with Miss R.
Swansea, June 16th, 1884.
" I was the engineer of the Plymouth Iron Works, Merthyr Tydvil, and
left in 1864. It was some few years previous (I should think from 1853 to
1858) that circumstances or inclination induced my devoting some attention
to satisfy myself as to whether some (so-called) mesmeric phenomena were
true or not.
*****
" I tried to send some persons to sleep, <fcc, by gazing into their eyes, by
passes from the head downwards, &c., and found several sensitive. . . .
One of those that was susceptible to the influence was a Miss R. After
falling into the so-called mesmeric sleep, it was easy to induce her to talk, to
get up, &c, and in her, as well as others, I was always struck by the improve
ment of expression during the sleep.
"Upon one occasion she was seated, and an aunt of mine coming in
front of her, a decided shudder took place. On inquiring the cause I was
told ' She looked so nasty,' and further inquiry convinced me that the one
asleep looked into or perhaps through a living person. I am not sure
whether it was then or subsequently, but we were in the same room, which
was a kind of room used for meals, and Miss R. was asleep, that I asked
my aunt to go into the front room (fitted up more as a drawing-room), and
do whatever she had any inclination to. This was done, and Miss R.
correctly described what was done. Now, taking a direct line from where
Miss R. was, and the place where my aunt was doing, there were three brick
partitions of 6in., and a stone wall of 20in., at least, say a yard of (so-called)
solid material interposed. Perhaps I should say that several things very
unusual were done by my aunt ; for instance, the placing of a chair on the
table, and changing its position there, turning a picture on the wall, &c., the
whole of which were accurately described to me whilst being done. Pray
remember that my object being for investigation only, and having no
interest to serve in any way—conscious there was no collusion—I was com
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 95
pelled to believe she had either Been through a yard of wall or was able
to say what was fact, even if the means used were more wonderful than look
ing through what was interposed.
"Several tests of other phenomena were also made with the same per
son. If I put anything in my mouth, she imitated mastication, &c, and
described the taste. Putting a tasteless (or nearly tasteless) substance in
my mouth, and thinking of the taste of another thing, she would describe
the taste as that of the substance thought of, or without placing anything in
my mouth, the taste of anything desired would be stated.
" I also found she could detect a wineglass of water, although put in
any position with others precisely similar, provided I made some so-called
passes down it after filling. Interrogated as to the difference in taste (for it
was by that only she often said she detected it), her words were that it tasted
pleasanter."
Mr. Criswick forwarded to Mr. Gurney a paper of testimonials, of which
the following is a specimen :—
"Duffryn, Aberdare, October 1st, 1878.
"I have long known Mr. Theophilus Criswick, C.E., who was long the
trusted agent of the late Mr. Anthony Hill, of the Plymouth Iron Works,
Merthyr, and who in that capacity acquired great experience in all that
appertains to the work of a surveyor. I believe him to be a man not only
of great practical knowledge and ability, but of high character.
" Aberdare."
(M. 1,900.) Experiments by Mr. Glover with G. F.
We are indebted to Mr. J. J. T. Glover, of 124, Stephen's Green,
Dublin, an Associate of the S.P.R., for the following account of some
experiments of his own, which he wrote out at the request of Professor
Barrett, on February 9th, 1885. The incidents themselves occurred, he tells
us, about fifteen years earlier.
"On another occasion, one evening, about 8 or 9 o'clock, at a rather
numerous party, I placed the young man,G. F., in the extreme hypnotic state,
and after several present had tested his insensibility by sticking pins in his
arms and passing a lamp in front of his eyes (the pupils remaining unaffected),
I tried if I could obtain any of the phenomena of clairvoyance.
" Avoiding leading questions, he faithfully described the interiors of the
sleeping rooms of many of those present, and to which he had never had
access, also the show-cards and posters on the platform of the Tralee Station
of the Great Southern and Western Railway, but those he had often observed
in his ordinary condition.
"Someone now proposed to test him by asking for the description of a
locality which he had never seen, and Kingstown, near Dublin, was sug
gested. He had up to this time never been farther from home than Killar-
ney, some twenty miles distant. He gave a perfectly correct delineation of
Kingstown Harbour, piers, mail steamer at station, &c. Directing him to
describe anything further, he answered, 'I see a large vessel coming in.' I
asked for more particulars, and he replied, ' She is too distant. ' I then told
him to take a boat or reach her by any means he liked. Seemingly getting
96 Mrs. H. SUlgwiek.
nearer he continued in a few minutes : ' It is a large ship, and she has
troops on board, I can see the soldiers.' I requested him to ascertain her
name. ' The Hhnallah ' (sic) was his reply, adding that he could not see
very plainly. I encouraged him to try again, and he repeated, ' The
Himallyca, or Him-a-leyah,' each time using a tri-syllabic word as nearly as
possible resembling ' Himalaya.'
"The remarkable circumstance in this case is, that two days afterwards
I read in the IriJi Times of the arrival in Kingstown Harbour, from India,
of the troopship Himalaya, bringing soldiers, &c. It was utterly impossible
for any one present to have had the slightest inkling of this. Certainly I
knew Kingstown well, and as well as I can recollect was aware that there was
such a vessel as the Himalaya, and that she wasemployed as a troopship, but
there all ordinary knowledge ceased. If it was merely a haphazard thought
of mine conceived spontaneously, and in some way transferred to G. F. 's
mind without contact or suggestion, then the coincidence with actual fact was,
to say the least, very remarkable ; but my own impression and that of all
present was that it was an undoubted instance of what is termed clair
voyance.
" In the cases of the contents of rooms, &c, which he had never seen, it
is possible that he became conscious of the thoughts of others through the
mind of the operator, for by no means could anyone communicate by sign,
sound, or otherwise, any idea to him, unless through me, the operator. In
fact the ordinary theory of thought-transference fails to account satisfactorily
for all of the phenomena that are here described. I may mention that
this was the last experiment I tried on G. F., inasmuch as his father called
on me the next day and requested that I would discontinue further investiga
tion. Of course I complied.
* * * *
"J. J. T. Glover."
(M. 319.) Experiments by Mr. H. T. Humphreys with E. Maguire.
66, Doddington-grove, Kennington, November, 1883.
In the year 1852 I frequently mesmerised persons who were in the
employment of Joseph Humphreys and Son (the latter myself), millers, of
Kilmarow Mills, situated in the southern part of the County of Kilkenny,
and about four and a-half miles from Waterford.
One evening I had in my room at the mill Edward Maguire, a man who
had then been employed at the mills for more than 12 years, and was at the
time a night miller, working- at a small mill belonging to us about a mile or
so lower down the stream. He had come in previous to going down to his
night's work. His house, in which he had been sleeping during the day,
was, perhaps, 300 yards more distant from Waterford than the mills in which
my room was.
I put him to sleep, and it then occurred to me to try if he were clairvoyant,
as I had read of the phenomenon, but had never witnessed a case. I asked
him, " Can you go anywhere ? " He replied, "Yes, I can go anywhere." I
said, "You know where Malcolmson's foundry is, on the Newtown road, just
beyond Waterford ? " "Yes," he said, "I am there." " Go on," I said,
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 97
' ' past it till you come to a large house standing in from the road. Next to
this is a row of four houses, and next beyond it is another large house."
"I see it," he said. "Go in," I said, " through the gate. You see to the
left hand a door painted green, leading into the garden behind the house. "
" Yes," he said. " Go through that door and you will find another door on
the left hand into the kitchen," I said. " Go in there. Now, who is there 1 "
" Oh," he said, "there's Mary Doyle and another girl."
Mary Doyle was a girl from the village of Kilmarow, whom he knew very
well, though he could not have seen her for some months, as she had been
for a considerable time cook in that house. The distance between my room
in the mill and this house on the Newtown road was not less than five miles.
I had selected this house that I might be certain of his going into it, as his
seeing this girl would afford me evidence of this, and now finding that he
had reached the right house, I told him to go upstairs and tell me who were
in the parlour.
He told me that sitting round a table in the parlour were a lady of middle
age, who wore a cap, and three young ladies, one of whom wore a very queer
kind of headdress, which came round her face and under her chin, covering
the lower part of the face and also concealing her hair. Further, he saw a
small boy, and a lad, who was reading.
This description was to me satisfactory as representing what I should
expect, save as to two points. I could not think of any lad as likely to be
in the house, and I could by no means understand the queer headdress of
the young lady. As, however, I was so far satisfied that the man could not
have obtained what he had told me by reading my thoughts, and as I did not
think it quite justifiable to pry needlessly into my friends' affairs, I recalled
the man, and shortly afterwards wakened him and sent him on to his work.
Being in Waterford next day, I met the lady of the house to which I had
sent the man on the previous evening, and on asking how they were at home,
she replied :—" Very well, but poor E. has been suffering from toothache,
and had her face tied up all last evening," adding, "W. came down quite
unexpectedly from the school, and spent yesterday evening with us." Even
had I not obtained this information unasked for, I should hardly have liked
to let this lady know that I had sent such a messenger to see her family in
this way. The time was about 6 o'clock, or between that and seven, and the
probability was that the lad would not have left the school before 5 o'clock.
His coming home was unknown to anyone in his mother's house till he
arrived there, and in any case it would not have been possible for the man,
who was in his own house five miles off, to have had any communication with
anyone save it had been through some of my own family. Moreover, he was
ignorant even of the name of any member of the lady's family and had never
known any of them. Although he knew the servant, whom he at once
recognised, he did not know when awake where she was, save that she was
in service somewhere in or about Waterford. Again, if the very improbable
event had occurred of any person from the village having been to the house
mentioned to see Mary Doyle, such an event would at once have become
common gossip in the village, and I should have heard it speedily. Apart
from any such considerations, the man could beforehand have had no idea of
the place whither I sent him, and in his waking state would have required.
H
98 Mrs. H. Sulgwick.
information as to locality and names had I sent him in the body with a
message to the house, which was quite unknown to him.
I cannot find any memorandum made at the time, but I have once or
twice given an account of the circumstances as above narrated, which became
at the time of the occurrence fixed in my memory, which is retentive.
H. T. Humphreys.
(M. 320.) [From a gentleman who does not wish his name to bo
published.]
When what is popularly termed "biology" came into vogue some 40
years ago, a near relative, a physician, still living, at an advanced age, made
it a branch of study. Notwithstanding that he gave lectures upon the
subject, he never actually believed in it as a true science or power, although
illustrating his lecoures by throwing persons into the mesmeric trance, with
the usual manifestations. This strange scepticism I cannot account for, but
mention it as told to me by himself. Among others he was in the custom of
mesmerising a boy, whom indeed he took with him when invited to lecture
at a distance (he was by no means a professional biologist). This boy he
could mesmerise instantaneously. I never was present at any of his lectures,
as we lived at a considerable distance apart. Being on a short visit to my
friend, and about to leave by the stage-coach at 4 p.m., he suddenly
recollected that there was about an hour to spare, and that if he could find
the boy, he might be able to show me a case of clairvoyance. We did find
the youth with some trouble, and at quarter-past 3 o'clock he permitted
himself, but with much reluctance, to be mesmerised. It appeared that he
always suffered afterwards. The moment he was mesmerised Dr. B. said to
him : " Now be quick, as this gentleman is in a hurry. Does he live in this
town?" "No, he lives about 24 miles away" (which was correct).
"Where?" " I don't know, but it's in a big town." "Do you see his
house ? " "Yes, it's at the top of a brae " (ascent). " How many rooms are
there in it ? " The answer was perfectly correct. " Do you see any people
in it ? " " Only a servant and a child in the cradle. They are in the kitchen."
" What is the servant doing 1 " " She is peeling potatoes, and sometimes
rocking the cradle with her foot." " Are you sure there is no one else in the
house?" "Certain." " Is there nobody in any of the rooms?" "No,
the mistress of the house went down to the town a little while ago."
On this, my friend, who had faithfully promised the boy to keep him
only a short time under the mesmeric influence, asked me if I had seen and
beard enough to satisfy my curiosity and to test the probability of the
answers being correct, and on my expressing my satisfaction, immediately
demesmerised (is there such a word ?) him, and the lad decamped incon
tinently, evidently glad to make his escape.
On arriving at home in the evening, I made careful inquiry, and found
that all was just as the boy had stated. The time was easily fixed by the
hour at which my wife had gone out for a walk. She had " gone down the
town " about 3 o'clock, and had ordered dinner at 4 o'clock. At the moment
,of the boy being mesmerised, the servant was undoubtedly peeling the dinner
potatoes in the kitchen, and at the same time attending to the baby in the
cradle.
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 99
The story is short and simple, and is perfectly unvarnished. There was
not a suspicion of collusion (had it been possible), my friend being a physician
,of the highest honour, and held in an esteem of which he recently had a most
remarkable public proof, yet it is sufficient "to give us pause" ere treating it
with philosophic contempt. By "collusion," I mean that the boy might have
"been furnished with the probabilities ;—which explanation is out of the
,question.
Clairvoyance op the Past.
(M. 330.) The following account was sent by Mrs. Stella, of Chieri,
Italy, who was known to Mr. Gurney, and who was the percipient in Cases
198 and 274 in Phantasms of the Living. Mr. Gurney suggested that this
.may have been a case of reading of A.'s mind through its affinity to B's, who
is present.
" A short time ago, hearing that there was a ' sonnambula ' in the neigh
bouring town, I went to ' consult ' her out of pure curiosity, and quite pre
pared to be hoaxed. I was told that she could tell you all about yourself,
and any other person in whom you were interested, provided you gave her
an object belonging to that person. I went to see her, and asked for a
seance. She was placed in a state of trance or mesmeric sleep by a young
girl, who, after placing my hand in that of the 'sonnambula,' left the house.
The woman first gave me a personal description of myself, nationality, &c.,
with a description of character, which was perfectly correct. She even
mentioned a slight indisposition from which I was suffering, giving me a
remedy for it. I then gave her some hair which I had combed out of a brush
in my stepson's travelling bag, he having just arrived from Spain. (This I
did on purpose, in order to puzzle her.) She took the hair in her hand,
placing it on her forehead, and at the same time leaving her hold on my
hand. At first she was puzzled and confused, but soon her ideas seemed
to become more distinct, and then she told me his relationship to myself,
giving an exast personal description of his appearance, character, &c. She
did not call him my stepson, but ' a close relation without consanguinity.'
I then asked her where he lived, what he did, &c. She told me all, even to
unimportant details. For instance, she said, ' Yesterday, he rode into the
country, got off his horse, and bought some cigars. The tobacconist could
not give him change, so seeing two friends passing, my son asked them to
change the note.' I knew nothing of this, but asked my boy when I
returned home, and found it true.
" I was certainly astonished, and my disbelief is shaken. All the answers
were not very clear, but if I expressed any dissent she got confused, so I
found it best to let her answer my questions her own way. Some of the
details are most curious, and the fact of the hair having been to Spain was
mentioned by her, and at first caused her some confusion, and she became
distressingly irritated at not being able to ' see ' clearly. On her return to
consciousness she appeared exhausted, and professed a total ignorance of
what had been asked her.
"I can give no suppositions on the matter, and only state what I
witnessed."
100 Leon Marillier.
IV.
APPARITIONS OF THE VIRGIN IN DORDOGNE.
By Leon Marillier.
(Translation revised by the author.)
In the summer of 1889 there appeared in the Department of the
Dordogne a sort of epidemic of hallucinations. The newspapers of
the district, and in particular VEcho de la Dordogne, concerned them
selves with these apparitions of the Virgin because it seemed that they
might be used as arguments in political and religious controversies.
They gave rise to endless discussions between Conservatives and'
Republicans, between Catholics and Freethinkers ; but it hardly
occurred to anyone to deal with the matter scientifically. For this
reason it is impossible to trust entirely the accounts of the newspapers..
The Echo de la Dordogne, however, contains some definite and interest
ing information which agrees with what I actually heard in September,
1889, from the mouths of the little girls who first saw the apparition,
and of the priests who followed the affair from the beginning.
To my mind the interest of these apparitions consisted not in the
visions themselves, which, according to the accounts current in the
district, were like all visions of mystics, but in their contagious
character. Many epidemics of hallucinations have been observed (that
at Corano, in Italy, in 1885, being one of the most recent), and their
general characteristics are pretty well known, but it has not been
determined, by critical examination of particular cases, how much is
due in these phenomena to verbal suggestion, and how much to true
infection. This is what led me to study these apparitions in detail.
A little girl of 11 years of age was the first to see the Virgin.
Her hallucination was transmitted, in the first place, to other children
of her own age, and then to a large number of peasants, both men
and women. Grown men and children alike saw the apparition, but
they all saw it under a slightly different form. The central fact of
their stories is the same, but the details vary. The Virgin is sometimes
in white, sometimes in black ; sometimes she has her face bare, and
sometimes she is wrapped in a veil ; occasionally her body is luminous,
or she carries lights attached to her shoulders or to her breast. Some
times she is large, sometimes small, scarcely as tall as the plaster
statuettes which are found on the mantel-piece of every peasant's house
in Pdrigord. The surroundings also change. Sometimes the Virgin
appears upon the lande as a vague, ill-defined form, which passes as
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. 101
though wrapped in the mist. Sometimes, on the other hand, to one
who looks between the stones heaped up at the foot of the hazel tree,
where she first revealed herself, she appears all resplendent with golden
light, in a chapel of gold, illuminated by the light of wax candles.
It will be useful, for the right understanding of the character of
these hallucinations, to describe shortly the district in which they took
place, and in particular the spot where the Virgin appeared. The
little seer 1 lives some miles from PeYigueux, in a country of low, stony
hills, where grow great branching chestnut trees, and oaks with black
trunks. The red tinge of the soil appears through the scanty herbage,
under the pitiless light of the blue sky. Mournful heaths, covered
with fine herbs, studded with thickets, and cut up by small half-ruinous
walls, stretch over the low hills between the silent woods. Sheep are
feeding here and there, tended by a little girl who sits at the foot of
,a thicket of hazel or holly. However far one looks, one sees hills
behind hills stretching to the horizon. There is nothing to arrest the
eyes or to fix the thought in this indefinite and vague landscape, in
these undulating woods, which grow blue in the distance like a silent
sea. Nothing is heard but the strong voice of the wind which blows
unceasingly at the top of the hills, and in the bottoms of the valleys,
which are filled with tall vegetation, the sound of the streams con
tinually turning the mill-wheels. The farms are built on the skirts of
the meadows, at the foot of the woods which rise towards the sky ; the
villages stretch along the river ; and on the smooth waste beyond the
woods, where the heather grows, there is a deep calm, a solitude
disturbed only by the browsing of the sheep, and the short bark of the
dogs, answering one another from farm to farm.
It is in the midst of this mild and mournful country that the
Virgin appeared on the heath of Pontinet. On a hot summer after
noon I went to the new sanctuary—a few stones piled up by the side of
a bush. On a piece of land, which is half field and half heath, where
grey herbage grows with difficulty among the stones, the peasants are
coming and going with a solemn air, looking rather grave and frightened.
At the end of the field is a wall of old stones, loose and crumbling,
and pierced by deep holes. Behind the wall oaks have grown scantily
upon the red soil, and a stunted hazel tree has emerged from a heap of
stones. A tent has been made with a white cloth and four sticks, and
, there, on the boards, are spread out rosaries, holy images, and a
thousand little objects which have been brought to the holy Virgin for
her blessing. These rosaries are placed upon the wall, and are thus
sanctified ; and it is said that those which have already been blessed
separate themselves from the others.
1 Seer is used, for lack of a better word, to translate voyante.
102 Leon MarilUer.
A family is sitting in the little wood beside the heath—pious, but
sceptical people, who look with a mocking eye upon the women in
white caps or in many-coloured muslins, who are prostrating them
selves, moved and serious, at the foot of the old wall by the hazel
thicket. A little girl, Marie Roussary(14 years of age), puts her head
into a hole in the wall in order to see the Virgin, whom she has come
to seek for a week past, and has not yet found. She is stretched out
at full length upon the ground, and her body is agitated by convulsive
movements. She groans, and wrings her hands. Suddenly she sees
at the bottom of the hole in the wall a golden chapel, and in the
chapel there is the Virgin with the Child in her arms, and all about her
are flying angels, clothed in light. The child gazes in ecstasy. " Oh,
how fine she is ! How pretty our Lady is ! " It is necessary almost to
tear her away from the wall. Then follows a woman (Anna
Barbansais), who approaches the wall devoutly, and looks into the
dark hole. At the bottom of the hole the gilded chapel is still shining.
She has been coming to the sacred bush for 12 days now, and this is
the first time that she has seen the Virgin. One day, however, a week
before, she had seen her when she was passing over the heath at night
fall. Next follows a grave peasant, with a serious and distrustful air,
who, in his turn, approaches the wall, and is soon seized by the same
vision. He is upon his hands and knees, searching with a troubled
gaze the crack which penetrates between the stones. He is silent, and
trembling all over, and then he announces that he, too, like the others,
has seen the Virgin. Has he really seen her 1 or is it false shame 1
Ts he unwilling to confess that there was before him nothing but a
heap of crumbling stones, without chapel and without God? It is
impossible to know. He gets up slowly and gravely, with a serious
and thoughtful look. When he departs, another takes his place, and
all, each in turn, approach the sacred spot. All do not see, but
those who have not seen depart silently. They are both sad and
humiliated. In this manner the peasants come by hundreds every day
to this corner of heath hidden behind the oaks to find the Virgin.
The soil is beaten hard, as if herds had passed over it, and the whole
crowd is silent, composed, and grave, and it seems as if a new faith
and a new form of worship were about to come into being.
In the morning I went to the house of the seer. Prom Savignac
we had followed a narrow path, which led through the tall grass of the
meadows. We saw in a field a little girl, thin and dark, digging.
potatoes. Near the field, on the other side of the hedge, was a farm
house, with a red roof, and a fig tree against it. We asked the child if
it was La Varenne, and if she knew Marie Magontier (the name of the
seer). She raised her large black eyes, burning with an ardent fire,
and looked at us with a half-smile of her expressive mouth, and an air
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. 103
that was at once bold and frightened. It was Marie Magontier. As
she walked towards the house, my companion, M. Verdeney, spoke to
her in the dialect of the district, but she answered hardly at all, and
only in short sentences. She took us into a low room, where a woman
was sitting at the corner of a great fireplace, nursing a baby. A tall,
strong peasant was standing near the door. It was here that Marie
lived, in the house of a relation who had taken her in. She stood
apart, leaning against a dresser, and looked at us with a strange and
disturbing expression of mocking hostility. She was barely 12 years
old, but in her motions and in her manner of looking and of smiling
there was a penetrating grace, which was at the same time artless and
studied, a sort of unconscious and crafty coquetry. She was still a
child, but she was half a woman, with looks which were in turn caress
ing and forbidding. Her rebellious black hair made a tangle of wild
locks upon her head ; her thin, bare legs were sunburnt and covered
with mud, and while she looked at us with a strange, absent look,
her thin childish arms were crossed behind her back. I questioned Marie
about her visions, but she was unwilling to talk to me at first, and
remained silent, putting on the bored and sulky look of a child who is
embarrassed by a question. One felt that it would not need much
more urging to produce an outburst, and that she would soon come to
violent and coarse language. She had not breakfasted yet, and the
soup which was smoking upon the fire seemed to interest her much
more than our questions. She looked at us and then at the door, and
twisted a corner of her jacket between her fingers. She did not
understand why we had come so far to ask her questions. She was
disturbed and disconcerted, and it seemed that she could not, without
repugnance, speak about her visions to people who had not yet given
any proof of their simple faith and entire confidence in her. "VVe
understood that we could scarcely expect to get anything from her so
long as she had not become familiar with us. The exuberance and flow
of words of M. Verdeney, and the official gravity of M. Brun, did
not put her in the humour for talking, and the presence of her relations
seemed to embarrass her and to put a kind of constraint upon her ; so
we made an appointment with her for a little later, and went to obtain
information from the Cure' of Savignac.
The account given us by M. Mestaier, Cure of Savignac, was as
follows :—
Marie Magontier experienced her first hallucination on July 16th,
the day of the Fete of Our Lady of Carmel. For more than five
years past she had occasionally seen the Virgin appear to her, but it
was not certain whether these apparitions were not in dreams. Her
mother, on the evidence of M. Poujat, Mayor of Mayac, was subject to
hallucinations ; she used to see in full daylight a form come down her
104 Leon Marillier.
chimney and advance towards her to kill her. The father was
epileptic. To this M. Gerard, of Mayac, in whose service the mother
had been, could bear witness. The child's mind was filled with
ambitious ideas. She said that she was "more than the priests,"
because she talked to the Blessed Virgin and the Blessed Virgin talked
to her. She kept apart from the other children, did not play, and
was deeply impressed with the mission which she had received. Her
self of a lofty piety, she laughed at received religious practices, and
broke out into mockery at the peasants because they took their hats off
before a crucifix. She would not accept advice or counsel from anyone.
She said that she was rich, and had no need of money, because she was
the friend of the Virgin ; but at the same time she would accept coins
given her by those who were brought to her by her visions. It was
not certain that she did not believe herself authorised to take what
did not belong to her, when she desired it. She had taken money.
" Everyone," she said, " does his business his own way."
She had lived in the summer in the village of Garabeau (in the
Commune of Saint Vincent de l'lle), and had been in the habit of
taking her sheep to an uncultivated field at the place called Le Pontinet,
in the Commune of Savignac les Eglises. One day, she said, she saw the
Virgin appear to her in a hole in the wall. The figure was quite
small, only a few inches high. This apparition made a great noise, and
she spoke of it to everybody, and soon others, too, like herself, saw the
Virgin ; namely, Marguerite Carreau and Marie Gourvat, both living
at La Bourelie. On August 4th, M. Mestaier examined the two
children separately. Marie Magontier told him that it was Marguerite
Carreau who had seen the Virgin first, but that now it was to her that
she appeared every time that she went to Le Pontinet. Marguerite
Carreau, on the other hand, maintained that neither she nor the little
Gourvat had seen anything until the day when Marie Magontier told
them of her visions. Our further inquiries seem to have proved that
they were both right ; that it was Marguerite Carreau who was the
first to experience certain vague and indistinct hallucinations, but that
they only became defined under the influence of the definite vision which
appeared to Marie Magontier on the heath of Le Pontinet. According
to the Cur4 Marie is a clever and cunning child of a quick intelligence,
who has always exercised a sort of ascendency over children of her
own age and even over grown-up people. She has in the district the
reputation of being a witch, or nearly so. The wolves do not take her
sheep, for she has prayers against them. She has readily given advice
on money matters, or on family affairs. She lies down upon the ground,
with her head in the crack in the wall, and waits for the answer of the
Virgin. The Virgin appeared to her dressed in black, and all wrapped
in veils, because, said Marie, she was wearing mourning for France.
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dorclognc. 105
Tt would seem, however, that this explanation has been suggested to her
by M. Mestaier. The Virgin has a horror of red, as she had told
Marie several times. In this it looks as though there were a political
intention, which at first might make one suspect the child's sincerity ;
but it must be remembered that the attitude of the clergy, and in
particular of the Bishop of Perigueux, has been from the first very
reserved, and afterwards definitely hostile.
The apparitions soon increased in number, and up to August 4th there
were more than a dozen. Every time that the seers went to Le
Pontinet they saw the Virgin. Children, women, and even men went
in crowds to the miraculous wall. The Virgin appeared every day,
clothed sometimes in black and sometimes in white. She was
occasionally wrapped in a garment of light, and certain people said
that she had lighted candles upon her breast and her shoulders. They
told their beads kneeling upon the rough ground of the heath, among
the great stones scattered here and there, which Marie compared to
tombstones ; they sang psalms and litanies, and burnt tapers ; and
men and women came to consult the seers and to make inquiiy about
the future.
On August 11th more than 1,500 people came to Le Pontinet, and
the Virgin appeared to a great number of them in the crack of the
wall. On the part of the women faith was complete ; but the men
came half believing and half doubting. If ecclesiastical authority
had been lent to it, a new form of devotion would very quickly have
been produced. On festival days tents were erected upon the heath,
where rosaries, statuettes of the Virgin, sausages and other meats,
pears and wine were sold indiscriminately. At another time of year
the news of the apparitions might perhaps have taken longer time to
spread, but August 6th was the examination day for elementary
certificates at Savignac les Eglises. There were some eighty children
there, and their relations heard the people of Savignac telling about
Marie's marvellous visions. They spread the news of them in the
neighbouring districts, and five days afterwards, on August 11th,
more than 1,500 people came to the hazel bush where the Virgin had
appeared.
At about one o'clock Marie Magontier came again to find us at the
inn. She was less shy than in the morning, and was more ready to
allow us to ask her questions. She had no longer the same hostile and
contemptuous attitude, but she seemed still to be uneasy and troubled,
and she sat in a corner of the room with her eyes obstinately fixed
upon the ground. M. Verdeney questioned her in patois, but he could
not get any answer from her. I then went to her, took her hands, and
spoke gently to her, stroking her cheek and her hair, and looking into
her eyes. After a short time she came to me of her own accord, and
106 Leon Marillier.
after that she willingly answered all my questions. She told me that her
mother also had had visions, that she saw her sister appear to her, and
that at night she saw lights pass. She herself, one night, had seen her
mother, who was dead, as a tall white lady, who came close to her. She
heard voices, and one day the Virgin had spoken to her, and another
time she had kissed her. Like her mother, when she was passing over
the heath or along the roads in the evening, she saw lights, which
moved along in the darkness. One day she had gone to lie Pontinet
to tend her flock, and had sat down in the shade of the hazel clump,
when it occurred to her—she does not know why—to look into the dark
crack which gaped between the mossy stones of the old ruined wall.
She saw at the bottom of the hole a figure of the Virgin, small and
black, less than a foot high. She only saw her as far down as the
waist. Then the black lady disappeared, and in her place there was a
figure of the Blessed Virgin, all wrapped up in white veils, like the
statues of the Virgin of the Immaculate Conception, which are to be
seen on the altars of the small churches in the towns. Soon, two other
figures appeared beside the Virgin. Marie was alarmed and went home,
and next day she came back with a bottle of holy water. The Virgin,
clothed in white, was still in the hole of the old wall. She threw some
holy water on the stones and said, " If thou art from the devil, go
away. If thou art from God, speak to me." The Virgin did not
vanish, and on another day she spoke to her. Once she saw her
guardian angel beside the Virgin ; a figure which she had seen in a
picture hanging upon the wall of the church at Savignac.
Maiie started with us for Le Pontinet. She chattered all the way,,
and would not leave me, keeping close beside me and holding my hand.
When we reached the heath we found it crowded with peasant
women. The little seer was like a priest in the midst of the faithful.
They surrounded her, and listened to her, and came to consult her.
When we left this barren plain, where we felt ourselves to be far from
our everyday life, transported into an antique world of the time of the
visions of Assisi, we had great difficulty in preventing Marie from
coming with us, so unwilling was she to leave us. Had she attached
herself to us, and to me in particular, with one of those strange
childish affections, sudden and passionate, which sometimes spring up
in young minds, when they are uneasy and perturbed like hers ? Or
was she afraid that we should hear ill of her and that we should find
among the people of the place evidence that she was not sincere 1 I do
not know ; but I have no doubt, so far as I am concerned, of the reality
of her visions. In my opinion she certainly saw the Virgin .in the
crack of the wall. She is no doubt subject to hallucinations; but
at the same time she is ill-balanced, and heavily weighted with the
burden of heredity. She is the daughter of a father who was
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. 107
epileptic and of a mother who was doubtless insane, and she has the
bearing, the character—in a word, all the appearance of one suffering
from hereditary degeneration. She is filled, too, with the morbid self-
love and the enormous vanity so common among the degenerated. She
believes that she has a mission, and it is certain that she would not
shrink from any lie for the purpose of making others share her convic
tion. It is impossible to determine in what degree she believes in her
stories. She has no apparent physical defects. There is no lack of
facial symmetry. Her mouth is well made, her ears properly rimmed,
and her face animated and intelligent ; but I had neither time nor
means for testing her sensibility or for examining her field of vision.
I believe, however, that it was with a degenerated and not with a
hysterical subject that we had to do.
Before leaving Savignac we examined the two other little seers,
Marguerite Carreau and Marie Gourvat, of the village of La Bourelie.
Marguerite Carreau is a fair child, very gentle and timid, but quite
ready to answer questions and giving an impression of sincerity and
frankness. In the month of July she had, during the course of a
week, vague and indefinite hallucinations. She saw shadows pass
before her. Marie Magontier told her what she had seen, and it
was then that the Virgin appeared to her in the miraculous wall. She
was quite small and dressed in black. The child was frightened, and
after some days the hallucinations disappeared and had never returned.
Marguerite Carreau is the daughter of a well-to-do farmer, and had not
lived the wandering and almost vagrant life of Marie Magontier. She
does not appear to be, like her, an ill-balanced—a neurotic subject, but
visual illusions are easy in this country of woods and heaths, still
full of pious legends. The mysticism developed in the child's tender
heart by the preparation for the first Communion, and her conversations
with Marie had done the rest ; but Marguerite's hallucinations never
had the same persistence and clearness as her friend's. Her reading,
also, may have had some influence, for she had read Undine and
Hoffmann's Contes Fantastiques.
Marie Gourvat, according to the Cure of Savignac, is a pretentious
child, bold and obstinate. She answered all our questions without
hesitation. She is much more open, more on the outside than her
little friends, and at the same time she is ruder than them and of a
less subtle nature. Apparently she was influenced by the two little
seers, and had no vision until the others had talked to her of the
apparitions which they had seen.
Three times she saw before her a black shadow. The shadow grew,
and the outlines became defined. It grew clearer and more luminous,
and at last the Virgin appeared, clothed in white, with a blue girdle
and a shining buckle. She held a child in her arms, and her feet were
108 Leon Marillier.
bare. There was in the house of the Gourvat family a statuette of the
Virgin which was apparently reproduced accurately in Marie's vision.
She had also experienced some auditory hallucinations. The
Virgin had spoken to her, and had predicted the future ; but these
predictions were very vague and generally referred to family affairs or
money matters.
After the visions of these three seers, a large number of other
children experienced hallucinations. Visual hallucinations predomi
nated, while those of an auditory nature were comparatively rare. The
visual hallucinations have two characteristics, which it is important to
notice. In the first place, it often happened—as in a case which we
saw with our own eyes—that on the heath of Le Pontinet several
children and several women saw the Virgin at the same time. She
did not, however, appear to all of them under the same aspect. Some
saw her in white and others in black. For some she was wrapped in
veils ; for others her face was bare. In the second place it must be
noted that these hallucinations were formed gradually, that they grew
slowly, and that for each of the original seers, and afterwards for each
of those who believed in the visions, a sort of education or gathered
enthusiasm was necessary in order that they might see the apparition
with full clearness. Generally a little dark figure was seen at first,
which grew larger and brighter at the same time. Marie Magontier
has seen the Virgin slowly take off the veils in which she was
shrouded.
Thus the principal elements of the visions were furnished by the
mind of each person, by the images which occupied it, and by his
individual habits of thought and perception. Nothing was com
municated from outside but the idea of the apparition and its most
general features—an abstract image, so to speak, a sort of scheme
which each person might transform and modify in his own way.
Round this central conception the details grouped themselves, and in
some cases a long time was needed, several hours or several days, before
the new image which thus came into existence could gain enough
intensity to become objective and to overcome the conflicting sensations.
Thus, properly speaking, there is no contagion. Each hallucination is
the individual production of the person who experienced it. In this
matter there can be no question of suggestion other than verbal ; and
whatever opinion may be held about the reality of telepathic
phenomena, mental suggestion is here clearly irrelevant. The men and
the women who came to the heath of Le Pontinet had for many days
heard talk of the mysterious visions of Marie and her companions; they
expected to see the Virgin, and with all their souls desired to see her.
In reality the mechanism which is at work here is very different
from the mechanism of suggestion. There is not in this case an idea
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. 100
or an image which at once impresses itself upon the mind. The
hallucinatory image is not like a stranger among the other images and
the other ideas, isolated from all that surrounds it. As in the case of
a " fixed idea," and as in the case of ecstasy, we have to do with a
state of consciousness which gradually grows, which by its intensity
throws into the background, attenuates and enfeebles the other states
of consciousness, but which remains in connection with them. The ego
retains its unity and imposes its form upon the foreign idea which has
come from outside, and which for a moment entirely absorbs it.
It must be remembered, however, that, ordinarily, hallucinations and
illusions have a definitely individual' character, that they rarely affect
several persons at the same time, and that, even when they do, they
are generally limited to a small group of persons placed under identical
or at any rate very similar conditions of life. Here, on the contrary,
peasants and peasant-women, whose minds, I admit, do not differ
greatly one from another, who have the same beliefs, the same super
stitions, and the same habits of thought, but who are not acquainted
with one another and do not live together, experience during a certain
period hallucinations which in their general character are very like one
another, and in some cases are actually simultaneous hallucinations.
If telepathic phenomena were admitted as facts of nature it would
perhaps be right to consider the action of the minds of the seers upon
the minds of the men and women who saw the Virgin appear to them
as the cause, not necessarily of the hallucinations themselves, but of the
special mental state which allowed them to be produced and to develop.
It appears to me, however, that it is better to have recourse to a
more simple explanation. We notice first that the hallucinations with
which we are dealing are for the most part visual ; and that auditory
hallucinations, when they occur, are determined by the visual halluci
nations. Among these visions we must separate two distinct classes.
In the one we must place the apparitions of the Virgin in the crack of
the wall ; and in the other the apparitions on the heath, in the fields,
or on the roads. The hallucinations of the latter kind are exceptional..
They were hardly ever experienced but by those who had already seen
the Virgin in the wall ; or else they were of a confused and vague
character which separates them clearly from the visions of the other
class. It is extremely probable that no attention would have been
paid to them if they had not coincided with the marvellous apparitions
of Le Pontinet. It seems to me that the visions seen in the crack of
the wall may be brought into connection with the hallucinations a
point de repere 1 which have been studied by MM. Binet and Fere.
1 That is, hallucinations formed upon an external nucleus, " gathering-point,
hallucinations," as we may call them.
110 Lion Marittier.
These hallucinations are, in truth, only a special form of illusions. The
point of departure is a real sensation round which images are grouped
.«,nd crystallised. Hallucinations of this type are much less rare than
hallucinations of purely central origin. I believe that it is possible to
.explain in this manner the epidemic of hallucinations in question. Around
a real sensation, which is the same for all, are grouped certain images
which have a strong resemblance to one another and a tendency to become
objective. No clear visual sensation can conflict with these images and
destroy them while the subject is looking into the hole. Thus they
develop, grow, and at length become externalised. The images only
differ in detail, and thus all the visions have a common foundation
and only differ in secondary characteristics.
This interpretation is confirmed by the fact that when the subject
goes away from the wall, or even ceases to look into the crack, the
vision disappears. I would add, also, that the congested condition of
the brain, determined by the position of the head, may play a certain
part in the genesis of the apparitions.
It will be seen that in the phenomena which we have been studying
it is verbal suggestion that played the principal part ; if " infection "
exercised any influence it was at any rate only secondary, and at best
only engendered a state favourable to the appearance of the hallucina
tions. If cases exist where several people have seen an apparition
simultaneously without any verbal suggestion at all, these cases belong
to a different category of phenomena.
supplement] W. James, "The Principles of Psychology." Ill
Professor William James has for some years past—as most of our readers
will know—contributed to Mind and to other periodicals a series of psycho
logical essays of marked originality and power. These essays, along with
much new matter, he has now incorporated into a comprehensive treatise of
some 1,400 octavo pages on "The Principles of Psychology"—a treatise
intended primarily as an advanced text-book for students, but going far
beyond ordinary examination requirements, and embracing perhaps the
completest treatment of the subject, from the purely scientific side, which
any single work in our language contains.
Some notice of such a treatise may fitly appear in our Proceedings; yet I
shall not attempt to review it as a whole, but shall content myself with deal
ing with some of the many points where the author's exposition comes in
contact with our special researches.
The effort to make this selection involves the somewhat difficult question:
What relation does "Psychical Research"—thus vaguely baptised for lack of a
more definite title—bear to Psychology in general 1 What parts of Psychology
do we touch ? and do all our enquiries lie fairly within the psychological
The second of these questions may be answered first. A hundred years
ago, or fifty years ago, our subject-matter—consisting on the one hand in
minute experiment among strange and bizarre regions of human faculty, and
on the other hand in the collection of testimonies to a class of incidents then
regarded as either supernatural or fictitious—would have seemed at once too
physiological and too superstitious for a place in a dignified treatise on
"mental philosophy." But during the last generation an "experimental
psychology " has been developed, depending less on introspection—although
introspection also is experiment—than on the systematic investigations of
neurotic hospital or psycho-physiological laboratory ; and welcoming, more
over, all kinds of morbid or abnormal experiences as an indispensable
addition to the tranquil self-questionings of the well-balanced philosopher,
which were the principal data with whose study the science began.
Savants of the experimental school, it is plain, cannot exclude a priori from
psychology either our subject-matter or our method of treatment, although
they may, of course, consider that the subject-matter is unpromising or the
method ill pursued.
1 The Principles of Psychology. By William James, Professor of Psychology in
Harvard University. In two volumes. [New York: Henry Holt and Co. London:
Macmillan
I.
"THE PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOLOGY." i
By F. W. H. Myers.
field ?
112 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
On analysing that subject-matter, it will be found that we have mainly
concerned ourselves with such questions as, while admitting of statistical or
expenmental treatment, do nevertheless promise to throw some light, one
way or the other, upon those deeper controversies as to the existence or
character of a spiritual principle in man which have hitherto been mainly
conducted rather on metaphysical than on empirical lines. In this task we
have started—as I at least conceive our position—entirely without pre
supposition or prejudice. Our research has postulated nothing which need
prevent its landing us in that " psychology without a soul" which is at
present bolder and more outspoken than any other creed. And in fact
much that has appeared in these Proceedings has actually made for that
negative view. There has been much reduction of alleged supernatural
phenomena to causes familiar to materialistic science. There has been much
insistence on views of "multiplex personality" and the like, which are
dreaded by many minds as destroying the spiritual unity of man. There
has, in short, been a complete acceptance of those analytical methods to
which the partisans of the mechanical view of the universe appeal with an
air of triumph which to us seems at least premature. But on the other
hand we have collected much new evidence of a positive kind. There has
been what we regard as adequate evidence of telepathy—a power of direct
communication from mind to mind which is difficult to reconcile with the
ordinary materialistic synthesis. There has been evidence also—less in quan
tity, but to me convincing—of clairvoyance,—of the supernormal acquisition of
knowledge as to present, past, and perhaps even future things. And there
has been evidence which points prima facie to the agency of departed per
sonalities, although this evidence has also been interpreted in other ways.
Such has been our subject-matter in general. As to the standpoint from
which it is viewed, I cannot speak for others than myself. The bearing of
my own view upon questions of ordinary psychology will appear in the
course of the present review, in which I must give my merely personal
criticism of Professor James's general attitude, and of some of his views in
detail.
With sound judgment, as it seems to me, our author has explicitly
abstained ab initio from ranging himself either with the spiritualist1 or with
the materialist school.
"I have kept close," he says (Preface, p. v.), "to the point of view of
natural science throughout the book. Every natural science assumes certain
data uncritically, and declines to challenge the elements between which its own
' laws' obtain, and from which its own deductions are carried on. . .
This book, assuming that thoughts and feelings exist, and are vehicles of
1Professor James, like many other English-writingsavants, uses the word Spiritualist
(as the French use Spiritualiste)'m contrast with associationist.materialist, mechanical,
or purely physiological schemes of philosophy, and without reference to " Modern
Spiritualism." But he feels obliged to use the same word again, with a quite different
connotation, when speaking of those who believe that the departed communicate
with survivors through "mediums." This confusion is mostawkward, andean easily be
avoided if (as has been previously urged, both in these Proceedings and in some
" Spiritualistic " organs) the term "Spiritist" be alone employed in the more
restricted signification, for which the form of the word adapts it, and " Spiritualist "
be left as a philosophic term of more general scope.
Supplement.] W. James, " The Principles of Psychology." 113
knowledge, thereupon contends that psychology,when she has ascertained the
empirical correlation of the various sorts of thought and feeling with
definite conditions of the brain, can go no farther,—can go no farther,
that is, as a natural science. If she goes farther she becomes metaphy
sical. All attempts to explain our phenomenally given thoughts as products
of deeper-lying qualities (whether the latter be named 'Soul,' ' Transcendental
Ego,' 'Ideas,' or 'Elementary Units of Consciousness,' are metaphysical.
. This book consequently rejects both the associationist and the
spiritualist theories ; and in this strictly positivistic point of view consists
the only feature of it for which I feel tempted to claim originality. . , .
I have therefore treated our passing thoughts as integers, and regarded the
mere laws of their co-existence with brain states as the ultimate laws for our
science. The reader will in vain seek for any closed system in the book. It
is mainly a map of descriptive details, running out into queries which only a
metaphysics alive to the weight of her task can hope successfully to deal with.
That will perhaps be centuries hence ; and meanwhile the best mark of
health that a science can show is this unfinished-seeming front."
Undoubtedly this is, at present, the most reasonable and the fairest position
for an educational treatise on psychology to take up. But the facts and
inferences thus presented to us with a kind of neutrality will in their turn
be criticised from many different standpoints. Some criticisms will be
mainly metaphysical, and will probably concern the relation borne by
Professor James's views to the views of some definite philosophical school.
Such comment we need not here anticipate. But even among those critics
who appeal exclusively to observation and experiment in support of their
themes, we shall find theories at opposite ends of the materialistic-spiritual
istic scale. My own point of view—at once experimental and spiritualistic
(I do not mean spiritistic)—can best be explained by first citing some brief
and powerful statement of the exactly opposite conclusions which experiment
is with equal confidence (and much more frequently) invoked to support.
I select such a statement from a recent article by M. Jules Soury on the
Physiological Psychology of Protozoa, in the Revue Philoso2}hic[ue for January,
1891.
"Unconscious processes of knowledge, along with motor reactions
equally unconscious—this is what we discover at the distant origin of human
understanding. This is what we find in the unicellular organisms from which
the Metazoa, and man himself, have arisen. It is at any rate our clearest
result of observation and experiment upon the properties of living pro
toplasm, studied in its smallest particles among the Protozoa and Protophyta.
But it will be possible to push still further our analysis of the psychical
properties of living matter ; for these psychical properties have at any rate
no narrower limitation than the limitation of life itself. I hold, in fact, with
Paul Bert, that the psychical processes in their most elementary form must be
sought and studied in the molecular processes of particles of protoplasm. In
other words, it is in the properties of the grains and molecules which make
up particles of protoplasm that we shall discover the most primitive condi
tions which the existing world can show us of those very psychical processes
which pass in our own brains, of which we ourselves are conscious."
"But when this conception is reached, we have the right to infer tha
i
114 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
existence, I do not say of a correspondence, or of a relation, but of an
absolute identity between every elementary psychical process and every
molecular process ; that is to say, between every modification of a psychical
state, and of a molecular state, of any organised body of whatever kind. And
by an organised body, I repeat, we must understand simply a portion of
matter whose molecular arrangements are more complex and less stable
than the molecular arrangements of the matter which we term inorganic. In
a word, all psychical processes are ultimately reducible to phenomena of
molecular mechanics."
Let me try to meet this clear statement with an equally clear exposition
of my own conflicting view. In the first place, I entirely accept the experi
mental method here indicated. I make no appeal to any religious, moral, or
metaphysical argument. I am willing, if microscopy allows it, "to study
psychical processes in their most elementary form in the molecular processes
of particles of protoplasm." Only, remembering that, how far soever such
analysis may be pushed, we shall still be studying psychical processes from
the outside, I desire that experiment from within should also be pushed to its
extreme limits—that is to say, to the highest and most complex phenomena
of psychical life. And over against the purely chemical attractions and
reactions which M. Soury discovers in his protozoa, I claim that at the other
end of the scale we can set the discovery of supersensory powers—clair
voyance and telepathy. Just as M. Soury infers from his experiments that
the psychical life of the lower organisms shades insensibly into the molecular
changes of lifeless matter, so do I infer from our experiments that the
psychical life of the higher organisms is not wholly determined by terrene or
corporeal evolution, but slides insensibly into the conditions of a life not
dependent on the concomitance of a material brain. Nay, further—e" /iot
64fiis, 64/j.is 8* Ta\rj6q \eyciv—I will even add that I find the transition between
the incarnate and the discarnate forms of life no more improbable than
the materialist finds the transition between the crystal and the speck of
protoplasm.
Our point of view thus made clear, we may proceed to detailed criticism
of such special passages in this long treatise as may directly concern us.
After a brief discussion of the scope of Psychology, the book opens with
the needful anatomical exposition of the functions of the brain, and the con
ditions of brain-activity.
One conclusion needs comment here, as bearing on the wide question of
the degree of possible inclusion of secondary or isolated chains of memory
in the memory which accompanies or constitutes the so-called conscious or
primary self. " We can affirm," says our author, " for practical purposes,
and limiting the meaning of the word consciousness to the primary self of the
individual, that the cortex is the sole organ of consciousness in man. If
there be any consciousness pertaining to the lower centres, it is a con
sciousness of which the self knows nothing."
" For practical purposes " this may, no doubt, be true. But the evidence
on which Professor James relies—evidence drawn from experiment upon the
lower animals, or from traumatic results in man, seems to me to be of too
crude and objective a character to decide alone this subtle point. It should
be supplemented, I think, by much more of experiment and observation of
supplement.] W. James, " The Principles of Psychology." 115
mental conditions under anaesthetics, during recovery from fainting, and
even during apparent coma. Professor James himself cites a part of the
following description given by Professor Herzen (Le Cerveau et L'Activity
Gerebrale, p. 236, &c.) of his own sensations during the gradual stages of
return from profound syncope :—
"During the syncope there is absolute psychic annihilation,—the absence
of all consciousness ; then, at the beginning of coming to, one has at a cer
tain moment a vague, limitless, infinite feeling—a sense of existence in
general, without the least trace of distinction between the me and the not
me. One is thus an organic part of Nature, having a consciousness of the
fact of one's existence, but none of one's organic unity ; one has, in a word,
,an impersonal consciousness. This feeling may be agreeable if the syncope
is not due to a violent pain, and very disagreeable if it is ; that is the only
possible distinction ; one feels oneself live and enjoy or live and suffer,
without knowing why one enjoys or suffers, and without knowing what is the
seat of this feeling. A great number of facts make it probable that, during
this stage of awakening, the extremities can already execute spinal reflexes,
in reply to tactile or dolorous excitations ; but the cephalic centres are cer
tainly still incapable of entering into activity."
We cannot here discuss Professor Herzen's facts ; but there is surely no
a priori impossibility in this assumption of a spinal or cerebellar under a
,cerebral memory. Such a process would even bear some analogy to that
deeply significant fact, the production by hypnotic suggestion of physiological
-or pathological processes, which cannot be produced by the waking will, or
even watched by waking observation, so deeply are they withdrawn from the
normal or superficial consciousness.
In all such points as these we are at present in the stage of early artifice ;
,we are empirically hitting on methods of extending our sway deeper into
that vast sub-liminal region over whose surface we habitually skim. At
present it seems safest to press the analogy of our ordinary chain of memory,
admittedly subject to lacuna whose forgotten subject-matter may afterwards
(as in the recollection of dreams) be partially and accidentally recovered—
and to conjecture that not the brain's life during sleep alone, but all nervous
action may be so far conscious as to be capable of being assumed into the
primary chain of memories, if only we can discover the appropriate artifice
which will raise those submerged sensations above the ever-shifting threshold
of our awake or empirical being.
At present all views on this subject must be equally hypothetical ; and
the main purport of my criticism is to reinforce the contention of Professor
James himself (Vol. I., p. 273, and see Mind, Vol. VII., p. 206) as to the
urgent need of further experiment under anaesthetics. This kind of experi
ment, indeed, is perhaps more rarely fruitful than Professor James assumes.
Having myself, by mere good fortune, once attained under nitrous oxide to
the state of "impersonal consciousness " which Herzen describes (and see
Foxwell in Appendix to Spencer's Psychology), I have endeavoured in
vain to repeat the experience. Yet the psychological instructiveness of this
unique sensation is so great that it should, I think, be a matter of course for
the experimental psychologist to test fully his own capacity of getting down
into that diffusive sense of scarce-conditioned existence from whence the
I 2
116 [Supplement-
F. W. H. Myers.
notion of personality itself, and the specialised senses severally, seem slowly
to define themselves, not only as an advance and a development, but as a
loss and a limitation. Through all these stages let the enquirer pass with
what memory he may ; muUipertransibunt et augebitur scientia.
I pass on to a somewhat similar point in Chap. V. ("The Automatic-
Theory "), where our author is arguing that the ill-explained phenomena of
vicariousfunction indicate that consciousness exerts a real efficacy of regula
tion or choice.
' 'A brain with part of it scooped out is virtually a new machine,and during
the first days after the operation functions in a thoroughly abnormal manner.
As a matter of fact, however, its performances become from day to day more
normal, until at last a practised eye may be needed to suspect anything
wrong. Some of the restoration is undoubtedly due to ' inhibitions ' pass
ing away. But if the consciousness which goes with the rest of the
brain be there not only in order to take cognisance of each functional error,
but also to exert an efficient pressure and check it if it be a sin of com
mission, and to lend a strengthening hand if it be a weakness or sin
of omission, nothing seems more natural than that the remaining parts,
assisted in this way, should by virtue of the principle of habit grow back to
the old teleological modes of exercise for which they were at first incapaci
tated. Nothing, on the contrary, seems at first sight more unnatural than.
that they should vicariously take up the duties of a part now lost, without
those duties as such exciting any persuasive or coercive power."
So far as I know, this argument is a new one ; nor, perhaps, are the ex
periments on which it is based as yet sufficiently well understood to support
so important a psychological deduction. I would suggest, however, that it
may derive some support from a small and imperfectly understood group of
cases which seem to point to a somewhat similar independence of conscious
ness—to the persistence, that is to say, of consciousness under pathological
conditions which would seem to negative its possibility.
If consciousness be a mere epiphenomenon—"a foam, aura, or melody"—
accompanying, but in no way guiding, certain molecular changes in the brain,
,we shall of course expect it always to accompany changes of the same kind.
We may suppose (for instance),with Herzen and others, that consciousness is
exclusively linked with the functional disintegration of central nervous
elements, and varies in its intensity with the rapidity or energy of that disin
tegration.1 And ordinary experience, at least within physiological limits, will
support some view like this. Yet now and then we find a case where vivid
consciousness has existed during a state of apparent coma ; not merely
accompanying some sudden shock, nor provoked by some discharging lesion,
nor even limited, as in Herzen's case, to a vague sense of being, but (so far
as we can see) tranquilly and intelligently co-existing with an almost
complete abeyance of ordinary vital function.
It is mainly in the study of telepathic hallucinations that instances of
this kind have thus far been observed. The remarkable case of Dr. Wiltse
(St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal, November, 1889) is, so far as I
know, the only case where such an experience has been immediately and
1 See Herzen, op. cit., p. 221 and note.
supplement.] W. James, "The Principles of Psychology." 117
.minutely recorded by a medical man on his return from a condition of
.apparent collapse.
Until this new field has been more fully worked—until the traces of
memory which may survive from comatose, ecstatic, syncopal conditions have
been revived (by hypnotic suggestion or otherwise), and carefully compared,
we have no right to make any absolute assertion as to the concomitant
cerebral processes on which consciousness depends.
This problem of consciousness meets us again in Chapter VI. ("TheMind-
.stuff Theory"), in the form of a discussion of the familiar question, " Can
states of mind be unconscious 1 " And here Professor James strikes the
right note when, in reply to the argument that "secondarily automatic"
performances "must consist of unconscious perceptions, inferences, and
volitions, " he suggests that the consciousness of these actions exists, but is
split off from the rest of the consciousness of the hemispheres.
But surely it is not enough to press this point with reference merely to
,those actions which, like expert piano-playing, from being consciously willed
have become automatic. .Rather, as I think, we are led to a definition of
-consciousness simple enough in itself, and in whose light many of the habitual
,disputations are seen to be purely verbal.
To describe a sensation or movement as conscious is—I venture to suggest
—in effect merely to assert that that sensation or movement is capable of
being comprehended in some chain of memory. That chain may be the
primary one which in common speech we identify with ourselves, or it may
ba a secondary one, either spontaneous or artificially created. A dream, for
instance, is a spontaneous secondary mnemonic chain ; the sleep-waking trance
, of the hypnotic subject is an artificial one. Suppose that I dreamt a hundred
dreams last night, and remember one only, in the midst of which I chanced
to be awakened. Were those other dreams "unconscious perceptions"
because I can truly affirm that I, as I conceive myself, passed the night in
profound unconsciousness ? Not so ; these dreams also were conscious, for
the ninety and nine which remained in the wilderness of subliminal cerebra
tion were as capable as the hundredth of being brought home, so to say, on
the shoulders of the primary self—of being comprehended in that principal
,chain of memories which alone lies above the threshold of waking life.
Again : only a few years ago it was maintained by Despine and others
that all a man's acts in the hypnotic trance were " unconscious." Few
would now maintain this ; partly because we have grown more familiar with
-artifices by which the entranced person may be made to remember or to
record his acts, after his awakening (Delboeuf, Gurney, &c), and partly
because subjects have now been kept so long (two years in one case) in the
hypnotic trance, with no apparent loss of rationality, that it would seem
,absurd to maintain that during all that period they had been more of automata
than their neighbours.
Yet if this be so, if the acts of the hypnotic trance are potentially as "con
scious"—as capable of recollection—as the acts of waking hours, some start
ling consequences will ensue. It will follow (as already hinted) that we need
not despair of comprehending under normal memory certain organic processes
which the hypnotic self can carry through—the formation of a blister, for
F. W. H. Myers. [Supplement.
instance,—processes whose mechanism has always lain wholly outside the
normal memory.
Bizarre though such a conception may seem, it becomes less strange if we
observe the great difference in the amount of the lower organic processes,
which different persons can in normal states perceive, or even partly regulate,
in the act of functioning. The better we realise these differences, the more
averse shall we be to predicting to what depth into our cellular being such
perception may be pushed by those artifices of hypnotic trance, automatic
writing, &c, which we are only just learning to employ. Who, even now„
can maintain that there is any true psychological line of distinction between
those processes which happen to rise above the threshold of our ordinary
consciousness—which become super-liminal—and those processes which,
happen to remain sub-liminal throughout our whole bodily life 1 That
threshold is itself, perhaps, the mere result of the survival of the fittest, and.
only marks off those vital processes which it was most important for our
ancestors to be aware of from those vital processes which they could with,
comparative safety ignore.
Professor James's discussion of consciousness leads on to the central'
psychological difficulty of stating intelligibly the connection between mind
and brain. For his own part, and for the purposes of purely scientific, as.
opposed to metaphysical, psychology, he feels justified in evading that diffi
culty by a mere statement of " the empirical law of concomitance."
"The consciousness, which is itself an integral thing not made of parts,.
' corresponds ' to the entire activity of the brain, whatever that may be, at
the moment. This is a way of expressing the relation of mind to brain
from which I shall not depart during the remainder of this book, because it
expresses the bare phenomenal fact with no hypothesis, and is exposed to m>
such logical objections as we have found to cling to the theory of ideas in.
combination."
By thus using the total consciousness of the moment as a kind of
psychological unit, Professor James is able to discuss many problems with
the least possible encumbrance of a metaphysical kind. But obviously the
unit is selected as a convenience in calculation, rather than as expressing
ultimate fact. The total consciousness of the moment is a function of some
thing or other, rather than an independent entity. We must look for our
veritable unit either below or above ; either in the atoms of mind-stuff from
which we may imagine the complex consciousness to be upbuilt, or in the soul,
of whose existence each moment's consciousness will form a transitory phase.
Professor James's view, the determination of such a unit—mind-dust
or soul—is not necessary to a scientific psychology. But, with this proviso,
he briefly reviews the various theories, and among conflicting difficulties
decides that in his own personal view the theory of a soul, or controlling
spiritual agent, is the least inconceivable.
"If there be such entities as souls in the universe, they may possibly be
affected by the manifold occurrences that go on in the nervous centres. To
the state of the entire brain at a given moment they may respond by inward1
modifications of their own. . . . The soul would be thus a medium upon
which the manifold brain processes continue their effects. Not needing to con
sider it as the ' inner aspect' of anyarch-molecule or brain cell, we escape
suppiement.1 W. James, "The Principles of Psychology." 119
that physiological improbability ; and as its pulses of consciousness are unitary
and integral affairs from the outset, we escape the absurdity of supposing
feelings which exist separately and then ' fuse together' by themselves. The
separateness is in the brain-world, on this theory, and the unity in the
soul-world ; and the only trouble that remains to haunt us is the metaphysical
one of understanding how one sort of world or existent thing can affect or
influence another at all. This trouble, however, since it also exists inside of
both worlds, and involves neither physical improbability nor logical contra
diction, is relatively small. "
Our author, however, is careful not to postulate a soul in any further
argument, but to leave it as a hypothesis (I repeat) lying outside experi
mental or naturalistic psychology, and mainly useful as a means of showing
precisely under what limitations the data with which Psychology works can
be used as though they were really valid.
In Chapter X., on "The Consciousness of Self," he returns to this
subject :—
" It is, in fact, with the word Soul as with the word Substance in general.
To say that phenomena inhere in a Substance is at bottom only to record
one's protest against the notion that the bare existence of the phenomenon
is the total truth. A phenomenon would not itself be, we insist, unless
there were something more than the phenomenon. To the more we give the
provisional name of Substance. So, in the present instance, we ought cer
tainly to admit that there is more than the bare fact of co-existence of a
passing thought with a passing brain-state. But we do not answer the ques
tion, ' What is that more ? ' when we say that it is a ' Soul ' which the brain-
state, affects. This kind of more explains nothing ; and when we are once
trying metaphysical explanations we are foolish not to go as far as we can.
For my own part, I confess that the moment I become metaphysical and try
to define the more, I find the notion of some sort of an anima mundi thinking
in all of us to be a more promising hypothesis, in spite of all its difficulties,
than that of a lot of absolutely individual souls. Meanwhile, as psychologists
we need not be metaphysical at all. The phenomena are enough, the
passing Thought itself is the only verifiable thinker, and its empirical connec
tion with the brain process is the ultimate known law."
I have quoted this passage expressly in order to indicate how very far, in
my view, the possibility of experiment may extend. The existence of an
anima mundi seems at first sight an ontological hypothesis absolutely
incapable of test. We might as well (as one has said) search for God with a
telescope as seek the World-soul in the psycho-physiological laboratory. Yet
a truer parallel may be found if we compare the supposed anima mundi to the
cosmical ether. The anima mundi, or universal consciousness, can be best con
ceived by finite consciousnesses in the aspect of a universal memory, and that
memory in the form of a universal record of past, present, and possibly even
future events. Now just as it is possible so to adjust our physical experi
ments that the action of a cosmical ether—although absolutely imperceptible
in any direct fashion—may seem the most probable explanation of certain
phenomena directly observed, so also it may be possible so to adjust our
psychical experiments that the existence of a cosmic record—although itself
absolutely incognisable in any direct fashion—may seem the most probable
explanation of certain phenomena directly observed.
120 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
Now some of the experiments on trance-conditions recorded in Pro
ceedings XVII. were precisely of the character here suggested. Statements
were made by the self-styled Dr. Phinuit—whose existence as a personality
apart from Mrs. Piper is quite unproved—containing facts not known' either
to Mrs. Piper or to any person present at the time. Professor Lodge's dis
cussion of these messages will show the great difficulty of assigning their
origin. Analogous difficulties arise in explaining the source of some of the
descriptions of facts clairvoyantly discerned of which this Part of the Pro
ceedings contains some detailed specimens. For past facts are thus discerned
as well as present ; and moreover, as I should infer from Mrs. Sidgwick's
paper on " Premonitions " (Vol. V., p. 288), it will not be easy, if any clair
voyant knowledge whatever be admitted, to deny altogether its extension
at least into the near future.
Even if this be proved, we shall still be on the very threshold of our sub
ject. But just as a study of the propagation and interference of light-waves
—depending on artifices of great complexity- -has made known to us infer-
entially, yet not the less certainly, an obscure physical entity which .we style
the cosmic ether ; so also may experiments on the propagation and interrup
tions of clairvoyant or telepathic knowledge or memory conceivably reveal
to us inferentially, but not the less certainly, an obscure psychical entity
which we can best describe to ourselves as an anima mundi or cosmic record
of all things,—quce sint, quce fuerint, qua mox ventura trahantur.
Directly connected with this cosmic problem is the problem of the insula
tion of the single intelligences thus possibly bathed in a universal psychical
medium,—of the ''closed individuality " of each living man. After a discussion
(in Chapter VIII.) of the various splittings and severances of consciousness
lately effected by Gurney, Janet, and others, the author concludes that
whatever use we may henceforth make of the idea of an individual Soul,
we must in no way prejudge the wider question of the interpenetration of
intelligences ; the relation which one mind bears to another in the dynamics
of the conscious world.
"One great use of the Soul has always been to account for, and at the
same time to guarantee, the closed individuality of each personal conscious
ness. The thoughts of one soul must unite into one self, it was supposed,
and must be eternally insulated from those of every other soul. But we
have already begun to see that, although unity is the rule of each man's
consciousness, yet in some individuals, at least, thoughts may split away from
the others and form separate selves. As for insulation, it would be rash, in
view of the phenomena of thought-transference, mesmeric influence, and
spirit-control, which are being alleged nowadays on better authority than
ever before, to be too sure about that point either. The definitively closed
condition of our personal consciousness is probably an average statistical
resultant of many conditions, but not an elementary force or fact."
Our author proceeds to illustrate these words by citing certain alterations
of memory, alternations of personality, &c, on many of which we have
already touched in these Proceedings.1 And then,—for the first time, I
think, in any accredited manual of psychology,—we come to a frank
1 Two of the most striking cases—those of Ansel Bourne and of Lurancy
Vennum—will, we hope, shortly be placed before our readers in a completeform.
Supplement.] W. James, " The Principles of Psychology." 121
recognition of the existence and the perplexing character of those so-called
" mediumistic " trances which it would be a mere shirking of difficulties for
Science any longer to ignore. And in Professor James's temper, surely,
should these puzzles be attacked ; with no desire either to minimise the
observed facts, or, on the other hand, to set them in any kind of opposition
*o facts better understood. Here, as everywhere, we must approach the
unknown through the known ; we must exhaust every existing analogy, every
Tecognised cause, before appealing to causes new to Science, or placing in a
separate basket this deep-sea shell which she has picked up from the shore
,of the ocean of Truth.
" In ' medinmships ' or 'possessions ' the invasion and the passing away of
the secondary state are both relatively abrupt, and the duration of the state
is usually short—i.e., from a few minutes to a few hours. Whenever the
secondary state is well developed no memory for aught that happened during
it remains after the primary consciousness comes back. The subject during the
secondary consciousness speaks, writes, or acts as if animated by a foreign
person and often names this foreign person and gives his history. . , .
Mediumistic possession in all its grades seems to form a perfectly natural
special type of alternate personality, and the susceptibility to it in some
form is by no means an uncommon gift, in persons who have no other
obvious nervous anomaly. The phenomena are very intricate, and are only
just beginning to be studied in a proper scientific way. ... It seems
exactly as though one author composed more than half of the trance-messages,
no matter by whom they are uttered. Whether all sub-conscious selves are
peculiarly susceptible to a certain stratum of the Zeitgeist, and get this
inspiration from it, I know not ; but this is obviously the case with the
secondary selves which become ' developed ' in Spiritualist circles. Thus the
beginnings of the medium trance are indistinguishable from effects of hyp
notic suggestion. The subject assumes the role of a medium simply because
opinion expects it of him under the conditions which are present ; and carries
it out with a feebleness or a vivacity proportionate to his histrionic gifts.
But the odd thing is that persons unexposed to Spiritualist traditions will so
often act in the same way when they become entranced, speak in the name of
the departed, go through the motions of their several death-agonies, send
messages about their happy home in the summer-land, and describe the
ailments of those present. I have no theory to publish of these cases,
several of which I have personally seen."
Difficult, indeed, must such investigation into the possible influence of
unseen intelligences in any case be. But it will not be difficult only, but
impossible,—it will lead to mere confusion and bewilderment—if it be under
taken without adequate preliminary conception of what our own person
alities, our own intelligences, are in reality and can actually do. The most
ardent Spiritist should welcome a searching inquiry into the potential
faculties of spirits still in the flesh. Until we know more of these, those
other phenomena to which he appeals must remain unintelligible because
isolated, and are likely to be obstinately disbelieved because they are
impossible to understand.
Following our author through his successive chapters, and deferring our
notice of the chapter on "Attention" until we reach the chapter on "Will,"
122 [Supplement,
F. W. H. Myers.
we find in his discussion of " Memory " a passage which, while true enough
of the psychology of our emergent mental strata, is seen to need modification
if we take into account the subjacent strata as well.
"All these pathological facts," he says, after enumerating certain
revivals of memory, which I cannot regard as all of them morbid, "are
showing us that the sphere of recollection may be wider than we think ; and
that in certain matters apparent oblivion is no proof against possible recall
under other conditions. They give no countenance, however, to the extra
vagant opinion that nothing we experience can be absolutely forgotten."
It would be extravagant, no doubt, to affirm this dogmatically ; but I see
no extravagance in the conjecture that no lapse of memory can be irrevocable.
From the superficial strata of our mind, we may say, memories slip down
wards to uncertain depths. But to what depths they sink, or by what
stimulus they may possibly be recalled, is a question approachable only by
experiment,—and by a class of experiments which are as yet in their infancy.
Even now we have found one artifice after another—hypnotic trance, auto
matic writing, crystal vision—alike successful in fishing up from abysses as.
yet unfathomed much which we supposed either to have been forgotten for
ever, or never to have been known at all.
Most promising of all, perhaps, are the careful experiments in the
induction of hallucinatory pictures by gazing into reflecting surfaces,
described under the title of "crystal-gazing," in Proceedings, XIV. These
experiments show that a printed sentence which has come within the visual
field, but which cannot easily be supposed to have attracted conscious attention,
may be observed, retained, and reproduced as a hallucinatory image by the
submerged self, which may thus send up to the empirical self a message of
practical value. Is it not safest, with such facts in view, to say that although
all memories, unless frequently revived, tend to slip from out of the control
of the empirical self, we have no proof that they can escape entirely from
the total or transcendental personality ? So that all that we have been
maybe a part of us for ever, and the "lost days of our life," as in the
poet's allegory, may meet us with undeadened remorsefulness on some
further shore :—
" And I, and I thyself,"—lo each one saith,—
,' And thou thyself to all eternity.'
Where the floating iceberg meets the sea there is no internal line of
stratification. The proportion of submergence is determined by nothing in
the iceberg's essential structure, but solely by the relation between the
specific gravities of water in different states. Even so the water-line between
the empirical and the subjacent consciousness in man may be determined by
no break of continuity in the processes which take place within him, but
merely by the relation which his transcendental self bears to the material
world in which it is immersed. There is no obvious reason why we should
not, by suitable inquiry, bring the bulk of these hidden processes under the
cognisance of the empirical inquiring self. But we must remember that in
such a quest we must not trust to Nature's aid. Nature is propagandist, not
scientific ; she has fitted us out to use her hidden processes for our own and
our kind's preservation, not to pry into and understand them with mere
knowledge as our end and aim. If, therefore, we wish to know as well as to
Supplement.} W. James, "The Principles of Psychology." 123
be, we must everywhere replace instinct and sensation by artifice and infer
ence. By artifice and inference our field of consciousness may be extended
as widely as by instrument and calculation we have extended our field of
vision. We know already that consciousness is not the trustworthy thing
which it seems, but is a most distorted and incomplete reflection of the
world which it professes to mirror. We may now realise on the other
hand that—distorted and incomplete as our inward transcript of reality
must ever be—there is at any rate more of it than we knew ; that what
we have to decipher is not a mere manuscript full of blots and lacunae, but
rather a series of superimposed and as yet undeveloped impressions upon an
infinitely sensitive and infinitely receptive plate.
And now we advance to a question more complex still. Whence come
the impressions on that plate ? In what way can we distinguish the plate's.
own blots or markings from the lines and shadings ' which indicate that a
real object has been in front of the camera? The practical answer, indeed,
is simple enough. Whatever impression all plates simultaneously exposed
reproduce, this represents a real object ; the markings inherent in the plate
itself will be different for each plate in turn. Objective and subjective
impressions, plain men will say, can only be confounded when practical
difficulties prevent us from testing the experience of one mind by the.
experience of another.
"There is," says our author in his chapter on "Imagination" (Vol..
II., p. 70), " between imagined objects and felt objects a difference-
of conscious quality, which may be called almost absolute. It is hardly
possible to confound the liveliest image of fancy with the weakest real
sensation. The felt object has a plastic reality and outwardness which the
imagined object wholly lacks. Moreover, as Fechner says, in imagination
the attention feels as if drawn backward to the brain ; in sensation (even
of after-images) it is directed forward toward the sense-organ. The
difference between the two processes feels like one of kind, and not like a
mere ' more ' or ' less ' of the same."
Certain experimental facts, however, show that this broad distinction is.
not always valid, and "force us to admit that the subjective difference
between imagined and felt objects is less absolute than has been claimed, and
that the cortical processes which underlie imagination and sensation are not
quite so discrete as one at first is tempted to suppose. That peripheral
sensory processes are ordinarily involved in imagination seems improbable ;
that they may sometimes be aroused from the cortex downwards cannot,
however, be dogmatically denied."
In thus deciding, Professor James does but reproduce the view which
(quite apart from any belief in telepathy, &c.) is becoming general among
psychologists. The cortex of the brain, the seat of our highest faculties,,
may itself originate hallucinatory percepts, without any derangement of the
special organs of sense. This fact is, of course, what believers in telepathy—,
in veridical hallucinations—would anticipate ; and it suggests some curious
reflections as to the relation between the knowledge which reaches us.
through the sense-organs ; and the knowledge which reaches us in hallucina
tory fashion, and without any apparent sensory intervention. I will venture
to explain my meaning by aid of a somewhat homely metaphor.
126 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
subliminal self in supernormal ways. I have suggested that such faculty of
knowledge may be innate as well as acquired ; and that observation or
experiment may reveal in us traces of an experience which no terrene history
will explain.
I believe that besides telepathy, or the acquirement of knowledge by
supersensory transmission from other minds, there exists in nature the
cognate (or perhaps more generalised) power of clairvoyance, or the acquire
ment of knowledge by supersensory perception of facts or scenes, not
necessarily as existing in other minds, but as discerned by an innate per
ceptivity of the clairvoyant's own, exercised in various ways, but mainly by
a quasi-visual—I do not say an optical—act of perception.
And herein our recorded cases fall roughly into two groups : (A) where
the periphery was apparently used for jjerception, but used in a way of which
physiology can give no account (as where Professor Fontan's subject discerned
the colours of wools in pitch darkness, or through glass, and with a screen
interposed, but only when he touched the glass with his fingers) ; and (B)
when the peripheral nerves seem to play no part, but the clairvoyant has
direct perception of three-dimensional scenes at a distance. Such quasi-visual
perception, like quasi-visual perception resulting from telepathic impact, is
attended by striking anomalies, which illustrate what I have called the non-
optical character of the vision attained.
It is obvious that a belief in clairvoyance, if in any degree admitted,
must profoundly modify our whole theory of the genesis of space-perception.
It does not, indeed, constrain us to deny either that space may be a necessary
" form of intuition," or that our conception of space may be the result of
experience alone ; but it sets back that form of intuition, it removes that
experience, to some non-terrene, and perhaps pre-terrene source. It seems
that in conditions other than those to which sensory evolution has led, we
can conceive, or have conceived of space as real, and are still able, in certain
states, to deal with space with a freedom which waking experience has never
known.
One direction in which a view of this kind is open to searching test
lies in the study of the conception of space formed by the blind. We
could not, indeed, be confident a priori that the faculty of clairvoyance,
however real, could subsist without the existence in the mind of a stock of
ordinary visual images which the supernormal vision might in some sort
employ. Yet if, as I hold, there be in us a reserve of latent perceptive
power, antecedent to sensory specialisation, we shall expect this power to
show itself here and there by novel channels where specialised sense is in
default.
(1) Thus, in the case of the blind, we shall not only be prepared for all
kinds of auditory, tympanic, tactile hyperaesthesia, but we shall not be '
surprised if we come upon cases of vicarious function carried beyond ordinary
physiological limits, and analogous to the alleged epigastric, frontal, or digital
discriminations of somnambulic clairvoyance. Just as in cases of cerebral
mutilation we held it possible that recovery of function, due to vicarious
action of uninjured tracts, might be such as only a directing con
sciousness could have effected, so with the blind also we shall conceive
that the relation of the organism to the directing consciousness may be a
supplement.] W. James, " The Principles of Psychology." 127
relation resembling—not that of the instrument to the workman who made
it, but that of the instrument to the savant who experiments with it, and who
may put certain parts of it to novel uses which the workman (represented in
our case by the natural selection which has shaped our terrene frames) did
not specifically contemplate, or could not himself have devised.
(2) Again, we shall expect our supposed innate perceptive power to show
itself in the blind in all those channels through which the sub-liminal self is
wont to send up messages to the superficial consciousness. All forms of
dream and hallucination (whether veridical or falsidical) are thus likely, in
my view, to possess for the blind or the partially blind a higher visual quality
than their waking perceptions can realise or their waking memories recall.
Nay, I will push the hypothesis to an extremity, and conjecture that the
blind man will be capable of hallucinations which will be so far from being
revivals of memory that they will be such as no memory of his can explain.
He will exercise a sight which he does not recognise as sight, which belongs in
fact to that pre-natal undifferentiated continuum of perceptive faculty of
which telepathic and clairvoyant phenomena show us the vestigial or
obsolescent trace.
On all these points there were much to say ; in spite of the scantiness
of appropriate observations thus far made upon the blind. But I will
confine myself to illustrations drawn from Professor James's book—a
treatise assuredly not written to support any such thesis as I am now
suggesting.
First, then, as to the replacement of a quasi-visual perception by nerves
apparently unsuited to the task, without aid either from tympanic pressure,
,or from a sense of differing temperatures. Professor James quotes from Mr.
W. Hanks Levy, known as a blind man who has worked for the welfare of the
blind :—
" Whether within a house or in the open air, whether walking or standing
still,I can tell, although quite blind, when I am opposite an object, and can
perceive whether it be tall or short, slender or bulky. I can also detect
whether it be a solitary object or a continuous fence ; whether it be a close
fence or composed of open rails ; and often whether it be a wooden fence, a
brick or stone wall, or a quick-set hedge. . . . The currents of air can
have nothing to do with this power, as the state of the wind does not
directly affect it ; the sense of hearing has nothing to do with it, as when
snow lies thickly on the ground objects are more distinct, although the footfall
cannot be heard. I seem to perceive objects through the skin of my face,
and to have the impressions immediately transmitted to my brain. Stopping
my ears does not interfere with it, but covering my face with a thick veil
destroys it altogether. None of the five senses have anything to do with
the existence of this power, and the circumstances above named induce
me to call this unrecognised sense by the name of facial perception."
I must not here go into further detail. Enough has been quoted to
illustrate the parallel already suggested between the modes of perceptivity
with which the directing consciousness—using the bodily frame as the
savant uses his instrument—endeavours to replace the special sense-organ
which the blind have lost, and the modes of perceptivity which the
transcendental self employs in clairvoyant vision, when the normal opera
128 [Supplement.
F. TF. H. Myers.
tion of the sense-organ is occluded by mechanical means, or shut off into
temporary abeyance by the conditions of trance.
I pass on to the second point,—the manifestations in the blind of a latent
quasi-visual perceptivity, which does not (as with Mr. Levy's "facial per
ception ") rise above the threshold into the habitual use of the superficial
consciousness, but is discernible only in those " messages " or intimations
which sometimes reach the upper life from that laboratory of mingled dream
and wisdom which is ever at work below.
And here the narrative which I must cite from Professor James's book is
in itself so bizarre, and fits with such singular and, so to say, improbable
aptitude into the chain of my argument, that I would willingly have led up
to it by many references to the behaviour of hallucinatory percepts occur
ring under more ordinary conditions. Space, however, forbids me to do
more than remind my reader that hallucinatory vision has often shown itself
independent of the conditions of ordinary vision, and that the subliminal
visualising power has proved itself more vivid than the visualising power
under the control of the conscious will. The percipient, for instance, will
seem to see the hallucinatory figure in a position quite outside his possible
field of vision ; the crystal-gazer—sometimes (as would appear) even in dark
ness—will see figures evolve themselves which far surpass in vividness of
colouring and truth of motion anything which his normal faculty could
evoke.
Who shall say, until experiences like these have been intelligently sought
for, that even the following incident, which occurred to a friend of Professor
James', may not have many parallels ?
" The subject of the observation, Mr. P.," says Professor James, " is an
exceptionally intelligent wtiness, though the words of the narrative are his.
wife's."
" Mr. P. has all his life been the occasional subject of rather singular
delusions or impressions of various kinds. If I had belief in the existence,
of latent or embryo faculties, other than the five senses, I should explain
them on that ground. Being totally blind, his other perceptions are
abnormally keen and developed, and given the existence of a rudimentary
sixth sense, it would be only natural that this also should be more acute in
him than in others. One of his most interesting experiences in this line was.
the frequent apparition of a corpse some years ago. ... It was a very
familiar occurrence with him while in the midst of work to feel a cool draught
of air suddenly upon his face, with a prickling sensation at the roots of his
hair, when he would turn from the piano, and a figure which he knew to be
dead would come sliding under the crack of the door from without, flattening
itself to squeeze through, and rounding out again to the human form. It was
of a middle-aged man, and drew itself along the carpet on hands and knees,
but with head thrown back, till it reached the sofa, upon which it stretched
itself. . . . Mr. P. afterwards traced the whole experience to strong
tea. He was in the habit of taking cold tea, which always stimulates him,
for lunch, and on giving up this practice he never saw this or any other
apparition again. . . . There is one point which is still wholly
inexplicable. Mr. P. has no memory whatever of sight, nor conception of it.
It is impossible for him to form any idea of what we mean by light or
supplement.] W. James, " The Principles of Psychology." 129
colour. ... When he becomes aware of the presence of a person or an
object, by means which seem mysterious to outsiders, he can always trace it
to slight echoes perceptible only to his keen ears, or to differences in
atmospheric pressure, perceptible only to his acute nerves of touch ; but with
the apparition described, for the only time in his experience, he was aware
of presence, size, and appearance, without the use of either of these
mediums. The figure never produced the least sound, nor came within a
number of feet of his person ; yet he knew that it was a man, that it moved,
and in what direction ; even that it wore a full beard, which, like the thick
curly hair, was partially grey ; also that it was dressed in the style of suit
known as ' pepper and salt. ' These points were all perfectly distinct and
invariable each time. If asked how he perceived them, he will answer that
he cannot tell ; he simply knew it, and so strongly and so distinctly that it
is impossible to shake his opinion as to the exact details of the man's
appearance. It would seem that in this delusion of the senses he really saw,
as he has never done in the actual experiences of life, except in the first two
years of childhood."
"On cross-examining Mr. P.," adds Professor James, "I could not make
out that there was anything like visual imagination involved, although he was
quite unable to describe in just what terms the false perception was carried
on."
I must pass on to the theme of some of our author's most striking
chapters,—the question as to what the conscious will can control, what is
involved in its so-called freedom, or negated by its subjection to inevitable
law.
And in the first place we may fully agree with our author in holding that
"effort of attention is the essential phenomenon of will." (Vol. II., p. 562.)
There is no need to postulate anything beyond this. If our supposed
agency external to the molecular forces can dominate the attention, its
victory is won ; it has its hand on the lever which sets in motion all the
work of body and mind.
In his chapter on "Attention" our author gives clear expression to this
view.
"When we reflect that the turnings of our attention form the nucleus of
our inner self ; when we see that volition is nothing but attention ; when we
believe that our autonomy in the midst of nature depends on our not being
pure effect, but a cause,—
Principium quoddam quod fati fsedera rumpat,
Ex infinite ne causam causa sequatur—
we must admit that the question whether attention involve such a principle
of spiritual activity or not is metaphysical as well as psychological, and is
well worthy of all the pains we can bestow on its solution. It is, in fact, the
pivotal question of metaphysics, the very hinge on which our picture of the
world shall swing from materialism, fatalism, monism, towards Spiritualism,
freedom, pluralism,—or else the other way." (Vol. I., p. 447.)
And now what influence will the views which I have advocated exert on
our attitude towards this central problem ?
They will not, assuredly, tempt us to suppose that we can answer the
ultimate, the cosmic question as to the free or fated pathways along which
K
130 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
each individual being moves in the vastness of the All. Rather, we shall
perceive with new clearness that the question is insoluble, that even when
the materialist view of man is set aside, the problem of liberty is but
removed into a region whither no experiment can pursue it.
But so far as the terrene aspect of that problem goes—the question as to
what goes on in man's brain when he wills an action—our effort will be to
reduce this to an experimental question by correlating it, if possible, with
other problems which admit of a more direct experimental attack.
''Effort of attention, " we are agreed with Profesor Jnmes, ''is the essential
phenomenon of will." The direction of attention one way or the other
depends immediately, we must suppose, on the determination of certain
molecular movements in the brain. The question of the independence of
our will (as a terrene cause) resolves itself, therefore, into a question whether
molecular movements are ever determined by a cause other than any known
molecular force. I leave aside for the present the question whether all
molecular movements whatever must not originally, and in the last resort,
have been determined by some cause other than any molecular force which we
know. I waive also the question as to whether any non-human or disembodied
agency can ever be detected as influencing incarnate minds, or molecular
matter. But confining ourselves to mind and matter as we know them, it is
plain that there are three ways in which a determination of molecular (or
even molar) movement by causes outside known molecular forces could con
ceivably be exerted. There may be determination within the subject's own
mind or brain—which would be the act of free-will which we are discussing.
There may be a determination exercised from one mind or brain upon
another. And there may be a determination exercised from one or more
minds or brains upon the ponderable matter of the world.
All these three cases will be analogous ; so far analogous at least that the
materialistic objections which apply to one apply to all. When Clifford
maintains that " if anybody says that the will influences matter, the state
ment is not untrue, but it is nonsense," we are equally obnoxious to his
scorn whether we uphold the freedom of the will, or the induction of trance
at a distance, or the movement of tables without contact when certain persons
wish them to move.
I may, then, choose my own ground for the controversy ; and since the
freedom of the will seems to me not directly provable, and the telekinetic
movement of objects not yet adequately proved, I will select the second
of the three cases, and will endeavour to meet Clifford's a priori negation by
a proof, not concealed in the depths of our own mental life, but definite and
capable of repetition, of the kind of influence which he means to deny.
" It will be found excellent practice," Clifford observes, " in the mental
operations required by this doctrine, to imagine a train, the fore part of
which is an engine and three carriages linked with iron couplings, and the
hind part three other carriages linked with iron couplings ; the bond between
the two parts being made up of the sentiments of amity subsisting between
the stoker and the guard."
To this I reply that in 1885 I actually saw a train of this composition
move over a distance of more than one kilometre.
When Dr. Gibert, of Havre, did, at the request of certain inquirers, of
supplement] W. James, "The Principles of Psychology." 131
"whom I was one, and at an hour drawn by us by lot from a bag, entrance
Madame B. at a distance of nearly a mile, and by an "effort of will" drew
her, without previous warning, to traverse in the hypnotic slumber the
streets which led from her abode to his, I then witnessed an operation of
which one terminal portion consisted in the normal action of Dr. Gibert's
brain, attending to the idea of Madame B.'s entrancement and approach, and
another terminal portion consisted of the normal movement of Madame B. 's
legs in response to a stimulus sent down from her motor centres. These
were, to use Clifford's metaphor, concatenations of nervous changes as
material and as definite as the iron couplings which link up the two halves of
the train. But what was the influence which passed from one end of the
train to the other ? which carried the impulse from Dr. Gibert's study to the
room where Madame B. sat at work ? It was the telepathic impact,—it was
" the sentiment of amity subsisting between the stoker and the guard."
I am in no way able, and I am in no way bound, to say more definitely
what kind of influence this telergy, or telepathic impact, may actually be.
I will not call it (unless for mere brevity's sake) a force or energy ; for we have
no certain proof that it can overcome inertia or do mechanical work. It may
determine the exercise of pre-existing forces in some fashion to which words
like these do not apply. I will only say that we have here, as it seems to
me, an overt and provable effect of the will on another mind which
resembles that hidden and unprovable effect of the will on its own mind
which we are endeavouring somehow to come at. If Dr. Gibert's " will
power" could influence Madame B.'s organism, why not suppose that it could
influence his own organism ? Why should there not be another of those
impalpable " couplings " before we come to the material couplings which
represented the fixed attention of his own brain 1 That transcendental
power, for aught we know, may have influenced the physician all his life long
as potently as his patient for an hour.
And yet, as I have already implied, even were all this granted, although
we should have proved the transcendental origin of the will, we should not
have proved its transcendental freedom. Suppose that a soul within me
determines my choice of bodily actions by suggestions, resembling Dr.
Gibert's "mental suggestion" to Madame B., which interfere with the course
which my body, if a pure automaton, would have followed. Yet who can
tell me that this soul of mine is itself free ? The gods of Olympus descended
with mastering energy into the Trojan fray ; but behind them were the
Fates, fixing from eternity the issue of all that gods could do. Who knows
what world-old history, what cosmic law, may now be prompting the very
impulses of my transcendental self, and embracing not my terrene existence
only, but unnumbered existences, past and future, in one inevitable doom 1
The problem is transported into the order of infinity ; we can mark its course
as it escapes us, but we can do no more.
Somewhat similar are the reflections suggested by our author's closing
chapter on '' Psychogenesis, "—an attempt '' to ascertain just how far the con
nections of things in the outward environment can account for our tendency
to think of, and to react upon, certain things in certain ways and in no others,
even though personally we have had of the things in question no experience,
or almost no experience, at all." He concludes that " the features of our
K 2
132 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
organic mental structure cannot be explained at all by our conscious inter
course with our environment, but must rather be understood as congenital
variations ' accidental ' in the first instance [as belonging to a cycle of causa
tion inaccessible to the present order of research] but then transmitted as
fixed features of the race."
Surely to say that human experience, reacting upon the impressions
which Nature's laws convey, will explain the whole structure of human
thought, is like saying that the past moves in a game of chess, with the
known powers of the pieces, will explain the actual position of the game.
Of course in order to understand that position we need also to know in what
arrangement the pieces were placed at first upon the board.
All the present arrangements of the cosmos—not least its highest known
arrangements, the minds of men,—depend ultimately on a determination of
potentialities before all human experience, and at the origin of things, which
decided that heredity, for instance, should work in this fashion and in no
other,— that the forces which build the living organism should dispose them
selves along these and no other lines. Man's brain is adapted to harbour
certain thoughts, as his blood is adapted to harbour certain microbes, not as.
the result of terrene experience, or of the survival of the fittest, but because
the first arrangement of the kindling fire-cloud was such that all this must be.
The original determination, I say, of natural forces was as essential an
element in shaping the cosmic future as was the nature of those forces them
selves. And who shall say what cause directed the distribution of atoms in
the primitive nebula t or endowed those atoms with the capacity of evolving
into not a dragon but a man ? None can affirm that Soul was not there, and
was not all ; and generated the age-long procession of cause and change, ami
bade the hurtling atoms rain through the unlitten void.
Illusory indeed is any attempt to simplify, to explain away, these
ultimate mysteries. They must be faced, and not forgotten, when any
philosophy approaches the universe with a too readily turning key. They
must be faced and not forgotten by those who frankly desire to base all
knowledge on experiment and observation ; aye, though the experiment
suggested, the observation made, should strike on the ears of modern Science
with a strangely mystical ring. Which is the mystical, which the scientific-
course ?—on the one hand to ignore these deeper problems, to leave them to
faith or to speculative conjecture ; or, on the other hand, to attack them
with conscious weakness indeed, conscious inadequacy, but with the same
weapons which in abler hands have laid many a lesser fortress low ? There
is no novelty in the suggestion that there is a Soul in man. What is novel
is merely the attempt to give a precise, an experimental character to this
old hypothesis ; to define our psychical conceptions by actual observation of
effects not traceable to physical forces, rather than by any a priori imagina
tions of what a soul must be.
Such has been the leading thought of this review. But in fairness to our
author it must be remembered that the review has been expressly and
intentionally one-sided and partial in its scope. It would be unjust to
Professor James to suppose that a mystical tinge overspreads his treatise.
On the contrary, that treatise is distinguished throughout by its adherence
to the methods of natural science—by its copious and constant reference to
supplement.] W. James, " The Principles of Psychology." 133
proved or provable fact. I do not presume to assign Professor James's
intellectual rank among past or present philosophers. But it is a mere
matter of fact that no other treatise in our language contains a discussion so
candid and so competent of so great a mass of psychological experiment
and observation. It is the very abundance of the material offered, the
fairness of the treatment, which has enabled me from my point of view, and
will enable others from standpoints wholly different, to find so much in this
treatise on which to dwell. " Hie liber est," one may say, as one ought to
be able to say of any comprehensive textbook of an experimental science as
yet in its first stage of tentative immaturity—
Hie liber est in quo quaerit sua dogmata quisque,
Invenit et pariter dogmata quisque sua.
An experimental science in its infancy ;—such is the impression which
,we derive from the book throughout. From every page it suggests to us the
absolute need, the entire feasibility, of an immense and many-sided exten
sion of definite psychological experiment. Its students assuredly will have
no excuse for lingering in the antiquated notion that philosophy is a kind of
polygonal duel between "systematic thinkers," whose opinions are to be the
stock-in-trade of subsequent philosophers, until one of these can strike
out a new system of his own.
In every science there must be two main stages, the first, of such
speculation as man's unaided observation suggests ; the second, of such
definite experiment as that speculation has in its turn suggested. In some
sciences the experiment can begin almost at once, and the preceding
speculations are soon superseded and forgotten. In psychology, on the
other hand, the preliminary speculation was unusually difficult and impor
tant ; nay, much of it was in its nature experimental, and was destined to
remain as a substantial part of the final structure. Locke and Kant
assuredly carried psychology further than Thales or Anaximander were able
to carry physics. But nevertheless, by the mere advance and example of
cognate or ancillary sciences, a change resembling that which has passed
over physics is even now passing over psychology. As its biological basis
grows firmer, it is developing (I believe) into the great experimental inquiry
of the coming century, in some such sense as biology itself has been the
great experimental inquiry of the century which is passing away.
From no quarter will the progress of experiments be more eagerly watched
than by those who in these Proceedings have advocated views too often
associated with imperious dogma or blank obscurantism. All that we desire
is that psychological experiment and observation shall.be absolutely catholic,
absolutely unfettered by foregone conclusions, or by that "contempt prior
to examination " which has delayed so many discoveries a generation beyond
their time. From the boldest and the most faithful interrogation of nature
our own inquiries, as we believe, can have nothing to lose, and may have
everything to gain.
134 [Supplement.
Short Notices of Books.
II.
SHORT NOTICES OP BOOKS.
Sehriften der Gesellschaft fiir Psychologisclie Forschung. Erstes Heft,
(Leipzig: Abel. 1891.)
We learn from a prefatory note that the Munich '' Psychologische Gesell-
schaft" and the "Gesellschaft fiir Experimental-Psychologie zu Berlin" united
in November last, and formed a German "Gesellschaft fiir Psychologische
Forschung." It is needless to say that this new society will meet with a
cordial welcome from the English S.P.R., and that we shall look forward to
their publications with warm interest.
The present volume of 90 pages is the first joint publication. It is
edited by Dr. Max Dessoir, whose name is a sufficient guarantee of know
ledge and care. For the next number several papers are promised, of which
two at least should be of great interest to our members. One by Dr. A
Moll, on "Rapport in Hypnosis," and another by Dr. Otto von Leixner,
entitled " Experimental Researches in Dream-life." In the present number
are two papers, both containing matter of interest, though not of primary
importance.
The first is by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing, a name already familiar in
England. It deals with the importance of the use of narcotics in hypnosis.
The author shows, partly from his own experiments, partly from the publica
tions of Voisin, Wetterstrand, and others, the marked analogy which exists
between the lighter degrees of hypnosis and the earlier stages of narcotism
and intoxication. In some cases a few respirations of chloroform are
sufficient to bring about such an increase of suggestibility that complete
anaesthesia is produced by suggestion alone, and further administration of the
drug is needless. It is of considerable importance to know that persons who
normally are refractory subjects for the hypnotiser can often be brought
easily under control by the exhibition of a weak narcotic ; and that the
same means will often enable the phenomena of deep hypnosis to be induced
where the ordinary physical procedure does not succeed in bringing about
more than the initial stages. The matter has a theoretical interest as well
as casting light on the relations between natural and hypnotic sleep.
The second part of the paper contains the author's main contribution to
the subject. He has been making some experiments on the psychical effects
of hashish—or rather of the Extractum Cannabis Indicw of the German phar
macopoeia. In one or two cases he met with great success. The adminis
tration of 3 or 4 grammes of the drug brought about a condition of extreme
suggestibility, without any of the common hypnotic processes. Post-narcotic
suggestions were carried out just like post-hypnotic. All the ordinary phe
nomena, catalepsy, hallucination, hyperaesthesia, analgesia, &c. , were obtained
without difficulty. The effect of Indian hemp, which produces a gradual
weakening of will-power, while only partially affecting consciousness and
Supplement.] 135
Short Notices of Books.
memory, makes it a particularly interesting agent for the investigation of the
psychical conditions of suggestibility, and the reader will find it interesting
to follow Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's detailed account of his experiments.
The second paper, by Dr. Forel, of Zurich, is of a different nature, but
perhaps at the moment of more immediate interest to the English Society.
A certain Frau Fay, of Basel, an uneducated woman, was arrested by the
Zurich police as a swindler, and referred to Dr. Forel as an expert for an
opinion upon her physical state and moral responsibility. He here prints at
length the opinion which he gave. She is a woman of 57, who since her
15th year has been subject twice a day to attacks of involuntary trance. In
these she shows all the familiar symptoms of change of personality. She
professes to be controlled by a spirit named Ernst, and in this state has
been in the habit of acting as a medical clairvoyant, and giving advice to the
numerous persons who consulted her as to their ailments. Dr. Forel came
unhesitatingly to the conclusion that the woman was in her normal state
perfectly honest ; that the trances were not simulated, but arose from involun
tary auto-suggestion, and that she was not liable to punishment as a swindler.
On the other hand, the few experiments which he tried showed no sign of
clairvoyance or lucidity of any kind. Nothing was observed beyond a con
siderable shrewdness in acting on the little hints and suggestions given her,
purposely or involuntarily, by her patients. Dr. Forel found little difficulty
in bringing her into a state of obedience to suggestion, and succeeded for a
time by this means in curing her of her daily trances ; but he adds in a note
that these have since recurred, as he expected would be the case, when she
had been long enough absent for the effect of his suggestions to wear off.
One cannot help wishing that a little more pains had been taken to inquire
into her powers when in the second state. The few experiments recorded,
which seem to be all that were made, are hardly sufficient, in the light of
recent experience, to justify an entirely negative conclusion as to possible
lucidity.
A still more explicit and welcome recognition of the work of our Society
is to be found in the preface which introduces Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's
translation of Professor Richet's " Relation de Diverses Experiences sur la
Transmission Mentale "under the title " Experimentelle Studien auf dem
Gebiete der GedaiAen Ubertragung." The original work needs no notice here as
it was in the pages of these Proceedings that it was originally published.
(See Vol. V., pp. 18-108.) The preface, however, contains some very welcome
new matter, in the shape of a brief review of the most important utterances
on the subject of thought-transference, to which Continental physiologists
have committed themselves. This forms a very convenient summary of the
present state of the question, and shows very clearly how the seed sown by
the S.P.R. is slowly but surely germinating on the Continent. In France
it may almost be said to be beginning to nourish, thanks, of course, before
all, to Richet himself. In Italy it has made a beginning under Professor
Lombroso ; and in Germany Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing bids fair to give it
the position in the scientific world which, up to the present, it cannot be
said to have attained. But we must call attention to one important member
of the European concert which Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing has overlooked—
136 [Supplement.
Short Notices of Books.
Russia. We should much have liked one of his brief and sober expressions
of his opinion on the work of our colleague, Mr. Aksakoff.
W. Leaf.
Annales des Sciences Psych iques : Mecueil d'Observations et d'Experiences,
paraissant tons les deux mois. Edited by Dr. Dariex. No. 1, January and
February. 1891. (Paris : F«ix Alcan.)
The above is the title of a new periodical which is likely to prove a
valuable coadjutor in the researches which the S.P.R. was founded to
prosecute. It aims at forming a centre to which well-evidenced accounts of
observed facts or experiments, bearing on the various departments of
psychical research, may be sent.
Its plan seems to be in some respects intermediate between our own
Journal and Proceedings, giving like the former isolated cases of apparent
telepathy, premonitions, &c, but including, like the latter, longer papers
criticising, analysing and classifying the information received ; also recording
systematic experiments. All premature theory—all preconceived opinion—
all dogmatism is to be avoided. The object in view is to ascertain the facts.
The present number contains an interesting introductory letter from
Professor Charles Richet to the Editor, discussing the scope and objects of
the Annales, an article by Dr. Dariex on the method of observation in cases
of spontaneous telepathy, four original cases of apparent telepathy, all good,
and two of them of special interest, and further cases taken from our own
publications, &c.
We can confidently recommend the Annales to our readers, and may
mention that arrangements are in progress by which a limited number of
copies may be obtainable for the use of members of the S.P.R. at a
reduced rate. In view of this possibility, early application is invited.
Ed.
Supplement.] 137
Circular No. IV.
To Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical Research.
CIRCULAR No. IV.
19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C.
HYPNOTISM: ITS CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
So many sensational and exaggerated reports of the effects and the
dangers of hypnotism have recently appeared in the public Press that a brief
and sober statement of what, so far as our present knowledge extends,
hypnotism can actually effect may perhaps be beneficial.
It should be borne in mind, in the first place, that the hypnotic state is
not, in the ordinary sense of the word, morbid. It has many affinities with
natural sleep, and in many of the discomforts of illness may be made to lead
up to it with great relief. Those who are strong and healthy are hypnotised
as readily, cceteris paribus, as those who are weak or in bad health.
In the next place, Englishmen would appear to be less susceptible to
the influence than the inhabitants of some Continental countries. Bernheim,
LWbeault, Ochorowicz, and the Dutch observers place the proportion of
hypnotisable persons as high as 70 or 80 per cent. , including in these figures
some cases where the effects are very trifling ; but the results of English
experiments would, thus far, indicate a considerably smaller proportion.
Thirdly, it is tolerably certain—whatever may be the case with Orientals—
that a healthy Englishman or Englishwoman cannot in the first instance be
hypnotised without his or her full knowledge and consent.
Supposing this consent to have been given, and the subject to have
proved susceptible to the influence, the following physical phenomena, or
some of them, according to the idiosyncrasies of the individual, may be
observed : He will fall into a condition somewhat resembling the drowsiness
of natural sleep, though he may answer questions easily and some of his
senses may be specially acute. His limbs may remain perfectly limp and
motionless (lethargy), or they may be moulded into any position at the
pleasure of the operator (catalepsy), and may even be made perfectly rigid.
138 [Supplement.
Circular No. IV.
This rigidity may be maintained much longer than in a natural state, and
without the muscular tremor which would naturally occur after a few
minutes if he were not hypnotised. Lastly, the patient may be made in
sensitive, in the whole body, or in any part of it, to touch (anaesthesia) or
pain (analgesia), even without losing consciousness.
These muscularand nervous phenomena maynot occur in their full develop
ment during the initial stages of hypnotism, or in its lighter forms. But
the almost invariable characteristic of the hypnotic state is the susceptibility
of the subject to suggestions from without. It is this characteristic
which gives the chief value to hypnotism as a therapeutic agent, and which
forms the source of its chief dangers, real or imaginary. In this state
illusions of the senses, the memory, or the will, may be imposed upon the
patient ; sleep may be induced, and pain and nervous disabilities of
various kinds may be removed. But the influence thus exerted by the
operator may be made to extend beyond the actual period of the hypnotic
sleep. Pain and physical discomfort may be got rid of for a considerable
period ; the healthful activity of the bodily functions may be assisted, and
injurious habits, such as drunkenness and morphinism, may be effectually
broken off. The striking results, for instance, obtained by Dr. Bramwell, of
Goole, in producing temporary insensibility to pain, and by the Rev. Arthur
Tooth in the treatment of inebriety, afford very recent examples of what can
be effected in these directions.
It is important to remember that hypnotic suggestion is simply an
exaggerated example of what takes place in the normal state, and can
produce only results similar in kind. In a few persons, indeed, presumably
of an abnormal type, suggestion in an apparently waking state operates with
equal facility, and self-suggestion is by no means rare. The cases of "mind-
cure " and "faith-healing" may probably be attributed to these causes. But
reports of such cases, unless attested by experienced medical evidence, must
of course be received with reserve.
The memory of what has taken place in the hypnotic state rarely persists
into the waking life, and this characteristic offers occasion for the most
striking results. Whatever undertaking the subject can be induced to
promise in a deep hypnotic state he will faithfully perform after waking, and
will believe that in so doing he is acting as a free agent. But the liability of
the normal and well-balanced subject to be influenced by suggestion has been
much exaggerated. The operator will generally require patience and per
sistence to overcome even those habits which the subject wishes to be over
come. Ideas of an indifferent or beneficial nature will, no doubt, be readily
received, but the moral sentiments, and even in many minor cases, the fear
of ridicule, will often operate to annul hurtful or ignominious suggestions.
From what has been said it will be seen that, though the probable evils of
hypnotism have been much exaggerated, there are serious dangers to be
guarded against. It is indeed by no means a subject to be played with.
I. It is possible for an ill disposed person to take advantage of the
physical helplessness of the subject, or to obtain an undue influence, which
may be used to the subject's disadvantage. But dangers of the kind need
only be indicated to be avoided. It should be made a rule that no person
Supplement.] 139
Circular No. IV.
should submit himself to hypnotic treatment unless accompanied by a friend.
It is clear that no one should place himself in the power of another at all
unless he can fully trust in the other's discretion and integrity. Nor should
anyone suffer himself to be hypnotised except for therapeutic or scientific
purposes. In the rare cases of persons who, through a long course of
hypnotic treatment, have become unduly susceptible, it is no doubt desirable
to take special precautions. In such cases a fresh hypnotisation by a doctor
or other responsible person, and then a suggestion by the new operator that
no one but himself can influence the subject, has been shown to be effectual
in shutting out the undesirable influence for a considerable time. The high
value of such counter suggestions in relieving anyone who is inconvenienced
by the dominance of any operator has only recently been acknowledged, and
deserves special mention.
II. There are also dangers arising from ignorance or carelessness on the
part of the operator. Of these the principal are : (a) The so-called Cross-
Mesmerism. If the patient come under the influence of more than one person
during a single sitting, as may happen with a sensitive subject if merely
handled by other persons, a peculiar condition is sometimes induced, of which
the characteristics are violent movements and physical contortions, and
refusal to yield to suggestions and commands from any source. It is
extremely difficult to arouse the patient from this state, which generally
leaves behind it headache and physical discomfort, not removable, as is
generally the case, by suggestion, (b) Imperfect Awakening. It not un
commonly happens, with an inexperienced operator, that the subject is
allowed to depart, at the conclusion of the experiment, before being fully
aroused. He is thus rendered liable to all the discomforts and mischances
which may befall a person not in full possession of his normal consciousness.
It is also safer to prevent the awakening from being too sudden. Experienced
operators are, however, fully aware of these risks, and it may be anticipated
that with fuller knowledge of the subject they will practically disappear, as
it is easy to avoid them.
III. Apart from these definite and recognised dangers, there are vague
allegations of other disastrous consequences to be apprehended, such as the
weakening of the subject's will, or the degeneration of his character. But
in the opinion of those best qualified to speak with authority, these appre
hensions are almost, if not entirely, without foundation. Where hypnotism
is employed for curative purposes the treatment has proved often beneficial
and always harmless. Professor Beaunis, for example, has thus hypnotised
a patient daily for six months. And where it has been employed for
experiment and demonstration only, the effects on the subject, in careful
hands, have proved equally satisfactory. The young men and boys on whom
the Society for Psychical Research has conducted numerous experiments,
extending over a series of three (and in one case of six) years, have always
been and remain to this day in full health, physically and morally.
Appended is a short list of some of the more readily accessible books
dealing with the subject :—
Hypnotism, by Dr. Albert Moll (Translated from the German). London,
1890. Price, 3s. 6d.
140 [Supplement.
Circular No. IV.
Suggestive Therapeutics, by Prof. Bernheim (Translated from 2nd
French Edition, by C. A. Herter). New York, 1889. 18s.
Animal Magnetism, by Profs. Binet and Ferd (Translated from 2nd
French Edition). London, 1888. 6s.
Animal Magnetism (Article in Encyclopaedia Britannica, 9th Edition,
1884), by Prof. J. Q. McKendrick, F.R.8. 7s. 6d.
Psycho-Therapeutics ; or, Treatment by Hypnotism and Suggestion,
by Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey. 2nd Edition, 1890. 5s.
Hypnotism; its History and Present Development, by Bjtfrnstrtim
(Translated from the Swedish). New York, 1890. 2s.
July, 1890.
Supplement.! 141
Circular No. III.
To Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical Research.
CIRCULAR No. III.
(2nd Edition.)
19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
The Council of the Society for Psychical Research desire to express their
gratitude to such of the Members and Associates of the Society as have up
to the present date contributed evidence, attempted experiments, or other
wise aided in the several branches of work. At the same time they must
express a strong desire that such help should be offered by a greater number
of persons, The success of the Society's work must largely depend on
the amount of collaboration received—on the number of centres of observa
tion and experiment which can be established in this and other countries.
I. Phantasms of the Living, Phantasms of the Dead, Clairvoyance,
Premonitions.
The Council have reason to believe that some persons, possessing evidence
which would be of value to the Society, have lately thought it needless to
proffer such evidence, supposing that the reality, for instance, of apparitions
at death, was now sufficiently proved, and that no further cases were wanted.
The Council wish distinctly to state that their view is altogether different.
In the first place, they hold that the value to be attached to the evidence
already collected must largely depend on its continuous reinforcement by
fresh cases of like kind,—observed with care and recorded without delay.
In the second place, supposing that the general facts, say, of telepathy or of
veridical apparitions, were even universally admitted, it would still be a
matter of prime interest and importance to discover as much as possible of
the latos which govern these strange phenomena, and it is therefore
impossible to assign any limit to the number and variety of cases which
should be collected and registered with this end in view.
For the guidance of those who may be willing to assist the work of the
Society by collecting and preparing evidence on such spontaneous phenomena
142 [Supplement.
Circular No. III.
as phantasms of the living and dead, disturbances in haunted houses, clair
voyance, previsions and premonitions, the Council offer the following
suggestions :—
(1) A written statement, dated and signed with the full name (not
necessarily for publication) should be procured from the actual witness ; or
each of them, where more than one shared the experience. In the latter
case it is important that, where possible, the several accounts should be
written without previous consultation.
(2) Similar statements should be obtained from all persons in a position
to give corroborative evidence, either as (a) having been present at the time
of the experience, or (6) as having been told of it shortly afterwards, or (c)
as having been witness to any unusual effect produced on the percipient by
the experience. Where contemporary documentary evidence is in existence,
in the shape of letters, diaries, notebooks, &c., it is important that this
should at least be referred to ; and we should be grateful for an opportunity
of seeing the actual documents. It should be clearly understood that the
request for corroborative evidence implies no doubt on our part of the
integrity or the accuracy of our informants. But it is felt that where the
matters testified to are so strange and obscure, the evidence will win more
acceptance the more widely the responsibility for it is distributed. In such
cases it may be said that each additional witness multiplies by his own
testimony the value of the testimony given by his fellow-witnesses.
(3) It is further requested that all dates and other details may be given
as accurately as possible ; and that, where the experience relates to a death,
the full name of the deceased may be given, together with that of the
locality in which he died, in order that the occurrence of the death as stated
may be independently verified.
(4) Lastly, in all cases where the percipient has experienced some
unusual affection—such as a sensory hallucination, vivid dream, or marked
emotion—he should be requested to state whether he has had any similar
experience on any other occasion, whether coincidental or not.
Hallucination in this connection, it should be understood, signifies any
impression made on the senses which was not due to any external physical
cause.
II. Census of Hallucinations.
Independently of the investigation above referred to into phenomena
which apparently have relation to external events, an inquiry is being con
ducted by the Society into the phenomena of casual hallucinations, with the
view of ascertaining their relative frequency and the laws of their occurrence.
The inquiry is of the utmost importance, not merely from the point of view
of general psychology, but in particular in its bearing on our published
evidence as to the occurrence of coincidental hallucinations. Any person
willing to aid in this investigation is requested to communicate with Professor
Sidgwick, Cambridge, from whom the necessary forms can be obtained.
Intending informants should in all cases be assured that no name or
other particulars will be published without the express permission of the
persons concerned. On this subject see Circular V., enclosed herewith.
Supplement.] 143
Circular No. III.
III. Experiments in Thought-transference, Automatic Writing,
Crystal Vision, tlx.
The experiments in thought-transference given in the Journal for
December, 1887, &c, and the experiments in automatic writing and crystal
vision published of late, may serve to show with how little of preparation or
trouble (provided the work be done with complete good faith and care)
results of value may be attained. Experiments in hypnotism require more
caution ; but here Mr. G. A. Smith, an experienced hypnotist, with whose
name readers of the Proceedings have long been familiar, will be glad to give
advice or instruction. Persons willing to experiment in any of these
directions should communicate with one of the Hon. Secretaries of the
Society, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge, or Mr. Frank
Podmore, 12, Millbank-street, Westminster, S.W.1 One of these gentlemen
will also be happy to call on members or their friends who may desire to
communicate information by word of mouth on any of the subjects with
which the Society deals. The Council wish it to be distinctly understood
that they solicit information not only on those points (such as apparitions at
death) on which much evidence has already been forthcoming, but also on
other points included within the range of their investigations, especially the
so-called physical phenomena of Spiritualism. On this subject Professor
Barrett, 6, De Vesci-terrace, Kingstown, Dublin, the Hon. Secretary of the
Committee established by the late President, Professor Balfour Stewart,
will be glad to receive communications, or accounts of cases in or near
London may be sent to Mr. F. W. H. Myers for immediate investigation.
In conclusion, the Council would remind the members of the Society that
they have, from its first inception, foreseen and announced that an inquiry
so novel, complex, and important must of necessity be a prolonged one,
needing the combined efforts of many persons over a space of many years.
While attaching great value to the results already published, the Council
feel that those who sympathise with their object must be invited to fresh
exertions, if a progress at once rapid and durable is to be made in a research
whose very importance and interest increase the difficulty of conducting it
with adequate circumspection, and with due minuteness of care.
February, 1891.
1 Communications from persona on the American continent should be sent to
Dr. Richard Hodgson, Secretary of the American Branch of the Society for Psychical
Research, 5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
144 [Supplement-
Circular No. V.
To Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical Research.
CIRCULAR No. v.
19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
The Literary Committee of the Society for Psychical Research are grate
ful for all accounts that bear on their subjects, even when only privately
attested. But, while pledging themselves to respect the wishes of their
informants as to publicity, they cannot too strongly urge the importance,
for purposes of evidence, of publishing with each narrative the name, at any
rate, of the person who sends it, and if possible those also of the persons
concerned in it. In some cases, no doubt, special reasons exist which render
the mention of names undesirable ; but these cases, so far as the experience
of the Committee goes, are a very small minority. And since the mere fact
of a correspondent's having taken the trouble to send them an account may
be held to imply a desire to further their objects, they feel justified in
calling the attention of those who kindly manifest this desire to the best and
most obvious means for its fulfilment. This means can be no other than the
most complete attestation of all the evidence given. Where a person
refuses to a phenomenon, belonging to a certain class, the direct testimony
which he would give, if needful, to any other sort of personal experience, the
world is sure to take the view that he lacks that complete assurance of the
reality of the experience which alone can make his evidence worthy of
serious attention ; and the whole class of phenomena is thus discredited.
As for the chance of being ridiculed, or of being thought superstitious, such
an apprehension is not unnatural, and it commands the sympathy of the
Committee ; though they are persuaded that to many of their correspondents
it will not seem a valid ground for refusing to make aid, offered towards the
elucidation of an important subject, as effective as possible. But in any case
they hold that the fear itself has but little real basis ; and that the subject
has already advanced to a stage where courage is hardly among the qualities
necessary for its further development. They can, at all events, safely
declare that the necessary attestation has been given by so many of their
informants and witnesses, that any others who will follow this example may
count on finding themselves in good and numerous company.
February, 1891.
General Meetings. 145
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 45th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, April 17th, at 4 p.m.
Part of a paper by Mb. Hodgson on Phenomena of Trance in
the case of Mrs. Piper was read by Mr. Myers. This paper will, it is
hoped, appear in a future number of the Proceedings.
A paper by Dr. Alfred Backman, of Kalmar, Sweden, on Experi
ments in Clairvoyance was read by Mr. Podmore. This is printed
below.
The 46th General Meeting was held at the same place on Friday,
May 29th, at 8.30 p.m.
A paper by Mrs. H. Sidgwick on " Spirit Photographs," printed
below in the Supplement, was read by Mr. Podmore.
Mr. Myers spoke on " Problems of Personality," illustrating his
remarks by a case of automatic writing. What he said will probably
form part of future papers in the Proceedings.
The President, Professor Sidgwick, was in the chair on both
occasions.
146 F. W. H. Myers.
I.
ON ALLEGED MOVEMENTS OF OBJECTS, WITHOUT
CONTACT, OCCURRING NOT IN THE PRESENCE
OF A PAID MEDIUM.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Part I.
The late President of the Society for Psychical Research, Professor
Balfour Stewart, formed in 1887 a small Committee to consider a
Report on the phenomena commonly called Spiritualistic.
The Committee has collected and discussed a certain number of
narratives of alleged movements of objects, without contact, apart from
the presence of any paid medium.
They do not, however, think that the time has come for any collec
tive expression of opinion, and I have been asked to prepare an
ad interim account of evidence received (for which account I am alone
responsible),with the object rather of explaining the points at issue, and
of inviting fresh testimony, than of pronouncing on the true meaning
of the testimony already received.
A few words of preface seem needed to explain the position of the
Council of the Society for Psychical Research with reference to this
special inquiry. When the Society was founded in 1882, "Spiritualistic
Phenomena"1 formed an important item on its programme for investiga
tion.- At that time several of us had for many years tested the powers
of nearly all the paid mediums attainable, with results which were not
in my opinion wholly unsatisfactory ; and at any rate were not such as
to make it appear useless to continue the inquiry, if possible, under
better conditions.2 We hoped, then, that the formation of the Society
might lead persons obtaining similar phenomena in private circles to
allow us the opportunity of witnessing them. This hope has been to a
great extent disappointed. It appears, in fact, that, whatever may have
1 The terminology of this whole subject is in a very confused state. (See Proceed-
iitjs,Vol.VI., pp. 6G8, GGO.) It seems at any rate better to use the term " Spiritism "—
common to all nations except the English-American—for the belief in the agency of
spirits, leaving " Spiritualism " to its older meaning as the opposite of Materialism in
philosophy. This change has been advocated from the " Spiritualistic " camp ;—and
any difference of theoretic views between English and foreign believers can be much
better expressed in a more direct way than by this cumbrous use of two terms, of
which one is wanted for other purposes.
2 Eor an account of some of these investigations see Proccedingt, Vol. IV.,
pp. 45-110.
Alleged Movements, &c. 147
been the case in earlier years, very few of such private circles now exist-
while those that do exist seldom report their results even in the Spirit
istic Press. And thus, since the foundation of our Society in 1882,
iittle has been added to the pre-existing body of evidence for Spiritism,
except some fresh accounts of seances with paid mediums, and especially
with Mr. Eglinton. Mr. Eglinton's claims to the production of physical
phenomena were discussed in our Proceedings and Journal in 1886-7,
and he has since that date retired into private life. Some imitations of
his performances were given by the late Mr. Davey, an amateur conjurer,
"with very remarkable results. Not only were almost all the witnesses
{who were told to form their own opinion on the matter) convinced
that some occult agency was at work (and the events, as they described
them, certainly seemed to need that hypothesis); but even after Mr.
Davey had avowed himself a conjurer, and had explained to an expert
in conjuring (now a member of this Committee) his modus operandi
throughout, many Spiritists continued to believe that " spirits " after
all had aided Mr. Davey in achieving his marvels. Considering, then,
the evidence thus and otherwise obtained of the incapacity of ordinary
educated persons to determine the limits of a conjurer's power, and,
on the other hand, the mass of evidence tending to show fraud on the
part of professional mediums, it does not seem worth while, as a rule,
to examine the testimony to physical marvels occurring in the presence
of professional mediums.
The case is different with phenomena where no professional medium
intervenes. Here, even when the marvellous phenomena are such as might
easily have been produced by wilful deception, it' may be in the highest
degree improbable that they were so produced, owing to the absence of
motive and the probity and intelligence of the persons concerned. Self-
deception, no doubt, is not similarly improbable, and is a vera causa
that must always be carefully kept in view. But its probability varies
"very much according to the nature of the marvels recorded. For this
Teason, among others, it will be well to begin by distinguishing,
broadly and briefly, the main kinds of phenomena alleged by Spiritists
to occur, always confining our attention to those in which no paid
medium was concerned.
1. Many of the phenomena referred to spirit agency occur along with
"what we already recognise as phenomena of automatism, of which auto
matic writing forms a leading type; and automatic are undoubtedly liable
to be taken for Spiritistic phenomena by witnesses of perfect good faith.
But phenomena of this kind may in two main ways extend themselves
beyond the limits which any recognised human automatism can cover.
Intellectually they may transcend those limits, if the facts conveyed in
the automatic messages transcend any information which the operators
can ever have possessed. The messages in that case will be such as
L 2
148 F. W. H. Myers.
unconscious mental action cannot be pressed to explain. But the
extremely interesting line of inquiry thus suggested lies outside of our
present purpose, and can be pursued without either accepting or
denying the Spiritistic hypotheses on other points. Again, pheno
mena cognate to these automatic actions may physically transcend the
limits of recognised human automatism, if the movements occurring in
connection with them are such as unconscious muscular action cannot
be pressed to explain.
2. Such motor effects as these, however, stand only at the beginning
of the physical phenomena of Spiritism. We find testimony to the
actual movements of objects, not in contact with any living person ;
movements not hallucinatory, but leaving permanent trace upon the
ponderable world. These telekinetic movements (as M. Aksakof calls
them) may have appeared to have no visible cause, or they may have
seemed to be caused by quasi-human organisms or parts of organisms.
With these latter I shall not here deal. The most important of
them, putting paid seances aside, are those alleged to have occurred in
the presence of Mr. D. D. Home, on which Professor Barrett and I
have touched in the Society for Psychical Research Journal for July,
1889.
In this paper, however, we must confine ourselves to the more
ordinary displacements alleged to occur without recognisable terrene
cause. And, in fact, in our already collected testimony on other
subjects some evidence of this kind has been recorded which should,
it is plain, be considered in this connection.
3. Another large class of phenomena ascribed to spirits are plainly
akin to certain hypnotic phenomena, and especially to so-called clair
voyance or lucidity ; and will be best considered in that connection.
Thus far it would seem as though each branch of the phenomena,
might be taken, so to say, on its merits, without our involving ourselves
in any speculative system at all. There must, it is clear, be further
allegations advanced before anything like a cult or a religion can be
evolved from these premises. And these additional allegations must
form the differentia of Spiritism. On examination they are found
to be two, one relating to practical method, and the other to interpre
tation.
4. It is alleged that these phenomena are not solely sporadic and,
spontaneous, but can be evoked in the presence of certain persons
known as mediums.
5. And it is alleged that spirits of persons long dead (not necessarily
haunting ghosts), and perhaps also unembodied spirits of other kinds,
can and do communicate with men ; so that the explanation which
the spirits give of the phenomena of communication has an authority
independent of our own intelligence.
Alleged Movements, &c. 149
Now it will be seen at once that it is in connection with these two
latter allegations that the main diseases of evidence, so to say, have
arisen.- The Spiritistic method (which may quite conceivably in
itself be sound and necessary) has encouraged the craft of impostors,
trading on the expectation that certain persons would be found here
and there to possess occult powers which made their aid in such
inquiries invaluable. And the Spiritistic theory (which may quite
conceivably in itself be true and important) has encouraged the
credulity and superstition of those who should have been observers, but
have become devotees. It has encouraged an appeal to authority in
the very inception of an inquiry in which rational scepticism, calm dis
engagement of mind, are needed in an even exceptional degree.
It would seem desirable, then, if it be possible, to make in some
sense a new departure in this inquiry by investigating the phenomena
as they stand, without taking into account the still more contentious
matter connected with the theories by which they are commonly bound
together. Thus, in our present inquiry as to physical movements, we
can classify the alleged cases, as far as possible, according to the special
group of otherwise attested phenomena, occurring apart from regular
mediumship,—such as automatism, telepathy, post-mortem apparitions,
,and the like,—with which each alleged case of physical movements bears
some apparent connection. If we do not find any trustworthy cases of
physical movements in any way correlated with these aforesaid groups,
we shall not, indeed, have disproved the physical phenomena peculiar
to Spiritistic seances altogether ; but we shall have deprived them of
collateral support, and left them in an entirely isolated and anomalous
position. If, on the other hand, we find that evidence as to physical
movements is good and widely dispersed in connection with various
other forms of psychical events, then, though we shall not have proved
the physical phenomena peculiar to the seance-room, we shall have
prepared the way for their acceptance if they shall turn out to be
independently well-attested.
If there be any truth in Spiritism, it must surely be in some
sense continuous with other truth. The evoked phenomena must be a
,development or a systematisation of the spontaneous phenomena,
rather than a wholly new manifestation. And we are more likely to
understand the evoked phenomena, if genuine, by taking them, so to
say, from this evolutionary point of view, than by assuming that
" the Hydesville rappings " inaugurated a new era, and that " Modern
Spiritualism " has supplied already a body of revelation which we are
bound to accept as our guide in the new inquiry.
And indeed in no other investigation, (it must once more be
repeated), has pre-conceived theory exercised a more damaging effect
on experiment. The theory here has been attractive and interesting
150 F. W. H.'Myers.
in a unique degree ; it has imparted a strong stimulus to hope and
emotion. On the other hand, the phenomena on which the theory-
rested have been peculiarly hard to come at ; they have been rare,
elusive, and enigmatic. There has consequently been a tendency to
take some of the phenomena for granted without further trouble, and
to surround others with all kinds of glosses which may keep them in
harmony with the theory whose truth is so earnestly desired. And
since most of the alleged phenomena are easily imitable by fraud, an
unusual field has been offered for imposture.
In this Report I shall at any rate avoid that special kind of
suspicion which the presence of pecuniary motive for imposture inspires.
Hence I shall not be bound constantly to assume as probable fraudu
lent intention combined with practised skill. Of course there may be
many motives, other than pecuniary, which may prompt to trickery.
There may be a morbid or malicious desire to deceive ; there may be
abnormal states in which fraud is unconsciously practised ; or there
may be (especially with children) a mere wish to attract notice, or to
be amused, without any serious realisation of the guilt of deceit. And
quite apart from conscious or unconscious fraud, mere inaccuracy of
observation and carelessness of record have often transformed very
ordinary incidents into apparent marvels. It is with full recollection
of these various sources of error that I, nevertheless, offer the following
narratives as well worthy of my readers' attention. With the excep
tion of phenomena obtained in the presence of Mr. D. D. Home (which
in several respects form a group by themselves), our collection includes
the bulk of such fairly well attested cases of physical movements
occurring not in the presence of paid mediums as we have thus far
been able to discover. Moreover, it includes more than one narrative
of poor evidential quality,, admitted with the direct object of indicating
points to be observed, and of leading to further experiment.
We will divide our cases, as already suggested, into groups corre
sponding as far as may be with the various classes of psychical incident
with which we are already familiar.
A. First I will take physical movements connected with automa
tism ; by which I mean physical movements not definitely pointing to
the operation of other intelligences than those of the persons present.
This will be our most extensive class, as we shall include in it some
cases where a series of phenomena, though they may claim connection
with some departed personality, do yet cling about or accompany some
given living person, or " medium." In such a case I prefer the word
" automatist,"—as not prejudging the question whether spirits other
than the medium's own are at work, but implying merely that the move
ments, &c, in some way depend on his presence, but are not consciously
caused by him.
Alleged Movements, &c. 151
B. Next will come physical movements connected with telepathy
between living persons, or near the moment of death.
C. Next will come physical movements associated with phantasms of
the dead,—or phantasms of that obscure type with which cases of
" haunting " have made us familiar.
D. It is not, of course, possible to divide our cases with accuracy
among these classes ; and especially there are certain cases of sporadic
and apparently motiveless movements which, if not due to some
ordinary but overlooked cause, nevertheless afford ws no definite
indication of the nature of their supernormal source. Some of these
it may be well to cite at the end of our list.
A. Let us begin with the simplest of all cases. Two persons place
their hands on a table, and it moves rapidly and fitfully about. They
feel convinced that they are not pushing it. Are we to account this as
a " physical phenomenon," a movement unexplained by ordinary laws 1
The answer is, No ; for evidential purposes we must not so reckon
it. We need not, indeed, assert that, could Faraday's test be applied
(which it cannot be, save in the very simplest cases), we should neces
sarily find that the force at work all came through the sitters' muscles
in the ordinary way. If tables ever move loithout contact, then the
force, whatever it may be, which makes them so move is probably
operative also in some cases where contact exists. Just similarly, if
thought-transference exists, thought-transference is probably operative
in certain cases of the " willing game," where there is contact between
the operator and the person willed. But, nevertheless, when engaged
in proving the reality of thought-transference, we have felt it
necessary to exclude from our evidence any case where contact could
have afforded opportunity for some slight push, even were it uncon
sciously given and unconsciously received. Muscle-reading—and for
similar reasons all kinds of gesture-reading—had to be definitely set
aside before thought-reading had any chance of rigorous demonstration.
And so with the case of these table-movements. Unless in cases of well-
observed elevation of a heavy body in air, when touched only from
above, it is not safe to cite instances where there is any contact as
proving any force beyond the force which is operative when some con
tact is known to exist. When tables move rapidly, it is difficult to
know exactly where the hands touching them are, or how hard they are
pushing. Undoubted good faith in the operators is not enough to
reassure us ; for we by no means know the limits of unconscious
muscular action.
And now another difficulty meets us. Among the phenomena most
frequently alleged, raps hold a prominent place. These percussive
noises, occurring sometimes apparently in the woodwork of the table,
sometimes in other parts of the room, can rarely be explained by
152 F. W. H. Myers.
any unconscious movements of the persons present. They may, of
course, be due to fraud, and they may sometimes be produced by
unconscious movements of the throat or of some joint or tendon.
But assuming for argument's sake that the raps are genuine
" psychical phenomena " of some kind—and for this there is a great
deal of evidence—we find the problem of their true nature by no means
an easy one. Are we to suppose that actual sound-waves are produced
in the air 1 If so, of course the smallest " rap '' is an interference with
the ponderable world every whit as definite as the "levitation" of a
medium on to the table. Or are they mere hallucinations—with
some origin, perhaps, outside the minds of the sitters, but operating
upon these minds in some direct fashion, and not upon the air of
the room 1
This problem is not altogether new. In Phantasms of the Living
we had to consider many cases where noises were heard by several
persons at once. And in some of these cases—and in others since
communicated,—we have found that the sound remained unheard
by some person who must have heard it, had it been propagated by
vibrations of the air in the normal way. Hallucinatory sounds seem to
run parallel in this respect to hallucinatory sights. They may be
perceived by one out of many persons present, or by some, or by all.1
Nor need this irregularity seem more surprising in the case of sounds
than in the case of sights. In either case it is inexplicable by
ordinary laws ; in either case the mode of genesis of the supernormal
impression is unknown. (See Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II.,
p. 105, note.)
But if sounds so loud and marked as were some of those in the cases
above alluded to in Phantasms of the Living must be treated as in
some sense hallucinatory, and not as real physical movements of the air,
then we are bound to extend the same caution to our accounts of ra]>s.
In some respects, it is true, raps, if genuine at all, have a higher
claim to be considered as physical movements than some other phantas
mal sounds possess.
Thus (1) they are often more continuous and capable of being more
steadily observed ; (2) they are often more definite in quality, corre
sponding to the resonance of various objects in or upon which they seem
to occur ; (3) they sometimes occur (as alleged) in connection with
unmistakable physical movements,—either vibrations accompanying
the sounds, or other movements intercurrent with or announced by the
sounds ; (4) and, finally, I do not know of a recorded instance where
raps were heard, so to say, electively,—that is, by some persons only out
of those who were physically in a position to hear them.
1 See Society for Psychical Research Journal for April, 1890.
Alleged Movements, &c. 153
We must bear these points in mind ; but nevertheless we seem
bound in no case to treat mere sounds of any kind, any more than
mere sights, as proofs of physical movement. Rigorously speaking, we
have no proof of physical movement, unless there is some displacement
or modification of the material world which is capable of registration
by automatic agency—as by the phonograph or the sensitised photo
graphic plate. The phonograph, as now improved, might successfully
be applied to the registration of raps ; and the experiment is one that
we hope will eventually be made. Somewhat similarly, it is to the
sensitised plate that an appeal as to the true nature of apparitions
ought to lie. But waiving what lies at present beyond our reach, we
shall of course consider that a physical movement has taken place if
the position of objects in the room, as discerned by our ordinary senses,
remains permanently changed after the movement. And there may,
moreover, be cases where the movement is so distinct, so persistent, and
witnessed similarly by so many persons, that the evidence for its
reality is not seriously impaired by the ultimate reversion of the object
to its former place. Thus, the repeated rising and falling of a heavy
table, and its repeated movements over the floor from side to side, as
described in the Dialectical Society's Report, pp. 10, 11, 15, will
hardly be ascribed to collective hallucination. The movement probably
did occur, and if it was not genuinely supernormal, we must, it would
seem, ascribe it to conscious or unconscious fraud.
Group A. Case I.
Dialectical Society's Report on Spiritualism (London : Burns, 1873),
pp. 10, 11, 15, 373-391. This may serve as the first case of my first
group,—the group which by some stretching of terms we have described
as connected with automatism. The details just given will somewhat
explain this classification. Had the table merely moved while the
hands of the persons present were touching it, we should undoubtedly
have ascribed such movement to their unconscious muscular action,
even though the movements were so considerable that this explanation
was somewhat strained. And in these cases, in fact, the table began by
moving with hands in contact with it, and only gradually gained the
power of moving untouched by anyone. The simplest supposition,
therefore, seems to be that if some force unconsciously exercised by the
sitters caused the earlier movements in the series, some force uncon
sciously exercised by the sitters caused the later movements also. This
is at any rate simpler than to assume that there was any direct force
exercised by invisible beings, independently of the sitters. Ignorant as
we are, however, of the nature of any such supposed force, we cannot
at present assume to classify the cases of its display in more than a
superficial manner.
154 F. W. H. Myers.
Group A. Case II.
Another case already printed is that of " M.A. (Oxon.)." The
phenomena obtained by this gentleman are described in a very scat
tered way in various publications of which several are out of print.
(Human Nature, March to August, 1874; and Spirit Identity.) It
is greatly to be wished that the records of this remarkable case should
be gathered together and placed before the world in an authentic and
connected form. The phenomena described included raps, music, lights,
scents, movements of objects without contact, &c. The good faith of
the writer (a clergyman well known to me for seventeen years) has, so
far as I know, never been impugned, and I consider it as quite beyond
question.
Group A. Case III.
Professor Barrett's cases. (See Proceedings, Vol. IV., pp. 29, 38.)
Group A. Case IV.
Count de Gasparin's experiments. Les Tables Tournantes. Par le
Comte Agenor de Gasparin. Vol. I., pp. 33, 35, &c. New edition in
one volume, Calmann L^vy, Paris, 1888. Also a pamphlet, Les Tables
Tournantes, by Professor Thury, now out of print and rare. Move
ments of a table obtained without contact, by seemingly careful
observers.
We shall have to return to some of these cases, which are not
easily accessible. But for the present I pass on to some unpublished
narratives. I begin with an isolated movement, occurring under
circumstances which seem to give it a kind of coincidental or purposive
character.
Group A. Case V. (S. 338.)
From the Rev. Edward T. Vaughan, Langleybury Vicarage, King's Langley.
August 25th, 1884.
Some three or four years back, I had occasion to visit a parishioner who
was seriously ill, one afternoon in the winter time as it was growing dark. I
had seen him several times before since his illness commenced, and had
always found him in the same bedroom. On this occasion I had been praying
with him, and his wife was kneeling at the opposite side of the bed to myself.
As I was saying the last words of the prayer, we (the woman and myself)
distinctly saw a small table, which stood about a yard from the foot of the
bed, rise two or three inches from the ground and come down with a violent
thump upon the floor, so loudly that the man, who was lying with his eyes
closed, started up and asked, with some terror, what had occasioned it. On
examining the table, I found that a glass with medicine in it, which stood
upon the table with several other articles, had been so shaken that some of
the contents were spilt. My first idea was that something had been thrown
down in the room below, where my wife, a sister of the woman's, and an
Alleged Movements, &c. 155
aged uncle were sitting. On going downstairs and inquiring, I found that
this was not so ; that they had been all sitting perfectly quiet in the room,
and thought we had thrown down something in the bedroom. There was no
one else in the house. The man died about a week after this took place.
I add my name as you wish to show this to others.
E. T. Vaughan,
Vicar of Langleybury.
To this case the following letters belong :—
Langleybury Vicarage, King's Langley.
June 27th, 1888.
I enclose according to your wish a statement from Mrs. Vaughan of what
she remembers of the curious incident. I am sorry to say the widow, though
she still lives in this village, is not capable of writing down a statement of
what she saw and heard that evening, though she can give a very clear
account of the circumstances to anyone who examines her orally. The man's
name was John Wilson, a bricklayer in the employ of the Earl of Clarendon.
He died on December 7th, 1881, about a week after the strange occurrence.
I have never since experienced any similar phenomenon.
Edward T. Vaughan.
Mrs. Vaughan writes under the same date as follows :—
In confirmation of the story of Wilson's deathbed, I can say I was sitting
in the room below the sick man's with two other people (his sister-in-law and
uncle), in perfect silence, as every word read in the room above could be
distinctly heard by us. Just as the last words of the prayer were being said,
we were startled by a loud and sudden noise, as if some heavy piece of furni
ture had fallen in the room above. My first impression was that the man
was taken worse, and that his wife, moving hastily to him, had knocked over
a table. None of us spoke, though we started and looked at each other, and
expected to hear some one called ; but almost the next minute I heard Mr.
Vaughan address the man on leaving, and come downstairs with the wife. I
went to meet them with her sister, and though nothing more was said by any
of us than "good-bye," I saw by all the faces that something unusual had
happened. As soon as we were out of the house I said to Mr. Vaughan,
"What was that noise just as you were reading the prayers ? " and he told me
the story you have heard, and it formed the principal topic of our long walk
home, wondering what it was, and trying to explain it, without in the least
coming to any conclusion but greater wonder.
E. L. Vaughan.
This is a brief and simple incident ; but it is particularly hard to
explain by ordinary causes—such as an earthquake or a mistaken
memory.
Group A. Case VI. (S. 4.)
A somewhat similar case was sent to Mr. Gurney by Miss H.
Power, of 19, Spring-street, Paddington, in May, 1887. Mr. Gurney had
an interview with Miss Power, and considered her a good witness.
156 F. W. H. Myers.
Under date May 6th, 1887, Miss Power writes as follows :—,
In 1883 I occupied part of a house, 43, Fitzroy-street, W. I had been
.given abook written by " M.A. (Oxon.)" [which greatly jarred on the religious
faith of the reader]. At the moment when I felt most angry, an ordinary ladies'
handbag, containing sundry articles, which I had laid down in the centre of
a, large armchair, was flung with great force under the table, making a
considerable noise as it fell. I was lying on the sofa at some distance. At
the same time loud raps came in different places on the wall. An old man
to whom I had given the use of the kitchen, and who used to attend on me,
came up to the first floor, saying I had been knocking on the floor as if for
help. I felt annoyed at the disturbance, but did not say anything to the old
man or his wife, as they were Irish, and would very likely have been alarmed.
Shortly after, a drawing-board which stood in an empty space between two
sides of a writing-table, slid out on its thin edge into the room and then fell
over, about a yard from the writing-table.
Miss Power mentions some other small incidents which might possibly
have been due to a servant ; but she had no further annoyance. She
disliked the manifestations, and would exert her will to prevent their
recurrence. She has had no hallucinations of sight or hearing, but
she has on two occasions been conscious of contact with apparently
solid bodies, when awrare that none such were near. She writes easily
with planchette, and has a tendency to the cognate form of automatism,
which consists in hearing certain thoughts formulated as " internal
voices." Miss Power referred to two clergymen to whom she had
mentioned the matter in 1883 ; but the Rev. J. J. Coxhead, St. John's
Vicarage, Fitzroy-square, has oidy " some hazy remembrance of her
mentioning something of the kind."
The case, therefore, rests practically on one person's memory. It is
given here on account of the interest of the fact that the movement of
an untouched object occurred, in one instance at least, at a moment of
strong excitement on the part of the witness. In the next case to be
cited, which is evidentially much stronger, there seems to have been
absolutely no emotion of any kind involved. The movement was isolated
and meaningless, and has not been repeated.
Group A. Case VII. Graham Case. (S. 5.)
Colonel Taylor writes as follows :—
R. M. College, Farnboro'.
July lWi, 1886.
I send you with this an account of table movements which I suppose will
be of use. The young man who relates the story was about 18 years old
when the things he speaks of took place about two or three years ago ; he is
now in a W. I. regiment.
During the time that he was here as a cadet, he told me the story, which
he related quite in the same way as he has now done on paper.
'' The following is a description of how, on two occasions, a table was
Alleged Movements, &c. 157
seen to move without any visible agency and which was ascribed to some
curious power called into existence by the well-known amusement of ' table-
turning. '
'' At the time, my mother, sister, and younger brother were living in an
old-fashioned house in a country village, and we occasionally passed the
dusk of the winter afternoons in what we termed ' turning the table.'
" We tried it as a matter of curiosity and amusement at first, but after
wards, when we became almost uniformly successful, as something to be
investigated as far as possible.
"The table in question was a round spider-legged ladies' work-table,
covered with red cloth, and about two feet in diameter. We sat round it
with our fingers touching and resting lightly on the top and edge of the table.
Sometimes there were three, sometimes four, and afterwards now and then
only two. Our custom was to ask the table to speak to us. This it did by
momentarily raising one leg of its three off the floor half an inch or so, twice
for yes and once for no. It would spell words and sentences to us by raising
the leg a certain number of times consecutively, corresponding to the number
of the required letter in the alphabet, once for a—twice for b—three times
for c—and so on, a short pause intervening between each letter.
"Sometimes it would stubbornly refuse to move, and on these occasions no
amount of patience could prevail upon it to talk with us. At other times it
would be outrageous in its behaviour—walking round the room, and hop
ping on one leg, getting on chairs and performing many other curious evolu
tions. We all considered these vagaries of the table very extraordinary, but
firmly believed in the good faith of each other and the table, and agreed to
consider the table possessed on these talkatively and athletically inclined
occasions with a certain spirit. We often talked over these movements of
our table and expressed a belief that it might move without any contact with
our joined hands if we could only obtain sufficient influence over it. Accord
ingly we tried sitting round the table without joining hands or placing them
at all in contact with it, and simply wishing earnestly for it to move—but it
never did so on these occasions.
"At last one evening after we had concluded a talk with our spirit, lights
were brought and we sat down to read. There were three of us only in the
room, my mother, young brother, and myself. Our relative positions were
as shown below :—
1. Our small table.
2. My brother.
3. My mother.
4. Myself.
5. Larger table.
My brother was sitting near the fire with his eyes closed. My mother and
myself were reading at the large table. All at once I heard a scraping sound
upon the carpet as if something was being dragged over it. My mother and I
looked up and we immediately asked each other if it could possibly be our
table moving of its own accord. We both then recommenced reading.
Presently the sound was heard again. I looked quickly at the small table, and
'O -> 2
O
5
158 F. W. H. Myers.
saw it distinctly move for about six inches in the direction shown by the
arrow. My brother also looked up and started from his chair somewhat
alarmed. My mother also saw it, and I must confess we all felt to a certain
degree startled by what we had seen, and not wishing to see any more just
then, we removed it from the room.
. "The next occasion on which it moved of its own accord was a week or so,
I believe, after, when I was the only witness. I was left alone in the room,
the others had just left, and were only a few yards or so from the door. We
had been amusing ourselves by making the table walk round the room, but it
had become so violent that we gave it up, and it was left standing a few
feet from the fire, which was brightly burning, and the only light in the
room.
"It occurred to me to try if I could make the table move by subjecting it
to a certain amount of indignity, as it had always proved particularly violent
when treated in any way unceremoniously.
"I then picked up a small terrier which was lying on the rug and held it
towards the table as if to place the animal on the top. To my intense astonish
ment the table jumped towards me, rising off the ground, and so alarmed the
dog that he squeaked and ran away. The table moved laterally quite six
inches and rose in the air about the same distance. I left it lying on the
floor and went to tell the others. Soon after this I left home for school and
I don't think anything further of the kind described took place.
" H. W. Gore Graham.
"Mary E. Graham."
Mrs. Graham forwards the above account to Colonel Taylor, " with
her assurance of the accuracy of the statements contained."
Mr. Graham's brother writes :—
The Grove, Montepellier.
Awjnst Uth, 1886.
Mrs. Graham has just handed me your letter, and in reply thereto I have
much pleasure in corroborating my brother's statements with regard to the
table movements. I think he refers more particularly to the years 1879 and
1880, when I was about 15 years old.
G. L. Gore Graham.
The next case is from Mr. George Allman Armstrong, of 8, Leeson-
place, Dublin, and Ardnacarrig, Bandon. His account is dated June
13th, 1887. He vouches for the perfect good faith of the small group
who tried these experiments together, but they are now scattered,—
some of them dead,—and he has not been able to get their corroborative
testimony. In this case also the ordinary table-tilting seems to have
developed into independent movements, with which, as will be seen,
raps were closely associated. The experiments were made during the
years 1878-80.
Group A. Case VIII. Armstrong Case. (S. 6.)
To avoid prolixity, I shall classify the "higher grade" manifestations
under their several heads as observed by me, and describe them as they
occurred.
Alleged Movements, &c. 159
(a) Knocks on the table.
Preceded by an uneasy motion in the table, which moved and swayed
rapidly from side to side; on my expressing a wish for "knocks" oh it,
those motions would suddenly cease, and in the space of one minute or so, and
sometimes at once, a faint knock would be heard in the woodwork of the
top, the knocks gradually increasing in number, rapidity, and force, till they
resembled the driving in of small tacks on every portion of its surface. All
this time our finger-tips alone rested on the table—neither feet nor dress in
contact. I could at will cause these sounds to cease or reappear, one, two,
three, or any number I demanded, and stranger still, I could induce a
succession of knocks of various degrees of intensity and so delivered as to
"knock out" with wonderful accuracy any tune I asked for. I can now
recall amongst many such the airs of "Not for Joe," and " The Blue-bells
of Scotland," as especially well marked.1
(6) Rising or Levitation.
This manifestation is, perhaps, the most unaccountable of any which I have
met with in my experience. Its production required a great amount of
concentrated will power,and when successful the results were startling, and the
apparent physical force developed really wonderful. The "rising" was
generally preceded by a continuous fusillade of "knocks" in the substance
of the table, till finally they resembled the sound of the sparks given off by
the prime conductor of a large Holtz electrical machine when charging a
battery of Leyden jars ; when the knocks had, as it were, reached a climax,
the table slowly swayed from side to side like a pendulum, stopped com
pletely, and then, as if imbued with life, and quite suddenly, rose completely
off the floor to a height of a foot or 14 inches at least, and nearly always came
down with immense force, which would have proved uncomfortable for any
human foot which might happen to have been in its vicinity, and on several
occasions proved destructive to itself, as the broken limbs of the table we
used at Kinsale could testify. This table, I may add, was a round, rather
heavy, walnut one, with a central column, standing on three claw legs, and
it would have been impossible for us unaided to have developed the force (by
muscular energy) required to produce this manifestation. In this instance
the law of gravitation was quite overcome, the table being repelled from
the floor in opposition to its power, and afterwards attracted by the com
bined force of gravity and the unknown force developed. On several
occasions I have succeeded in raising the table without contact, the latter
rising to our fingers held over it at a height of several inches, like the keeper
to a strong electro-magnet ; in these instances the table swayed slowly
in mid-air for many seconds before coming down with a crash. The
production of this mysterious manifestation appeared to require a great
expenditure of the latent energy which produced the phenomenon, and the
table- always seemed supercharged with the "force-producing fluid," if I
may be permitted to use the term ; knocks were heard on every portion of
the table's surface, the chairs we sat on, and even on various articles of
furniture at a considerable distance from us. Frequently at this point of its
1 Note that the finger-tips were on the table while these tunes were knocked out
and that it is hard to distinguish raps within a table from raps upon it.—F. W. H. M.
160 F. W. H. Myers.
progress the table would rise on oiie leg, in which position I willed it to
remain, the united efforts of the rest to press it down to its normal
position being utterly fruitless, and often resulting in a fracture. An
expressed wish of mine to that effect immediately released it and forced it to
return to its tilted position, when this extraordinary resisting power was
again fully developed. I will just here remark that I have on several
occasions, in Dublin, induced a table to "levitate," though previously
heavily loaded with large books ; the positive danger and injury resulting
from its subsequent "attraction" prevented my attempting it oftener.
(c) Scratching* awl muffled sounds.
These are varieties of the knocking phenomena and resembled the sounds
produced by drawing a finger nail slowly across the under surface of the
table, and again resembling that of a duster being hastily "brushed over"
the same place. These curious phenomena I have frequently induced, and
changed same to knocks and Dice versa at will. Miss McDaniel has also been
most successful in producing the same.
All the manifestations, excepting that referred to as having been witnessed
in Dublin, have been the result of our investigations in Kinsale.
Geo. Allman Armstrong.
Ardnacarrig, Bandon.
The next case is a specimen of the bell-ringing class ;—in which the
usual hypotheses of fraud, rats, hitched wires, &c, seem hard to apply.
The care and fulness with which it has been recorded will enable the
reader to judge for himself more easily than in most narratives of this
type. Our informant is a gentleman occupying a responsible position ;
his name may be given to inquirers.
Group A. Case IX. (S. 7.)
November 1st, 1887.
Dear Sir,—Some occurrences that have taken place in this house
lately will, I think, be of interest to the Psychical Society ; I will give a some
what detailed account of them, and shall of course be very glad to give you
any information you wish in case you find it of sufficient interest to pursue
further.
Perhaps I had better state briefly what occurred, first of all. (I should
say that I am writing in the main from notes taken on the days in question,
not simply from memory.)
On Friday, September 23rd, I took my four pupils to a circus, my
lady housekeeper going too, leaving my two servants at home. We left
at about 2 p.m., or earlier. All but myself returned at about 5.30, and
found the two servants on the door-step, telling the boys not to go in by the
area door (the kitchens being below ground), and explaining that all the
bells were ringing violently, no one touching them, and they had been
doing so almost ever since we left, from about half-past two. When I
came back I found the same state of things ; the servants almost in hysterics,
and the bells ringing. The bells hang all in one row just inside the area
door and opposite the kitchen door,—nine of them. There is one bell at the
top of the house on the landing,—a call bell. Of the nine bells below, eight
Alleged Movements, &c. 161
of them rang that evening ; the ninth (the end bell ringing from the back of
the house) I did not see ring at all, but the cook said it did ring several
times ; I cannot, however, vouch for that. The others all rang at different
times, several together ; my impression is that I saw and heard at least four
together ; I certainly several times saw three, and from what the servants
told me and my housekeeper they sometimes almost all rang at once. The
ringing was sudden and very violent, louder than we ever rang a bell in the
ordinary way ; indeed we could not, I believe (though we can ring them
louder), ring them with such a sudden and violent ring by pulling the handles.
I thought the probability was that a cat had got somewhere where all the
wires were together, had got entangled, and was trying to get out, and so
pulled the bells. I went in the roof and found only two wires, one that of the
end bell, which rang very little if at all that evening (as I have mentioned
before); the other the call bell at the top of the house, which, I believe, did
not ring at all that day. However, as I supposed the wires might run
together elsewhere, I put it down to some such cause, and so felt no trouble
in leaving the house, as I had an evening engagement, my housekeeper and
I both going out to supper. I left first, and when she came to the friend's
house she said the last thing she had heard was all the bells pealing together.
(I imagine she did not literally mean she was certain that all the nine rang,
but that was the impression it gave her.) I left home, I think, at about
seven o'clock. At about 9.30, when we were at supper, the cook came over
(it was about three-quarters of a mile from home) to say we must come back
as there were such dreadful knockings going on in the house. We went off
at once of course, our friends returning with us, being much interested.
What had occurred in the meantime was this : soon after my housekeeper
left, viz., at about 7.30, the knocking or hammering began. It sounded like
a mallet on a wooden floor, speaking loosely. The laundryman came in
soon after it began, and was, I believe, quite scared ; he offered to stay in
the house while the cook went for her brother, who lives near ; and she
fetched him. The baker's man also came, and was convinced that there was
a man in the house hammering, and after searching the house and finding
nothing he went straight to the police-station and told them to send up. As.
soon as she had fetched her brother the cook went off for us, and her brother,
who is a middle-aged, respectable, and I should say intelligent man, a teacher
in the Board school, was so scared by the knocking that he would not stay in
the house, but went on the door-step with the housemaid and stood there
till the policemen came, the noise going on all the time. (I believe the bell-
ringing was not so frequent while the knocking went on, but cannot say for
certain.)
When I came back I had the felicity of finding three policemen in the
house, and the noise had ceased. I believe they had heard and seen nothing,
except seeing all the "indicators" of the bells wagging merrily. So they soon
cleared out. They offered to search the house if I liked, but I was so per
fectly acquainted with it that I was certain no one could be in hiding, i.e.,
in any place where he could produce all the sounds, not to mention the
unlikelihood of anyone's wishing to do so if he were in hiding. Nothing
occurred till my friends also left, and then at about 10 p.m. one of the bells
rang slightly, when no one pulled it. I then went upstairs to the top of the.
162 F. W. H. Myers.
house, and when up there the servants and my housekeeper heard the noise
once, very loudly, as it evidently frightened the latter, who had not heard it
before. I did not hear anything in particular, but that was simply because
just at the time it occurred I was talking and shutting the door (I need not
say that the shutting the door had nothing to do with it), and the noise close
by doubtless rendered the other less noticeable. However, I went down
stairs and was just going from the hall down the stairs into the kitchen (the
two servants and the housekeeper standing all together in the hall), when I
heard it. Perhaps I can best convey the impression it gave to me by saying
that having been somewhat sceptical before and thinking it had been
exaggerated, &c, as soon as I had heard it that once I had not the slightest
question as to whether it were imaginary, or a cat, or any noise outside or
connected with the bell-wires, &c. ; it was simply as clear and loud a noise
as if someone had hammered three times in succession quickly on the boards
of one of the rooms, with a mallet, just about as hard as possible. It is of
course difficult to convey an idea of a sound like that, but as near as I can
judge a (perhaps slightly muffled) mallet hammered on a floor gives the best
impression, I told my servant to rap the floor to-night with the knob of a
heavy stick as hard as she could, while I was downstairs ; the sound was
distinctly sharper and so far clearer than the original sound, but I may s;iy
literally bore no comparison to it in point of intensity ; roughly speaking, it
was not much more than half as loud ; while two friends that were with me
to-night confessed that that noise would be sufficiently startling if heard
suddenly.
I heard it again a few minutes later, this time twice repeated in succes
sion, quickly. It gave me the impression of being in the dining-room floor,
but it is difficult to locate a sound like that ; I am not inclined, therefore, to
pay much attention to what other people said as to that point, but the
servants, &c. , said it seemed to be in different parts of the house, and
certainly could not agree as to any one definite part.
Perhaps what I wrote down at the time in regard to my servant (which
was written simply from the point of view of whether she was producing it
mischievously, and not from the wish to give an idea of how loud it was) will
convey a better impression of it ; I wrote down that my conviction was that
flhe could not haw made such a noise with a hammer even if she tried.
I have perhaps been rather unnecessarily particular in regard to this,
because I wish to show that while it naturally occurs to anyone, as indeed it
did to me, that I should need to hear it several times before I was sure that
it was not an ordinary "house noise," or connected with the bell-wires, or the
supposed cat, &c, as a matter of fact as soon as I heard it once I said to
myself, "That is enough, I don't need to hear it again to know quite well
enough what it is." I could well understand that the cook's brother preferred
the outside of the house when alone with the housemaid.
Nothing more occurred that night ; we went to bed at about 12, and in the
morning I got up at 7.15 approximately, and the servants then mustered
,sufficient courage to go downstairs. I should say they had not been down five
minutes before the bells began ringing. By the way, I should have said that
the evening before, with the aid of the policemen, we took down the board over
the bells, and could see all the wires -and how they ran. In the morning I
Alleged Movements, &c. 163
examined them still more carefully, with the result that I felt certain (atnd
I may as well state here that I was perfectly correct, as the bell-hanger after
wards proved) that the wires separated directly they left the bells and ran
each to its own particular part of the house, and thus entirely knocked on the
head the cat or rat theory ; since there was no point anywhere where more
than three wires ran at all near one another after leaving the bells, where
they were in full view. It would, I suppose, if there were no other reason to
preclude the idea, have taken at the very least four separate animals ringing
in concert.
The end bell and the call bell upstairs rang merrily that morning, and
all the others as well, at times. I suppose they rang at intervals of two,
three, or five minutes, not often longer than that without one or more ring
ing. They rang for about two hours and then subsided.
In the afternoon they rang again at 3.15 (when I was alone in the house
with the two servants), and rang for a quarter of an hour, stopping just
about when our friends who had come the night before called ; and we had
no more that day.
The next day, Sunday, I woke at 6.45, heard the servants go down at
about 7.30, and just afterwards the front door bell rang, when there was
certainly no one there. Nothing more occurred that day, or indeed has
occurred since, except on one Saturday (October 8th), the front door bell rang
in just the same way when they came down, and there was certainly no one
there. The possibility of a runaway ring is entirely out of the question, as I
will try to show in describing the house.
That was the last we heard or experienced.
It is of course impossible in writing an account like this to state all the
theories that occur to one's mind, and my reason for rejecting the ordinary
explanations'; I may say that I believe I am as capable as the average of
people of investigating the matter, and I was extremely careful to satisfy
myself of the tenability or otherwise of the hypotheses that naturally occurred
to me, and while of course it is not worth while to go into all these, I am
ready to give my reasons for rejecting or otherwise—or confessing that I had
not thought of—any hypothesis that may be stated.
I may as well, however, without waiting to be asked, go into some points
which to my mind effectually dispose of certain of the primafacie theories.
In the first place, as to the possibility of cats or rats doing it ; this is a
new house ; it was finished about a year last May, I came into it in July,
having had it papered, &c. We have never seen or heard the slightest trace
of a rat, nor have we ever to our knowledge had a strange cat in ; nor indeed
could one, as far as I know, get into the floor anywhere. I could give other
arguments if needful, but I think the way the wires run makes it entirely
unnecessary. The bath-room bell, for instance, which rang more perhaps
than any, is on the same wall as its bell-pull, which is on the first floor (i.e.,
two floors above the bell). The wire enters a tube in full view close by the
bell, goes right up in the tube to close to the handle ; the tube is visible to
within perhaps eight inches of the handle ; so that the wire is completely
isolated from all the other wires from the time it enters the tube close by the
bells. Then, as I have said, the other wires diverge from close by the bells,
in full view, and go straight to their own handles ; not all going into the roof
m 2
164 F. W. H. Myers.
as is so often the case. The bell-hanger entirely agreed with me that it
would be an impossibility for any animal or even animals to ring them all as
they were rung.
Next as to the question of trickery. Apart from the knowledge I have of
my pupils, &c, which would convince me that they had nothing to do with
it, the greater part of all the phenomena occurred when my housekeeper and
pupils were away, and very much of it when only the two servants were in
the house ; so that clearly no one of us was the guilty party ; and the cook
was out for some time while it went on, so that the housemaid was the only
one left in the house all the time. As she had only been in the house a week
or two of course I suspected her ; but I can say positively that as far as one
can trust the evidence of one's senses she was without doubt entirely free
from any complicity in it. For instance, I stood in the passage in front of
the nine bells watching them ring, with both the servants close by ; I had
them in the hall, thedining-room, and other placeswhile the bells were ringing ;
and once in particular I watched the housemaid on her knees in the middle
of the " wash-house " at the back of the house, scrubbing the tiles, while the
front door, area door, and bath-room bells were pealing violently. I could
give other reasons for feeling certain of her innocence, and, as I have said, no
one else was in the house all the time it went on. Apart from this (and from
the evidently painful way in which they were both affected, which in itself to
anyone who saw them would be sufficient to exculpate them, though of course
not carrying much weight when coming from second-hand), it would, I think,
be almost a mechanical impossibility for any, even the most ingenious
mechanic to contrive an arrangement for ringing the bells as they were rung.
There was, as a matter of fact, nothing done to the bells themselves or the wires
near them, as I was able to demonstrate perfectly easily by examining them,
and any apparatus for connecting the wires farther up would be, I think, next
door to an impossibility. Four of the bedroom bells have no bell-pull,
nothing but about an inch or so of wire projecting at the cornice, from the
ceiling. One of these goes simply up in the wall, crosses the roof, and goes
down some two feet to the call-bell, which I saw ringing merrily on the
Saturday morning.
However, I cannot describe all the apparatus here, only I might say that
the bell-hanger, plumber, and architect are all clear that it would prac
tically be an impossibility for anyone to arrange such an apparatus as would
be necessary to ring the bells so, even if they had no need to conceal it. The
same reasoning applies even more forcibly to the supposition of anyone doing
it outside the house. The house stands apart from any other, the nearest is
perhaps 50 yards or so and empty ; between the two and all around are plots
of building land growing vegetables, &c. By standing at the front door one
can see up and down the road for perhaps 300 yards each way, and it is out
of the question that anyone could be doing anything near the house without
being seen. A wall runs from the main road flush with the house on each side,
and perhaps 40 yards back, so that the outside of the house is quite open, and
there is no chance of anyone playing a trick. Of course, besides having this
knowledge I kept a good look-out while it was light ; especially on the Satur
day morning, when, e.g., I stood on the door-step, whence I could command
the two outer doors, while both of them and one indoor bell were ringing.
Alleged Movements, &c. 165
I asked the bell-hanger, &c, whether the " settling down " of the house
oould be the cause, as I know such occurrences have been brought about by
this ; but besides a priori reasons which he gave why the house should not
settle down, he said he was certain even had it done so it could not have
caused such ringing. Moreover, as a matter of fact, the house shows not the
least sign of settling down in any way.
I ought to say that the wires of the bells distinctly pulled—it was
not only the bells or clappers moving ; indeed, in one or two cases they could
be heard grating under the floor. The bell-handles were not moved.
One bell (I think only one) was more than once "pulled over," so that it
did not return to its normal position ; that I cannot do by pulling the handle,
so it gives some idea of the sharpness of the pull.
I have had a friend here lately, the science-master at the Grammar
School, and a thoroughly scientific man, and he says he is sure that the
ringing could not be the results of any magnetic influence. There was
nothing remarkable about the state of the weather, temperature, &c.
As to the knocking the following may give some idea as to the "reality"
of it ; two of my deaf pupils felt it when upstairs going to bed or already in
bed. One of them, whose attention I often cannot get by stamping as hard as
I can on the floor, felt it directly, ami going to the door hammered it with his
fist and asked if a man was downstairs doing so. The other one sat up in
bed directly I went up and asked what the knocking was. So that they not
only felt it, but sufficiently for it to create a considerable impression on
them, and without having been told of the knocking from any other quarter.
The latter can hear loud sounds, and so I cannot say for certain whether he
felt or heard it ; the other must have felt it, as he is quite deaf. Of the
other two one is too young to question at all satisfactorily on the point, the
other was unwell and asleep all the time (of the knocking).
Besides all the household I may as well say who else saw and heard the
occurrences ; the grocer, and one or two men working in the gardens near
the house heard the bell-ringing ; the baker, the laundry-man, and the cook's
brother, who are all entirely independent witnesses, heard the knocking, and
they were all considerably affected by it.
That the wires were not connected is shown, I think, by the fact that
when we rang one bell in the ordinary way it did not cause any others to
ring ; nor have we ever had any trouble with them in any way.
I think perhaps there is no reason to add anything to this ; but I shall be
most happy if you should wish for any further explanations, or to have more
evidence on any point, to furnish you with any information I have, or what
is perhaps more to the point, to say if I have not the information. I may
say that I have had no theory proposed which is to my mind at all consistent
with the facts ; and friends are quite untiring in propounding new theories !
While extremely interested in the work of the Psychical Society, I can
feel sure of not being at all biassed by any predilections towards explaining
things by means of " Psychic " forces, to the prejudice of any more simple
explanation.
I am not aware whether any of the Reports deal with similar occurrences ;
if there should be one I should be glad to have it. I have only occasionally
seen odd numbers.
166 F. W. H. Myers.
If you should wiah, as of course you have a perfect right, to have any
testimony to my reliableness as a witness, or capability of weighing, &c,
scientific evidence, I have no doubt I could satisfy you.
November 11th, 1887.
Dear Sir,—I bog to acknowledge receipt of letter, and am glad to find
that my communication is of interest. I shall be pleased to give any facility
for investigation that I am able.
I had not expected to be able to give any further news, as at the time I
wrote everything had been quiet for some time. I have, however, further
occurrences to report which, to my mind, are especially interesting, as con
firming, as well as surpassing, the nature of the previous phenomena. Un
fortunately I was away at the time ; however, it is in my opinion extremely
probable that my absence directly contributed to what took place, as I will
show later on, and therefore I ought not to complain.
I went out last Saturday morning, November 5th, leaving the household
constituted as I have mentioned in my former notes ; my lady-housekeeper,
two servants, and four deaf pupils. I was away for the Sunday, and on the
Monday morning I had a letter from my housekeeper, Mrs. K., tell
ing me of what was going on. I returned home as soon as possible, but
everything had ceased then and nothing more has happened.
I have, therefore, to depend on what Mrs. K. tells me, and others who
were here. Mrs. K. gave me a full account on the Monday evening ; and
Mr. Smith, who was here most of Sunday afternoon and night, wrote out at
the time all that Mrs. K. told him and all that occurred while he was there.
I have since had his notes and find that they agree with what Mrs. K. told me
in every important particular ; where there is any difference I will note it. I
have perfect confidence that the facts as told me are entirely correct.
On the Saturday evening the servants were just going to have supper, at
about 10 o'clock, when one bell, I believe the bath-room, rang violently, and
they ran upstairs to Mrs. K. in a fright. (I might mention, by the way, that it
is an additional evidence of the nature of the ringing that, I believe every
time, it has left no doubt in our minds directly that it is not the ordinary
ringing, it is so much more violent and sharp. )
Mrs. K. sent the cook immediately for the bell-hanger, as we had
promised to do in case of recurrence of the ringing, and kept the housemaid
in the dining-room with her. While they were there, and just as the cook
had got from the area steps into the garden, the bath-room bell rang violently
again. (The boys were all sound asleep.)
Nothing more occurred ; the bell-hanger could make nothing of it ; he
stayed till 12 and then left. The housemaid was much upset by it, but
I will return to that later on.
Next day Mrs. K. took the boys to service, and when they came back
they found the following phenomena had occurred. The cook told her (and I
believe she is perfectly trustworthy, as far as truthfulness goes) that soon
after they left the bells had begun to ring, two of them at least, and so
violently that at last she got the steps and got two of the bells off, the school
room and dining-room bells I think. After that they heard the wires pulled
in the floor, &c.
They then went upstairs to do the bedrooms, Mary (the housemaid)
Alleged Movements) &c.
clinging to her, as she did all the time, being too scared to go about by her
self. When they had got halfway up the " knocking" began, just as on the
previous occasion, and as I had heard it, in sets of two and three quickly
repeated raps, or rather blow's. They ran downstairs directly, in a fright. At
last they summoned courage enough to go up, and going into the bedroom
where two of the boys sleep, they found the hair-brush belonging to one of
them on the floor by the fireplace, smashed in half. It was broken length
ways, somewhat thus,
and only holding together by one thread. It had been used by the boy only
just before he went out ; and he was much distressed when he saw it, and
clearly it was all right when he had left it. The cook says she is certain Mary
had not been up at all since the boys left. The brush shows no signs of ill-
usage except the breakage.
They went upstairs to the top floor, and were there some minutes, I
suppose, Mary keeping close to the cook all the time ; when they came down
to the first floor they found a chair that had been in the bath-room (is always
there) a few steps downstairs ; i.e., it had got along the landing, about 15ft.,
down four steps, round a double corner, and down a few stairs of the main
flight, where it was leaning backwards, on its "hind legs," and resting on
the stairs above it. The below will give a ' ' ground plan " of that part of the
house.
M
LANDING
DOWN
ft u
STAIRS PP
■+-+■
A. Bath-room door.
B. Front bedroom door.
C. My bedroom door.
D. Mrs. K.'s bedroom door.
The arrows on the steps are supposed to point downwards, so that the
shaded part of the floor is lower than the rest of the landing. It is about
15ft. from the bath-room door to the top of the four stops.
The double CO shows where the chair was found.
In addition to this a chair had "come" out of Mrs. K.'s room and was
situated at the top of the stairs, I am not sure exactly where ; some things
which had been on it, an apron and a scarf, were on the floor near.
They left them so till Mrs. K. came home, and she put the bath-room
chair away, and set the other in the corner (O m the above plan). Mrs. K;
replaced also the apron and scarf, and went up again soon after dinner and
found them on the floor.
Meanwhile the " call " bell at the top of the house rang, while dinner was
168 F. W. H. Myers.
being set, so after dinner the cook was sent to fetch the bell-hanger and also
a friend, Mr. S., who had promised to stay with them in case of need.
During the afternoon Mrs. K. again and again replaced the things on the
chair. She got her heaviest boot as being less easily moved than the scarf,
and put the apron at the bottom, then the boot, then a cap on the top of all.
When the cook had gone out Mrs. K. had Mary in the dining-room with
her ; then went up herself, leaving her there, and found them off (the
apron and scarf she had found off twice at least, before she put the boot
on), the boot on the floor two steps above the level of where the chair was,
the cap near my bedroom door, the apron unfolded on the floor (near the
chair, I suppose).
Mr. S. came at about 6.30, and Mary let him in and then went down
stairs. Mrs. K. took him up and showed him the boot, &c, and they re
placed them on the chair.
(Mr. S. wrote "boots" all through, instead of boot. He says he
thought there was a pair joined together, but had not noticed particularly.
That is the only point of difference all through between his notes and what
Mrs. K. told me.)
Then he and Mrs. K. went to the top floor to see that all was right,
having carefully shut the three bedroom doors. A, B, C in the sketch.
They were there for about two minutes, and within hearing and all but
within sight of the landing below. They then came down and found the three
doors wide open, and the chair just at the top of the stairs, that is, having
moved about three feet. The things were on the chair.
About this time the bell-hanger came. They again moved the chair back
and took him into my bedroom to tell him about it ; they were there about
one minute, and came out ; they found the boots and cap halfway downstairs.
Once Mrs. K. found the things still on the chair, but the apron on the top
of the boot, instead of vice versa ; she is certain of this.
Mr. Smith also saw a drawer in the servants' room which the cook says
had been shut. She said the night before that she thought something had
been moved in her room, and when she went up to fetch the bed down to
Mrs. K.'s room at night she said she would leave the drawer open and see if
those things were moved in the morning, or something to that effect ; when
she went in the morning she found the drawer shut, as far as the contents,
which were sticking out (as though it had been shut carelessly), would allow.
She was certain that Mary had not been upstairs in the interval.
The last of these occurrences upstairs was about 8.20 p.m. Mrs. K. went
upstairs with Mary (who dared not go anywhere by herself that day) and
saw the things on the chair as usual, and saw that they were not touched by
Mary ; when they came down the cap was on the floor close to my bedroom
door.
During the afternoon the bell-wires were pulled more than once under
the dining-room floor ; the bells were off, so of course there was no ringing.
After tea the proceedings began downstairs. The cook came up at about
7.45 and said that her hamper, which had stood on a chair in the passage,
had been moved on to the floor by the door. They all went downstairs and
inspected the premises and came up, leaving the two servants below. Very
soon afterwards the cook missed the coal-scuttle, and found it in the middle
Alleged Movev^nts, &c.
of the scullery floor. Mr. S. is certain it was not there when he looked
just before. There is no passage through the scullery and no coals or fire
there, so that the servants never take the scuttle through there, else one
would naturally suppose they had set it down there and forgotten it.
Soon after, Mary's scarf or muffler was wanted, and it had disappeared.
It had been hanging over the bannisters at the foot of the kitchen stairs.
The bell-hanger was going round to inspect the place soon after, and found it
at the end of the conservatory (that is, on the floor above the kitchen). He
seemed to be struck especially by this, feeling sure that no one had come up
stairs then.
The wires pulled a little under the dining-room floor that evening.
Nothing further happened after Mary left the house at 8.30 ; the bell-
hanger stayed all night, sitting up. Nothing has occurred since then.
Of course any one of the above movements by itself must necessarily
appear incredible and ridiculous, or rather (since the facts are certain), it
would be absurd to suppose any extraordinary cause, and one would suppose
there had simply been some oversight. Taken altogether, however, and in
connection with the bell-ringing, &c. , I think they are of much more im
portance.
I cannot help now connecting the occurrences with the housemaid ;
though perhaps, since there is no direct evidence to that effect, it may not
appear so to others, and an outsider would be able to judge that better. Of
course I do not want in the least to let her know I think this, though I am
afraid she begins to suspect it herself at times, as she naturally, finding that
the things never happen when she is away, puts things together, and has
said it seems a strange thing that it should be so.
I am, as I have said, perfectly certain that she had nothing to do volun
tarily with the bell-ringing ; indeed, the more I think of it the more I am
convinced that it would be literally impossible for her to ring the bells as
they were rung, even apart from any necessity to conceal the method of
doing so.
If any further proof of her freedom from complicity were needed, her
state on the Saturday night would be enough to convince anyone. She was
delirious all night, at least till four in the morning ; she slept in Mrs. K.'s
room, and Mrs. K. and the cook sat up with her all night, and had often to
hold her down ; at one time she got up and would have gone out of the room
had she not been prevented ; she was clearly asleep, though most of the
time her eyes were wide open, I suppose in the ordinary " somnambulist"
state. She talked incessantly all night, very much about the bells, &c, and
in such a way as to show she was completely alarmed and terrified at it. She
also went through all her week's work, they said, talking about everything, and
coming to Sunday she went through almost the whole of the Church Service,
giving the responses and always leaving time for the clergyman to do his part ;
she sang four hymns all through, intoned the Te Deum, went through the
Litany, and started on the (alternate verses of the) Psalms, but I suppose
did not remember them, for she did not complete them ; then she left about
20 minutes for the sermon ! They thought she had gone off to sleep, but
she came out with an Amen, or something which showed what had been in
the interval ; then she greeted her friends in her ordinary tone of voice ; in
176 F. TP", H. Myers.
fact, she acted the whole of what she would have done at the time. She did,
by the way, let out one small secret about her work which she would not
willingly have done, so that I think anyone would be convinced that had she
had any hand in the production of the phenomena she must have given a hint
of it ; however, I must repeat that this additional evidence was certainly not
needed.
One might have thought she moved the things in a somnambulic state ;
but they all feel certain that it would have been impossible for her to have
come upstairs and done most of the things, when they were perfectly within
hearing and almost within sight, without its being known. Besides this,
there is direct evidence that she had been in the dining-room once at least
all the time when one of the movements took place ; besides the fact that
in the morning prior to the breaking of the brush, &c, she had actually
been with the cook entirely, being afraid to leave her.
In addition to this the bath-room door, one of those opened when Mr.
Smith was upstairs, could not bo opened by the handle without being
hammered with the hand at the top at the same time, since, when pushed any
where in the middle, the top stuck ; if, however, the top was pushed with the
rest, no doubt there would have been no need to strike the top. I merely
mention this because it struck them at the time that it was conclusive
evidence to them that no one had been up to open it, else they would have
heard the noise.
The housemaid was sent home next evening (Sunday), as they were quite
afraid she would have brain fever if she passed another such night.
You will see that the occurrences have taken place almost always, if not
always, when she has been in a state of nervous excitement ; the servants
were both rather nervous when I was to go out for the Sunday, and in the
previous instance she had been upset iti her nerves for some days previously.
She is a young girl and has never been out to service before, and I had only
had her a few weeks prior to the first occurrence of these manifestations.
I shall be very glad to give any assistance I am able towards investiga
tion, and shall be pleased if anyone should wish to stay for a night or so to
receive them ; of course I have no means of anticipating any recurrence,
but you may wish someone to see the position of the bells, &c, and I
shall be glad to do anything to facilitate an inquiry.
November 23rd, 1887.
Dear Sir,—I am afraid my last letter conveyed a slight misapprehension,
judging from Mr. G. A. Smith's letter of November 14th. I did not intend
to convey the impression that my servant had left permanently or for any
length of time ; she only went for one night, and returned the next day.
Since that time nothing further has occurred ; and unfortunately for
investigation, i.e., as far as asking anyone to come for the purpose is con
cerned, one of my pupils is ill with a slight attack of scarlet fever, which
would, of course, make it rather awkward to give full facilities for investiga
tion ; still, of course, it will not be long, I hope, before that is quite got rid of,
and if we should have any further occurrences I shall be glad to telegraph to
you, only, of course, these things are apparently so sporadic that one can
never tell how long they are going to last when they once begin, as far as one
can judge from the previous experience.
Alleged Movements, &c. 171
One thing within the last few days has afforded, perhaps, some evidence as
to the nature of the bell-ringing, or may do. In preparing the room for the
patient mentioned above we attached a cord to the bell-wire which projects
from the cornice about two inches or less, so as to have communication with
the bell ; but they found that the bell did not ring, and I have little doubt
that the wire is broken. Under present circumstances I must postpone
having the bell-hanger till we can have him safely, but when he examines it,
it may throw some light on the subject. The wire appears once again (under
the bath) before it reaches the bell, and there I find it is perfectly right, and
in full communication with the bell, nor is there any sign when pulling
bachivards at that point of any breakage ; hence I think it follows that,
however the wire was broken, it could not have been done by pulling in that
place, and we know that the " handle " (i.e., the inch or two of wire in the
bedroom) was not pulled, so I think as far as one can see no person could have
broken it there. I should say that I know it was all right at the time when
the bells " rang," for I tried it by means of a pole with a hook at the end
(it can hardly be reached without something of the sort), and they did not
break it when tying the cord on, for the bell did not ring once. Certainly,
judging from the way in which the bells rang, it is not surprising if a wire
broke ; however, as soon as possible I will have it seen to.
I think I gave some account of the way in which I tried to make it certain
that neither of the servants had anything to do (mechanically) with ringing
the bells ; and certainly I proved it if the evidence of one's senses has any
weight. With regard to the other occurrences I will endeavour to state
clearly whatproof there is of this. First, however, I may mention one or two
additional facts about the bell-ringing. I did not lay much stress on this in
my first letter, as I had not been able to speak to the witness referred to, but
I have lately seen him (the brother of my cook, whom, I believe, I referred to
as having been fetched by her to stay in the house with the housemaid while
siie went for us, when the " knocking" was going on). He tells me that he
was standing with the housemaid on the front door-step for some time while
the bells were ringing, and no one else (except the boys, who were upstairs) in
the house, and that he is certain she was not and could not be ringing them.
They went there simply because they did not like staying in the house while it
was going on. I understood him to say that he is not sure that there was any
knocking while they were there. He says that when he was down in the
kitchen the knocking was clearly in the floor above, i.e., the dining-room
floor, which corresponds with my own experience. At other times he says it
was in various parts of the house.
The other thing is that I am not sure whether I called particular atten
tion to the time when one of the bells rang on Saturday night (November
5th) ; that was, I think, as clear evidence as possible that neither servant had
anything to do with it. Mrs. K. had the housemaid in the dining-room
with her while the cook went for the bell-hanger ; and while they were both
in the dining-room, and the cook had just got to the top of the steps outside
the house, the bath-room bell rang violently, so loudly that the cook started
and turned round and made some exclamation.
With regard to the other class of phenomena, I do not think Mrs. K.
took particular means to have clear proof that the servants were distinctly
172 F. W. H. Myers.
watched and unable to have done the things (assuming that, being hysterical,
they might have done so unconsciously), except in one case. I have
inquired closely into that and I think it is definite enough. She tells me
that on the Sunday afternoon there was at least one time when she knew the
movements of all in the house, when the things were moved off the chair. It
was when the cook went for Mr. Smith. Mrs. K. saw her come downstairs
and saw that the things were on the chair ; then she called for the house
maid to come up from the kitchen and be with her in the dining-room, and
she came up then, only going into the school-room on the way, so that Mrs.
K. (standing in the hall) saw that she did not go upstairs. They sat in the
dining-room for some minutes, and then Mrs. K. went out, leaving the house
maid in the dining-room, and found the boot on the floor two steps higher
than the landing where the chair was, the cap near my room door, and tho
apron on the floor. She says she is certain she had Mary under her eye all
the time from when she came up from the kitchen. The boys were quietly in
the school-room, and beyond the bell-ringing, knew nothing of the occur
rences all the time.
I wish they could have given clearer proof as to the whereabouts of the
servants at other times. Both Mrs. K. and Mr. Smith were absolutely
certain no one could have come upstairs when they were above, and when
they were in my room with the bell-hanger ; this, however, is not, of course,
direct proof that no one did. I believe, however, the one case given above to
be satisfactory evidence, so far as it goes.
I might mention that when the bell-hanger came he very wisely did set
himself to make sure of that, and so he turned the gas down and sat in a
loom on the top of the stairs to watch if the housemaid came up ; unfortu
nately the cook took the same idea into her head at the same time, and sat
at the bottom of the stairs, neither of the two knowing of the other's being
there, so that between them they defeated their own ends, —at any rate the
housemaid did not come up when they were there, but I don't think they
were there long, so that is not much evidence in her favour.
I am not sure if you wished me to tabulate instances in connection with
the bell-ringing and knocking to show that the servants were watched carefully.
If so, I will do so. I did this, however, in so many different ways that I
did not take account of them all, and cannot trust my memory for all the
details, so that I should only give the five or six cases of which I took special
note in this regard. If I can make the evidence clearer by doing so I will
tabulate the cases that I know of which are certain, of all kinds.
Mr. D.'s housekeeper, Mrs. K., confirms as follows :—
Mr. D. having read over the account to me of tho occurrences which
took place in this house, I find that they agree with my recollection entirely.
April 3rd, 1890.
In a further letter (April 4th, 1890) Mr. D. adds : "In my letter of
November 23rd, 1887, I mentioned the fact of one of the bell-wires being out
of order. I should say that upon examination it was found to be not broken,
but only fixed so tightly that it could not be pulled by the handle. This
does not alter the case in any way, except that I had assumed the breakage
to have been caused by the ringing ; if the fixing were caused by it, it amounts
Alleged Movements, <&c. 173
to the same thing practically ; if not, it is clear evidence that the ringing did
not take place from the handle."
Group A. Case X. (S. 8.)
I go on to another case of a more prolonged and complex kind.
Account of Physical Phenomena Obtained in a Family Circle.
Professor Alexander, of the University of Rio de Janeiro, is well-
known to me, and I have also made the acquaintance of Mr. and Mrs.
Davis and of the two children. I feel confident that the following
narratives have been written with candour and care. Mr. Davis
occupies a responsible position as a telegraphist. The power of the
children has not, I believe, returned.
In the following narration of phenomena that occurred in a family circle
at Rio de Janeiro, a difficulty is felt in presenting the evidence so as to give
a right impression of its value. Facts isolated from the series to which they
belong are, like quotations without their context, apt to be misleading. And
yet much in such cases as the following is of too private a nature for publicity.
There are names and circumstances that concern outside people, and that
must not in consequence be mentioned ; and there is, as will be readily under
stood, much that is too intimate to be referred to, even in what regards
ourselves. This consideration leads me to exclude what is after all of small
importance—the messages themselves, and to limit myself to as fair a de
scription as possible of the physical phenomena through which they were
obtained.
About the middle of 1888 we received in Rio the visit of the notorious
Henry Slade, who, after an unsuccessful stay of a few weeks, left us to go to
Buenos Ayres, whence he returned to Rio after about six weeks' absence.
He then seemed to be more fortunate in his sittings ; and, although in this
account I should prefer refraining from even a passing mention of public
mediumship, it is only just to attribute to him the great interest which was
then kindled in psychical phenomena, and perhaps the awakening of the
power through which they were obtained. Mr. Davis, whose acquaintance I
made at the time of Slade's first stay among us, was incited to form a circle
at home. He was living in a small country house, which stood alone on the
side of a hill overlooking the seashore ; but in the month of November, 1888,
he moved to a residence at the foot of the hill, and much nearer the sea.
While Slade was in Buenos Ayres, some 25 or more daily sittings were held
by Mr. Davis without the least result.
At last, on August 14th, some slight manifestations were obtained with a
tolerably good proof of identity, and, on their rapidly increasing in power
and frequency, I was kindly invited to form part of the circle. The sitters who
thenceforward composed it were Mr. Davis, Mrs. Davis,theirdaughters, C. and
A. [who were respectively twelve and a-half and nine and a-half years old],
Mrs. Z. , their maternal grandmother, and myself. To these we may add a Mr.
X., one of Mr. Davis's friends, who, however, was not quite so regular in his
attendance. Outsiders were admitted some three times—just often enough to
174 F. W. H. Myers.
show us that, although ready believers in the greatest marvels, their exclusion
was in general a wise measure. One of them, an illiterate Brazilian, whose
mediumship we wished to try, stopped all real phenomena, and, dozing off
into a somnambulic sleep, told us that St. Bernard was present. Another
became, apparently, self-mesmerised, and acted foolishly. The third, an
old friend of Mr. Davis's, saw some weak manifestations, which were quite
sufficient to surprise and awe him. The testimony of the latter might be
obtained, but would be of slight importance. The evidence depends almost
entirely on the members of the circle, and must be measured by their
competence as observers and reputation for probity.
In the latter part of August and during the ensuing months proof came
upon proof of the reality of the so-called psychic force, and of the strange self-
assertive intelligence that accompanies it. Heavy objects were moved
without conscious effort on our part, and sometimes without any kind of
contact. What seemed to be direct writing came on the walls and in closed
books, and this was, moreover, obtained on slates under the more exact
observation of the regular sittings. Raps were very frequent, and ranged
from the lightest taps to the heaviest blows. Impressions of fingers, and
once that of a foot, were supernormally made on flour. Clairvoyance, and in
a lesser degree clairaudience, were developed ; and the touches and grasp of
hands, not seemingly belonging to any of the sitters, were sometimes felt
even by myself. Marked characteristics of individuality were maintained
throughout in each and all of the media of manifestation ; and in some
instances there were more decided indications that the intelligence at work was
not all referable to the subconscious cerebration of the persons present. The
phenomena came at first in season and out of season ; the instruments through
which they were evolved were simple English children, and their only effect
was a natural elation at their occurrence, and the quickening on our part of
the powers of observation and reasoning by the stimulus of curiosity^ After
growing in intensity,and giving us reason to expect still more wonderful mani
festations, the power at length declined so much that it was at one time
reduced to mere automatic writing. This coincided with the change of
residence, but was, I think, still more to be attributed to the heat of an
exceptionally bad summer. As it grew cool again the power revived, but
never reached the pitch to which it had attained in 1888, and on June 4th,
1889, the coming of Mr, Davis's family to England put an end to our
sittings.
Now, from first to last there was nothing that could with any justice be
referred to morbid conditions of the nervous system, whether in the children
themselves, or in the adults who observed them ; nor were any of the sitters
during these occurrences in any other than an apparently normal state of
consciousness. Warned by failures and disappointments in other quarters,
both Mr. Davis and I were disposed to subject whatever happened to
rigorous inquiry, and to judge each single phenomenon on its own
merits.
Prom the notes taken at the time and from my own memory, corrected by
that of the other sitters, I will now endeavour to give the details of our
phenomena ; and for the sake of order, I will classify them, not so much
according to their sequence in time, as according to their kind,
Alleged Movenients, &c.
Movements op Heavy Bodies Attributable to Psychic Fouce.
At the first successful sitting of August 14th, at which Mr. and Mrs.
Davis and the two children C. and A. were present, table-tilting took place,
the hands of the sitters being, according to their usual custom, joined on the
table. On taking down the letters indicated by the tilts, the name of a
relative long deceased was given as Fanny Z., and this was insisted on,
although the sitters supposed it to be Frances. Mrs. Z. , who was not in the
room at the time, was then called in, and she affirmed that Fanny had
always been the familiar name of the deceased, although her real name was
Frances. The minds of the sitters were positively set against the name given
by the table, until it was corroborated by Mrs. Z.
Thenceforward the power, as before said, developed rapidly ; and mani
festations were made spontaneously, or could be had for the asking at any
hour of the day. It was shortly after this first outbreak of phenomena that
I myself went up by invitation to Mr. Davis's house to take part in a sitting.
At tea the dining-room table, round which were seated Mr. Davis, Mrs. Davis,
their five little daughters, Mrs. Z., and I, swayed backward and forward, or
rose at one end in sudden emphatic movements, which often meant, according
to the usual " yes " or "no" signals, approval or disapproval of assertions made
in the conversation. During this irregular proceeding of the table the two
elder girls, C. and A., from whom the power seems to have been principally
drawn, sat quite still, one on each side of their mother, who was
favourably placed to detect any interference on their part. The same thing
occurred on other occasions when I was present, and, as Mr. Davis assured me
at the time, it was even stronger at those meals in which the members of the
family were alone. The table, in fine, acted like a restless, living creature
endowed with human intelligence. The tone adopted in conversing with
these strange influences was rather a bantering one ; and once, on my retiring
from the room after tea, the table ran after me, and made a decided attempt
to hem me in. C. was at the moment the only other person present in the
room ; and, as far as I could see,she did not even touch the table,much less did
she push it. On another occasion the table, while all were seated round it, rose
and fell staidly and deliberately,in a manner, that is to say, so different from
its usual behaviour that we at once supposed the presence of a new influence.
The alphabet was called for, and repeated ; and the name of a lady was given
who in former years had been a personal acquaintance of Mrs. Z.'s. The
others had merely heard of her. Her age, which I must not mention here, as
it might give a clue to her identity to surviving relatives, was then spoken
of ; but a mistake was made in the number of years, against which the table
immediately protested, correcting Mrs. Z. in the units, which, it seems, were
5 and not 4. Mrs. Z. at once acknowledged that her memory had betrayed
her, and that the invisible influence was right.
Other phenomena of a spontaneous character, or that came at our desire,
were still more conclusive of the presence of psychic force than the rather
uncomfortable proceedings of the tea-table. The high chair in which Amy,
a child then 13 months old, was seated, was moved backwards and forwards
about 10 or 12 inches, between the table and the wall, this being done so
abruptly that the chair was sometimes forced partly under the table, and
threatened to fall backwards. The child, instead of being alarmed, chuckled
176 F. W. H. Myers.
and laughed, though we older people were sometimes rather anxious lest she
should be hurt. At our request the chair would be righted, and the violence
of the movement moderated. On the right hand of the child was seated Mrs.
Z. ; on the left A. The chair, while moving, kept parallel with the table,
i.e., it was not twisted round as would be the case if it were drawn forward
on one side only by the foot of either of the neighbours ; and it generally slid
across, and not along the boards of the floor, which, as usual in Brazilian
houses, were uncarpeted. I have tried moving the same chair myself, when
seated beside Amy, and find that, although I have rather more than the
average strength in my lower limbs, the push can be given only with consider
able difficulty, and has the effect of turning the chair half round. If, then,
instead of having, as is now the case, every reason to trust Mrs. Z. and her
granddaughter, I had the best founded motives for mistrust, I should—
in the absence of all visible mechanism—have considered that particular
phenomenon to be a genuine one.
Another noteworthy incident occurred with a favourite dog, called Tiny,
which, according to its time-honoured custom, was seated on a chair, which
stood away from the table near the wall. Nobody being near it, I jokingly
challenged the invisible influence so to move the chair that the dog might be
obliged to jump down. Nothing happened for a minute or so, when the dog
left the chair—apparently of its own accord. Two or three seconds elapsed
after it had sprung to the ground ; and then the chair tilted before us all.
In the same way a child's swing, hanging in a nook of the room, was at my
desire subjected to a slight but very visible oscillation, which was closely
watched by Mr. Davis and myself. There was, it is true, an open window at
the back ; but, as we carefully noted at the time, no perceptible breeze cam©
through it ; the temperature inside and outside the house was more or less
equal, the air on the verandah being that of a characteristically motionless
Brazilian night.
An account of a phenomenon of levitation suggested another tea-table
experiment. I requested C, who was seated two places from me, her
little sister D. being between us, to place her hand on the back of my
chair, which she did, touching it with apparent lightness. The chair began
at once to sway from side to side, and continued to do so after I had taken
my feet from the ground. There was an application of great power, sufficient,
indeed, to give ample proof of the action of psychic force, if not to lift me
from the floor. All this while C. sat immovable ; and it was very manifest
that she made not the slightest effort. The next evening Mr. X. , who is very
muscular, took C.'s seat, while I retained my own ; and he then tried to
produce the same effect under exactly the same conditions, with the result
that his chair slid back, while mine remained immovable. My weight, which
I suppose has not changed to any considerable degree since then, I find to be
13st. 61b.
Some other experiments with tables were made under the more direct
observation of the regular sittings, at which I soon became a very constant
attendant. On one occasion a light three-footed table was inverted ; and my
hands, with those of Mr. Davis, Mrs. Davis, and the two girls, were lightly
placed on each of the feet. Care was taken to see that no one did more than
just touch the feet of the table ; and, under these conditions, it sprang rapidly
Alleged Movements, &c. 177
from the floor into the lap of one of the sitters, and thence to the floor again,
repeating this manoeuvre for each of us in turn. In the Thursday evening
seances it was common for the table to place itself in the necessary position on
our sitting down to it, either immediately before or after our hands had been
placed on its surface. These movements, however, nearly always took us by
surprise, and, as we had in view the study of far more important phenomena,
we did not subject them to any very exact tests.
An interesting case of apparent alteration in the weight of a table was
observed by Mr. X. when C. was standing by. At his own request, and
while he held it in his hands alone, it became alternately very light and very
heavy, so much so that, although it was nothing more than an ordinary card
table, he was more than once obliged to put it down.
I will include here the account of an interesting phenomenon witnessed
beforehand with Slade, but which, in the case of a professional medium, is
very liable to be attributed to conjuring. Having one day walked over the
hill to visit Mr. Davis, I found on arriving that the children were just finishing
their morning lessons. It occurred to me, as I saw the slates and books on
the table, that I might try with A. for the disappearance of a solid object ;
and, when we were left alone in the room, we held together, at my suggestion,
a slate on which a book had been placed, keeping it, according to precedent,
just under the table. The slate was twisted round with some force, and the
book fell to the ground. So far it was a failure. 1 then took a slate pencil of
about the usual length, which was lying on the table, placed it on the slate,
and again held the latter,with the help of the little medium, out of sight in the
shade of the table. After a few moments the slate was drawn out by us—
the pencil had gone. We looked for it on the floor, under the table, but in
vain. On replacing the slate in position, the pencil apparently fell on to it.
I resolved to try once more ; and the second time, under exactly the same
conditions, the pencil disappeared. This time, besides looking for the pencil
elsewhere, I obliged A. to shake her arms ; and, calling Mr. Davis from the
next room, I explained what had occurred, and asked him to take part in the
search. Equally unsuccessful for the first few moments, he at length passed
his hand inside the crossbeam of the table that runs between the legs, and
the pencil came into his hand as if put there. Now, at that particular spot
the crossbeam was smooth and vertical ; the pencil itself was almost point
less, and could not have been pressed into the hard vinliatico wood of which
the table was made. Add to this that the experiment was to the little girl
an entirely novel one, and that she was under my own observation in broad
daylight, and could hardly have let go of the slate for any appreciable length
of time without my perceiving it. Her other hand was joined with mine on
the table.
Raps.
From the first outbreak of the phenomena raps were the principal means,
used for announcing the supposed spirit presence. They came on the floor,
on the table, arid, more rarely, on the walls, in signals which from the beginning
were sharply individualised for each separate influence, the same individuality
maintaining its characteristics throughout the sittings. As before stated,
they varied in loudness from hardly perceptible ticks up to resounding blows,
such as might be struck by a large wooden mallet. In the quality of some.
N
178 F. W. H. Myers.
of those sounds there were also marked and persistent distinctions. These
differences are given, as far as they can be represented in dash and dot, in
the following list, taken from Mr. Davis's notebook, which is, however, by no
means complete. The size of the marks roughly represents the comparative
loudness of the raps :
', - — — jo.
-. a n u _
IS.
I - I ; — / II
i to 17. \ \ \ \ A \
Now, I hold it to be extremely improbable that any of us, including even
such a practised telegraphist as Mr. Davis himself, should be able to retain
in his memory for any length of time, at least without special study, such a
variety of sounds so as to give them at the end of a series of sittings in exactly
the same way in which they were given at the beginning. This individuality
of the raps was early forced upon our notice ; and we learnt to recognise them
when heard, though none of us could reproduce more than a very few from
memory.
One evening in the month of September, 1888, Mr. Davis went into the
room of the two elder girls, where A. was already in bed and asleep, taking
C. with him. They had no candle ; but through the ventilating aperture
over the door came in sufficient light to show the position of the persons
and objects in the room. Both sat down on the bedside ; C. took
off her slippers ; and heavy blows, like those that might be dealt by a muffled
sledge hammer, came on the floor. Mr. Davis then obliged C. to sit
on the floor with him, placing her feet on his knees, and holding her two
1 More is figured here than mere dash and dot could give : the vertical strokes
represent a sharp sound ; the horizontal ones a sound more or less prolonged, accord
ing to the lengths given. The intervals between the strokes show approximately the
intervals between the raps that made up each signal ; and the thickness of the strokes
indicates the comparative loudness. The blot, which we were told to put for No. 6,
stands for a very heavy thud, usually dealt on the table.
Alleged Movements, &c. 179
hands in his own. The same blows came, but with even more intensity ; and
they were finally requested by Mrs. Davis from another room not to make so
much noise, as they would wake the children who were sleeping in other
parts of the house. The blows seemed to Mr. Davis to shake the whole
building. Mr. X. also witnessed similar phenomena on another occasion.
On the night of April 25th, 1889, Mr. Davis had occasion to go into his
daughters' room, where A. was lying asleep, and heard rapping going on
all round her. At the sittings the raps were, of course, used as a medium for
messages, in which they seemed to us to be more reliable than the automatic
writing, and equally so with the direct writing.
On April 18th, 1889, at one of our Thursday evening sittings, when the
room had been thoroughly darkened, nine or ten silent movements made by
Mr. Davis's finger were reproduced in raps on the floor at the other end of the
room ; but, on his calling our attention to this, and trying to obtain it again,
the attempt failed. Another experiment was, however, more successful.
Mr. Davis tapped out the alphabet from A to Z and the numbers from 1 to 0
in Morse signals. At each letter given the same sound was exactly imitated,
the raps coming again near the elder girl on the floor at the other end of the
room. The imitation was, indeed, so perfect that Mr. Davis declared it was
his own " sending." Nevertheless, no message was given in Morse signals,the
reason affirmed being that, as the medium did not know telegraphy, they
could not use her for that purpose. Now, Mr. Davis was the only person
present who knew anything at all about Morse signals ; and 1 found after
wards, on trying, that only after repeated failures could I succeed in tapping
them out myself. In the raps that came on this occasion one only mistake
was made at the letter Q, which was, however, correctly given the second
time. All the other letters were smartly reproduced without the slightest
hesitation. On other occasions, and once or twice when Mr. P. was present,
Morse signals were in the same way struck out by violent blows on the table,
even after the legs of the older sitters had been stretched across under the
table to preclude the possibility of any kicking by the children. But the
principal guarantee of the genuineness of the phenomenon was doubtless
the fact that the blows imitated Morse signals, the more so that Mr. X.
found, when he tried alone, that, although he knew telegraphy well, he
could not kick out the signals with his feet.
I may say that, in spite of the many little proofs we had obtained of the
genuineness of our phenomena, my attitude and that of Mr. Davis towards
each repetition of the manifestations was always one of watchful suspicion.
Protests were often made by the influences at work ; and it was affirmed that
we hindered their action by our persistent doubts. One Sunday evening, on
our sitting down to the accustomed seance,raps cavne on the table immediately ;
and I profited by them to ask if our invisible guest would choose the chapter
in the New Testament, which was always read on those occasions. The raps
answered " Yes," and asked for the alphabet, whereupon Mr. Davis wrote
the letters on a slate, and ran over them, pencil in hand, while he carefully kept
them out of view of the other sitters. Raps came at certain letters ; but they
made no sense, so that he passed the slate to me, asking me to try in my
turn. I held the slate close to my face in such a manner as to allow nobody
to see it but myself, and at the beginning made a pause with the pencil at
X 2
180 F. W. H. Myers.
the first four or five letters ; but, soon recollecting that anyone watching me
might count the movements of the pencil and so be aware of the letter to
which I was pointing, I changed to a continuous movement, and thus raps
came at M, A, R, and Q. It was evidently Mark ; and the sixth chapter and
fifth verse being further indicated, we found on opening the Bible : "And He
could there do no mighty work, save that He laid His hands upon a few sick
folk, and healed them." The sixth verse continues: "And He marvelled
because of their unbelief." Another chapter was also similarly chosen, in
which there was an example of the power of faith ; but so many chapters
contain such examples that we cannot prove this to be anything more than a
coincidence. As none of us are in the habit of committing chapter and verse
to memory, it was not at all likely we should be able to point out any one
passage ; and, indeed, previous knowledge of the whereabouts of the above
verses was denied by all. The letters obtained by Mr. Davis were close to
those obtained by me.
After the trying hot season of 1888-9 the first thing that returned to us
in joyous manifestations was the raps with all their old individuality.
Other Sounds.
A peculiar whistling sound was heard by some—on one occasion coming
from behind the curtains drawn before the verandah door, and on another,
by Mrs. Z. in the garden path leading down to the gate, where she had been
seeing some friends out. I mention this as it seems to me to be rather
frequent in physical manifestations. I cannot say that I have heard it
myself. The only other objective phenomenon of the kind worth recording
is that of a note sounded in fulfilment of a promise on a closed piano, while
we were sitting at tea in the adjoining room. This was heard by Mrs. Davis
and myself, we being both favourably placed to catch the sound. The note
was a faint one, but quite audible enough to leave no doubt as to its nature
or the direction whence it came. At the time all the members of the
household were assembled round the table ; and the small adjoining room
in which the piano stood was lighted, and was wholly visible with all its
contents—at least to Mrs. Davis.
Direct Writing.
But the most striking phase of our phenomena was the rapid develop
ment in the two girls of the direct from the automatic writing. The latter
came almost immediately after the first successful sitting, and the former,
indeed, appeared about the same time on the walls and in closed books, but
not so as to fall under our direct observation. It was at a seance, held on
September 11th, 1888, Mr. Davis and his family being alone present, that a
first mark was obtained on a slate held a la mode de Slade in the shade of a
table. On September 16th, I being also present, several detached words
were written in the same manner ; and on the 23rd of the same month our
stance was an extraordinary success. C. , who was seated next to her father,
held a slate on which pencil dust had been scraped ; and it was hardly placed
in position by her when it was pushed out by an apparently external force,
and showed on its surface a lino stretching right across it. This was done
rapidly time after time ; and on my objecting that possibly the line was
caused by drawing the slate against the angle of the table, it was thencefor
Alleged Mcroements, &c. 181
ward lowered on being taken out so as to avoid all contact, and with exactly
the same result. Meanwhile A., seated at my right hand, held a slate
pencil, as if for automatic writing, but in such a manner that there was
constantly a distance of two or three millimetres between the point of the
pencil and the surface of the slate. The movement of the point was as
imperceptible as that of the minute hand of a clock ; and thus were appar
ently precipitated on to the slate, and under my own eyes, letters and
words, which not only were far superior in execution to the child's usual
hand, but would do honour to a practised writing master. C. , and more
especially A., soon began to obtain direct writing, either by holding the
slate alone, or with other persons, in whole sentences, written apparently
with fine pencil dust, which was at first preferred as being easier to manage !
Afterwards minute pieces of pencil were used ; but both with these and the
pencil dust the writing was effected silently, and very often away from the
pencil itself. If, as further experiments seem to show, the phenomenon
was a genuine one, the words found upon the slates must have been due to
some unknown process of precipitation. The influences themselves asserted
that materialised hands were formed for the purpose, though that, of course,
it is more difficult to admit. With somewhat characteristic unseasonableness
the writing sometimes came at the back of slates lying on the table while
Mrs. Davis was superintending the children's lessons, and in this case no
pencil seems to have been used.
When the power had thus reached sufficient intensity, some more
conclusive tests were tried. On one occasion some 12 or 14 pieces of
pencil were placed on the slate ; and, on holding it under the table, writings
were done in every possible direction, corresponding more or less in number
,with the pieces of pencil on the slate—and this in a time far too brief to allow
,of any fraudulent manipulation of the slate by the child herself. On another
occasion I laid a clean slate in the centre of the table, placed with my own
hand a minute piece of pencil on its upper surface, and covered it with
another slate, which was also first seen to be clean. Then all the persons
present, including the little medium A. , placed the tips of their fingers on
the upper slate, which began at once to slide backward and forward on the
lower one, but never so much as to open them for more than an inch or so.
As we were sitting in full lamp-light with all our attention concentrated on
the slates, it was impossible that anyone should have written without being
immediately detected, yet on the upper surface of the lower slate near
A.'s fingers there came writing, which was repeated several times.
Another and still stronger test was a reproduction by A. and myself
alone of an experiment I had read of in Zollner's work. I put a small piece
of pencil in the middle of the table ; then, taking a couple of clean slates, I
placed one of them over the pencil, and, with the little girl, held the other flat
against the under surface of the table, as nearly as possible under the upper
slate. In this position writing came at my request on that surface of the
lower slate which was pressed against the table ' No previous warning was
given that the experiment—a novel one to the child—was about to be tried ;
and on the occasion I took care that it should exclude all possibilities of
conscious or unconscious fraud.
After the hot season the direct writing returned, but was never sufficiently
182 F. W. H. Myers.
powerful to allow of rigorous tests. It may be added that both this and the
automatic writing were often as well individualised as were the raps.
Apparent Materialisation of Hands and Feet.
Touches were sometimes felt by the more sensitive, when at the sittings
everybody's hands were upon the table ; and the characteristic cold breeze
which usually precedes physical phenomena was frequently perceived by all
of us. One evening at a dark seance in the lower house, while I held A.'s
right hand under my left, the rest of the sitters being away from us on the
other sides of the table, I felt small fingers, said to be those of a near relative,
stroking the back of my hand. I at once inquired if Mr. Davis held A.'s
other hand in his, and he replied affirmatively. C, whose hand joined
mine on the right, was in her accustomed place just opposite me ; and the
fingers felt seemed, from their position, to belong to a person standing on
my left side. Besides this, the hand that caressed mine was too small to
belong to any of the adults present, though it might well have been that of
the influence whose name was given.
On a previous occasion on the evening of September 6th, 1888, before the.
family had moved, we had received what seemed to us an extremely good
proof of the reality of temporarily formed hands and feet—or, at least, of
simulacra of them. Mr. Davis, the two girls, and I were seated, each on one
side of a small square table, in full lamp-light. We had been obtaining,
specimens of direct writing, and had noticed that in the pencil dust strewn
on the slate there were impressions of fingers that were, some larger, and
others smaller than those of the little medium. We therefore had in the
flour box ; and I heaped flour on one of the slates, and smoothed it
carefully over. Mr. Davis then obliged his daughter, C. , to hold both her
hands in the middle of the table, and, bidding her sit perfectly still, placed
the slate upon her knees. To prevent the thwarting action of too expectant
attention I continued the reading of an American humourist, without much
success, however, in interesting either myself or the hearers in the contents
of the book. Nevertheless, after an interval we were told to examine the
slate ; and, on Mr. Davis's so doing, we found that it contained impressions
of fingers. The flour was smoothed over again ; C. resumed her previous
position, and Mr. Davis again placed the slate on her lap. We begged that, if
possible, the impression of a foot might be given as a more crucial test ; and,
after waiting for another short interval, we obtained our desire. When Mr.
Davis brought the slate into the light, we all observed on it the delicate tracing
of a naked, baby foot, such as would have been caused by lightly pressing it
against the flour. There was also the mark of a large human finger sinking
more deeply into the flour. Both impressions were perfect in their kind.
Now, none but the four persons mentioned were present in the room at the
time. All our hands were, as usual, on the table. The children's feet,
encased in laced boots, were many sizes larger than the foot that caused the
impression ; and from first to last neither of the girls had the slightest chance
of tampering with the slate. In automatic writing the impression was tri
umphantly claimed as that of the foot of a little relative of the D.'s who
had passed away in early infancy. Mrs. Davis and Mrs. Z., who had been
absent from the room during the evening, and could not, therefore, be
Alleged Movements, &c. 183
supposed to be under the influence of any collective hallucination induced by
the sitting, were then called in ; and they saw the impression as distinctly as
we did.
Clairvoyance.
I do not know whether I should attribute to clairvoyance, or consider as
an objective phenomenon, a beautiful, transparent,bluish light which was one
evening seen by all, except Mr. Davis himself, playing on his left shoulder. At
my desire it moved to the right shoulder, but seemed to have some difficulty
in staying there. Though there was no regular sitting, the room at the time
was partially darkened, but not enough to hinder us from plainly distinguish
ing the features of the persons present.
The two elder girls, and sometimes even the two younger ones, seemed
to see spirit forms clairvoyantly. Once at that marvellous tea-table I
was much struck at the simultaneousness with which the former clapped their
hands, burst into hearty laughter, and gave an identical account of some
invisible fun which was going on at the expense of their father. Again,
when we were standing on the verandah one dark night, the slow measured
bark of a dog, chained outside, attracted our notice. We saw it was gazing
upward at something which Mr. Davis and I could not perceive. The girls,
however, declared that they recognised a well-known spirit form,standing in
front of the dog ; and the bark was, indeed,expressive of much canine bewil
derment. At a later date, when the family were living at the lower house,
the youngest girl, still hardly more than a baby,called her father's attention
to somebody standing at the door. " Man, man,", she said ; but to other eyes
no man was visible ; and at last, ere she could succeed in making him seo
what to her eyes was so evident, her look changed to one of intense
astonishment, and she uttered her usual "All gone," which in her imperfect
language meant that something had disappeared. Now, her very generic
" man" was at one time applied by her to me ; and it is just possible that she
had an hallucination of my person. The phantasm of a dog, which was seen
by myself very indistinctly passing close to my knee at the same moment
that it was perceived by Mrs. Z. with all clearness, merits a passing mention.
On another occasion it was simultaneously seen by Mr. Davis and C. passing
along a passage. Such an appearance, if impinged on us by an outside
intelligence, would probably have nothing more than symbolical import, and
might mean guardianship. The simultaneous perception of the apparition by
two persons on each occasion, and the similarity, exact so far as could be
judged, of the two separate visions are certainly interesting points.
But it was at one of our later sittings, held on April 11th, 1889, that
we obtained the best phenomena of this kind. We had darkened the room
completely ; and throughout the seance a diffused light, in which the forms of
the persons seated round the table were just distinguishable, was alternated
with the most intense darkness. All saw this light, and at first we were inclined
to attribute it to the candle burning in an adjoining room, where Mrs. Davis
was putting the younger children to bed. She shortly joined us, however,
and, though all lights in the house were then extinguished, the phenomenon
continued at what seemed regular intervals ; and soon the girls declared they
saw spirit forms, which succeeded each other at a certain place at the table.
On our asking C. to describe them she did so. Besides other descriptions
184 F. W. H. Myers.
of apparitions less remarkable or verifiable, one was given of her maternal
grandfather which was considered to be exact. It seemed, indeed, to Mrs.
Davis and Mrs. Z. , who were the only ones who had known him in his earth-
life, to be complete. Mr. Davis, however, thought he had heard speak of a
sword cut which his father-in-law had received on his forehead, and he also
recollected some mention of a cut on his lip. He, therefore, asked for some
thing still more characteristic. On this, Mrs. Davis's memory reverted to a
mutilated finger of the decedent, while Mrs. Z. 's mind was a blank, as she was
unable to imagine what more could be required. The girl looked again for a few
moments, and then affirmed that she saw on the face of the apparition a
white line crossing the nose and another stretching under the left eye. This
was exact. On making after inquiries, I found that neither of the ladies
had any recollection of having mentioned this circumstance either to Mr.
Davis or the children ; and they believed it had lain latent in their memory
for many years. I examined the photographs of Mr. Z. with a magnifying
glass, but could not find in them the slightest trace of any such mark.
A daguerreotype, however, which I saw afterwards, has a very faint indi
cation of a mark on the nose, that certainly would not be noticed or
understood, unless very special attention were drawn to it, and an explana
tion were given of what it was. The seam under the eye across the cheek,
which was seen in its exact position, is given nowhere. As to the
sword cut, it had never existed except in Mr. Davis's imagination.
In concluding this brief account of our phenomena,I may say that we were
visited by no Shakespeares or Byrons. Perhaps they did not think us
congenial. The influences purporting to be busy around us were, in general,
such as would have felt the liveliest interest in the family had they been
clothed in the flesh.
I have laid some stress on the individuality of the manifestations. People
in this life are commonly recognised by their acquaintances, even after a long
absence, by persistent habits in voice, bearing, facial expression and thought,
and rarely by mere legal proofs of identity. Differentiation takes place in
our most trivial habits ; and, perhaps, no two people ring a bell,or knock at a
door in exactly the same way. The theory of a continued intelligent existence,
in which imperfect means are onlyoccasionally offered for communication with
the world that is left behind, will always seem plausible to those who, like
ourselves, have been witnesses to the marked individuality maintained for
each manifesting influence in physical phenomena, especially when, as in our
case, tricks of speech and pet names long forgotten are reproduced by
mediums who in all probability never heard of them. The differences were
evolved in the phenomena themselves, and not in the children, as would be
the case if it were a question of multiplex personality. Something, of course,
was drawn from them ; their normal personality was not always kept in the
background ; but it was generally combined with elements foreign to their
way of thinking, and sometimes with particulars which were unknown to
them. While the influences A, B, C were manifesting by raps, direct writing
or apparitions, the little mediums, as I said in the beginning, would be, to
all outward appearance, in their usual condition. Indeed, had any mental
disturbance been observed in them—even if it were only temporary—we
should have thought it high time to suspend our sittings.
Alleged Movements, &c. 185
Our supernormal experience also led us to place much more reliance on
spontaneous messages than on answers elicited by questioning. The delicate
psychic current seemed to be turned aside by too positive a frame of mind,
and to be hindered,even in the physical manifestations,by distrust or expectant
attention. We soon recognised this ; and, though we could never entirely rid
ourselves of all distrust, we may claim the merit of finally allowing the facts
to prove themselves, and of interfering with them no more than was necessary
for satisfactory observation.
The matter of the messages was often trivial, which was partially owing
to the playful tone which we adopted ourselves. Had our own remarks been
taken down at the time, I am afraid they would have been rated at no higher
value. Often, however, messages were written of moral and even religious
import, which, whatever might have been their source, had simple merits of
their own. These, of course, are nearly all of too private a nature to be
further alluded to.
The frequent reference made to distrust of the children merely signifies
that, as they were the instruments for phenomena which in their public
aspect are largely mixed with fraud, and were subject to influences not well
understood by us, we felt it to be our duty to^ourselves, and to those who
might care to examine the account of our experience, to guard jealously
against the introduction of conscious or unconscious trickery. These con
siderations led us to be ever watchful—even with the familiar members of our
family circle. Speaking after great intimacy, I will add that the character
both of C. and A. is excellent. In all the ordinary relations of life
they are truthful and affectionate children ; and I am sure that they respect
both their parents far too much to make them the victims of wilful and
persistent deception.
Alfred Alexander.
1889.
Mr. and Mrs. Davis corroborate this account as follows :—
Additional Remarks on " Account of Physical Phenomena observed
in a Family Circle. "
In his paper Professor Alexander gives so exhaustive an account of the
physical phenomena observed in our family circle that I feel I have very little
to add. The various phenomena therein described were critically observed
by us all with an earnest desire to arrive at the truth, and I have no doubt
that our extreme caution did in a great measure weaken the manifestations ;
at the same time those actually observed with such care obtained a higher
value in our estimation than more powerful ones loosely observed could have
done.
The paper professedly deals only with these physical phenomena, and lays
but little stress upon the intelligence manifested by their means ; yet, as it
touches upon the subject of the individuality of tilts, raps, and writing—
automatic and direct—I may,perhaps,be permitted to refer to this part of the
subject. When this individuality was forced upon our notice I made out a
list of the various sounds which were given us as the distinctive "signals " of
the communicating intelligences. Upon one of these "signals" being rapped
or tilted out, the name corresponding thereto was asked for, and, by means of
186 F. W. H. Myers.
the alphabet, spelled out ; and for a long time it was only upon reference to
our list that we were able to verify their accuracy. Among scores of such
instances no error was ever detected. The same consistent identity was also
noticeable in the writings. The manifesting intelligences, A, B, C, &c. ,
would each assume a distinctive handwriting ; that assumed by A was never
signed by other than A, or that assumed by B, by other than B.
Before the advent of genuine raps I had to check a rather absurd tendency
in the children to answer questions by tapping with their pencils on the
slates. This, however, was literally above board.
In reference to the raps mentioned as having occurred in my daughter's
bedroom I will state that my object in making this experiment was by a
crucial examination to satisfy myself that those heard on other occasions
were not due to conscious or unconscious simulation. After A. had retired
for the night and was asleep,1 and without mentioning my intention to anyone,
I took C. into the room, and together we quietly sat on the bedside. After
waiting,perhaps five minutes, faint rappings were heard upon the floor. I then
removed my shoes—no alteration. C. removed hers—raps much louder,
so loud as to awaken A. This led me to infer that by closer bodily contact
with the floor better conditions were obtained. I, therefore, made A.
assume such a position in bed that she was entirely isolated from possible
contact with the bedstead—arms outside clothes, and whole body perfectly
quiet and under my direct observation—while C. and I seated ourselves
on the floor, her feet resting on my knees, her two hands secured in mine.
Under these conditions thundering blows, causing the whole room to vibrate,
were obtained, answering questions and rapping out an intelligent message.
There was no candle or lamp alight in the room ; but the ventilating aperture
over the door, which was a foot deep and of the same width as the door,
admitted sufficient light from the adjoining sitting-room to render everything
perfectly visible.
I can further corroborate all the details given respecting the impression
of the little foot obtained at the sitting of September 6th ; but I think it ,
important to add that slight tracings of the skin itself were perceptible on
the flour.
From the time that decided intelligence was recognisable in connection
with the phenomena, persistent efforts were made by us to obtain positive
proofs of identity, with but meagre success ; nevertheless, tricks of speech,
mannerisms, &c, were frequently to be observed in the communications,
both in automatic and direct writing, which in our opinion went far to prove
that the writing really emanated from the person whose signature it bore.
To me, who have a practical knowledge of telegraphy, one of the strongest
proofs in favour of the genuineness of the raps was the obtaining by their
means on the floor and on the table the repetition of Morse signals, so
perfectly produced that they reflected back my own "sending." Those on
the floor came in the dark, whereas those on the table were dealt in heavy
blows under a strong light. Now, in telegraphy, whatever the instrument
used, every operator has a decidedly characteristic style of working, just as
1 In a subsequent letter Mr. Davis says that he was careful to satisfy himself on
this point.
Alleged Movements, &c. 187
every writer has his own style of handwriting ; and a good operator at one
end of a line to which he is accustomed can recognise his fellow operator at
the distant station simply by his "sending." It is, indeed, as difficult for
one operator to imitate another's style, as it is for one writer to imitate
another's handwriting.
Admitting the possibility of spirit intercourse, those united by blood or
by intimate friendship would from our experience appear to have greater
facility in communicating. In September, 1888, Mrs. Z. had the following
experience. Her bedroom opened directly into the dining-room, in which a
lamp was kept burning all night. Her bedroom door, in common with others,
always remained open. She had been to sleep, and between two and three
o'clock from some unexplained cause was awakened. While lying still and
endeavouring to resume her sleep, she suddenly saw her deceased husband
come in at the door, and stand at her bedside. He appeared dressed in blue
serge—a suit he used to wear—and carrying a handkerchief in the left hand—
a frequent habit of his. He was as clearly seen as if in broad daylight. His
right hand was placed in Mrs. Z.'s ; some words were spoken, to which
she replied, and the apparition disappeared. Thereupon she was much
agitated. The clock struck three immediately after the disappearance. In
the morning the words spoken had escaped her memory ; but C. recalled
them to her by automatic writing. They were, " I tried hard to make you see
me, and I have succeeded at last." To which she replied, "Oh, Dick, dear,
how you startled me ! " which Mrs. Z. recognised to be the exact words.
This and the dog were the only apparitions ever seen by her. The children
also testified to the great distinctness of the various forms seen by them
clairvoyantly.
A very near relation of ours living in England had for some time been in
a precarious state of health. The decay caused by old age and the hardships
he had suffered in his country's service might well lead us to suppose that he
would not be much longer spared to us. We did not, however, apprehend im
mediate dissolution ; nevertheless, he was described in direct writing as being
halfon the other side, and his almost immediate death was foretold. Character
istically enough our leading questions—for we were then new to the subject
—elicited a premature announcement of his decease. Yet, in fact, he did pass
over in about ten weeks' time after the prediction ; and, although the exact
date of his death was not given, his wife, who had gone before him, was absent
at the time from our sittings, and was said by the other influences to be en
gaged elsewhere. When Mrs. Z. and I received the news, we communicated
it to my wife only, and, warned by former experience, refrained from again
suggesting anything to guide the mediums, but waited patiently for a spon
taneous test. It came. Shortly afterwards—a fortnight before mail news
confirmed the telegraphic notice—we obtained an alphabetic message by the
striking of a slate against tlie table, the slate being held by C. and Professor
Alexander. The words were " F is rising," and they were supposed to
be given by the hitherto absent influence, who now once more returned to
our circle. Admitting again the possibility of spirit intercourse, these
incidents seem to be highly suggestive.
An instructive instance of how mediums might be influenced by outside
intelligence is the following. Much automatic writing over the signature of
188 F. W. H. Myers.
a person not directly connected with us was received. Upon coming to Eng
land, it was, through a mediumistic relative of this person, declared that she
had endeavoured to influence, and communicate with our circle in South
America, but did not know if she had succeeded. —T. H. Davis.
I have read the above accounts and certify to their truth.—S. A. Davis.
1889.
Professor Alexander sends us the following corroboration from the "Mr.
X." of the above narrative :—,
Mr. X., having been requested to write down his recollections and im
pressions of the sittings at which he was present, has complied in the follow
ing statement addressed to me. He desires to remain incognito in the
printed accounts, but his real name and address have been given to Mr.
Myers.
"Your account of psychical phenomena obtained in Mr. D.'s circle
reached me on 17th inst. I have carefully read it through, and do nob
hesitate for a moment to confirm every statement contained in it respecting
facts which were witnessed at times when I was present.
"As I took no notes whatever, I must trust to my memory for the brief
account of my own observations which I am about to give you.
"Raps.
" One evening in the month of October, 1888, after we had been sitting,
Mr. D., Mrs. D., C. D., A. D., and I went into the children's bedroom.
C. D., A. D., and I were seated on the bed (feet on the bed), and Mr. D.
on a chair close to the bed. As to Mrs. D. 's whereabouts, I cannot quite
remember it. The room was in total darkness. We had not been seated
many minutes when we heard raps, which seemed to increase' in strength ;
and at times such blows were given on the floor as to make one think that
someone was using a mallet.
"As far as I recollect, this experiment was tried in consequence of similar
results having been obtained on a previous occasion, when I was not present.
On the same occasion lights were seen by Mrs. D. and the children. On
another occasion, later on in the same year, I was present at a sitting when
raps were reproduced on the floor, corresponding to silent movements of Mr.
D. 's finger, the room being in total darkness. I have also heard the Morse
alphabet tapped out on the table by Mr. D., and the same signals reproduced
in different parts of the room. Several times I have heard raps on the case
ment of the window, close to which I was sitting, no one else being near
enough to touch it.
"Direct Writing. r
' 'I have seen direct writing many times ; but on one occasion in particular,
at the close of our sitting, A. D. held the slate under the table with from
20 to 25 small pieces of pencil on it. In the space of about half a minute, I
should think, she drew the slate out, and we found ' good-night ' written
more or less the same number of times as there were pieces of pencil—and
all in different handwritings. A. D. was holding the slate in one hand, her
other hand was on the table joined to those of the other sitters.
Alleged Movements, &c. 189
"I regret that I cannot give you a more detailed account of my experience.
All that I have stated is well stamped on my memory ; and I have refrained
from making any statement that I am not quite clear about.
" Rio de Janeiro. "X."
"February 19th, 1890.
Group A. Case XL (S. 9.)
The following case is of a surprising character, but it comes to us on very
good authority. Mr. 0 , the writer of the narrative, a gentleman engaged in
important business (and whose name may be given to inquirers), is in every
way an excellent witness. His account of the facts, although written in its
present form some six years after the occurrences, was compiled from notes
taken at the time. Mr. C. mentioned the facts shortly after they occurred to
the Rev. Edward White, who communicated them to Professor Barrett, and
Professor Barrett then interviewed Mr. C. on the subject. I also know Mr. 0.,
and have seen Mrs. C. and Mr. H. Mrs. C. gave me verbal confirmation of her
husband's account. To Mr. H. the subject is still so painful that he cannot
be approached upon it. I may add that this is almost the only case within
my knowledge where seances have been followed by any injury beyond some
little temporary fatigue and excitement. Mr. H. is still a strong and robust
man, and exercises his profession as usual, but his nerves have not recovered
from the shock which these strange phenomena inflicted on them. Mr. C.
had lost sight of Miss A. before we obtained his account.
Mr. C.'s Account.
Some eight years ago I had a few experimental sittings in my own house
with a few friends, obtaining the usual results, table turning, lifting, raps,
&c. This decided me upon trying to thoroughly investigate the matter,
and I had a number of seances with friends, and also with professional
mediums. These were held in various places and under a variety of
conditions, the results being as follow :—
I was firmly convinced that the results obtained were apart from any
direct action of the medium, who had no control whatever over the nature
of the manifestations, or the electrical or other conditions required to pro
duce them.
I was not, however, convinced of the supernatural character of the
manifestations, and felt that it was impossible to thoroughly establish my
conviction as to the action of the medium unless I obtained similar, results
in my own circle, without the presence of any professional medium, and
under conditions rendering imposture impossible. Such an opportunity
offered six years ago. I was staying at Lowestoft with my wife, a young
lady, and a gentleman, an old and intimate friend. We decided upon trying
what results we could obtain.
All these, especially my wife, were unbelievers, who ridiculed the whole
thing.
We sat in a drawing-room, on the first floor, with the door locked, and
the key in my pocket. We turned down the gas, but it was a full moon,
shining full upon the windows, and the whole room was light enough for us to
190 F. W. H. Myers.
see one another, and in fact everything that was around and in the room.
The table was an oblong, heavy, walnut one. I will call my friend F. and
the young lady A.
First evening.—The usual manifestations took place. Table moved about
the room ; a match-box was brought from the other end of the room.
Communication was held by raps, I calling out the alphabet, and many
questions answered. F. was declared to be a medium, other mediums
declared doubtful. The only message given, except in reply to questions
put, was, " C, I'm in love ! "
Second evening. —The above manifestations were repeated, but answers
fuller and more coherent. Lights were visible floating about the room,
especially over the heads of my wife and F. F. 's name was spelt, my wife's
name was spelt, and she was declared to be a medium. F. complained
much of being touched, his hair pulled, clothes dragged, &c, and during the
whole of our seances this was constantly the case. He said he felt " cold
hands on him." Incidentally I may observe that during all these mani
festations and afterwards, except when our circle was forcibly broken, we
never ceased to hold hands tightly, not merely lay them on the table, as is
often the case.
A. was touched on the face and hands. F. asks for a book to be brought,
which was instantly done, one from another part of the room being thrown
on to the table before him. I ask for further proof. F. 's chair is suddenly
dragged from under him, his foot laid hold of, and he is thrown down on the
floor, still holding my wife's hand, but without the slightest noise or injury.
On turning up the gas we find him in a trance, the book balanced in an
impossible position (so far as gravitation goes) upon his knee. His watch
and a ring (which latter was on a finger of the hand my wife still held) were
on a sofa at the other end of the room, a large one ; a small key fastened
upon the swivel of his watch chain had disappeared. After a few minutes
he recovered, I having lifted him on to a sofa, thought he had been asleep,
felt quite well, and was unconscious of what had taken place, or that he had
been on the floor. When we sat again a message came, " I love F." On
asking who, the reply was " Katie." This so annoyed him that we discon
tinued sitting. Lights were frequently appearing all through the evening,
and a broad collar of flame was round my wife's neck at one time.
Third evening. —I placed a paper speaking tube on the table, but "they"
refused to use it. My wife asks for a book ; a French work was brought to
her from under a pile of other books in the room. She is a very fine French
scholar. She asks to have F.'s watch key, lost the night before, returned.
It was at once thrown on to the table before her. A. is touched a good deal.
The tube is floated about the room, and then thrown down on the table.
In consequence of the annoyances, pinches, &c, F. asks to sit out. He goes
into a recess in a bay window, within sight of us all, sitting in a wicker
chair, which creaks loudly at the slightest motion, and smoking. We then
continue. My wife is violently shaken and agitated ; a figure appears, a
woman in dark clothes, gliding gently from behind me. She passes A.,
takes hold of F.'s chair (left by the table), moves it out of the way, and,
gliding round the table, approaches my wife, who, on feeling the hands of
the figure upon her, screams, and I turn up the gas. We all three saw the
Alleged Movements, &c. 191
figure distinctly, and can also swear that F. remained in the chair looking
out of the window. He did not see it ; a rustling noise accompanied its
progress.
F. rejoined the circle. By my request he asked for flowers for the
ladies. Immediately two bunches of cut hot-house flowers, double stocks,
&c. (it being October), were placed in front of them.
F. sat with his feet round the legs of his chair to prevent its being drawn
away, and wore Wellington boots. He called out, " They are taking my coat
off," was thrown down, my wife holding his hand tightly. His coat was off,
his boots were on a sofa 10 yards away, his handkerchief tied in a knot, and
in another place.
We sit again and I ask for something from home, but am refused. F.
asks for something from home, becomes violently agitated, is thrown into a
trance, and a photograph of a young lady is on the table in front of him.
My wife takes it up, and on his recovery, which took some 15 minutes or so,
shows it him. He puts it into his pocket, bursts into tears, and says, " I
would not have had that happen for anything."
The photo was the only copy existing of a portrait of a young lady he was
once engaged to. It was in an album in a drawer with two locks over it in
his house at Bayswater. On our return to town it had disappeared, and his
wife, being quite ignorant of our having had seances, told us that at that
very hour a fearful crash occurred in his bedroom, and brought everyone in
the house up to inquire the cause.
My wife asked him to show her the photo, when, to his dismay, it had
disappeared from his pocket. A number of other minor manifestations
occurred of which I took no notice, and all through the seances, whenever
anything happened, F. became violently agitated. We decided not to sit
again, but he was so upset the next day at losing the photo, that my wife
suggested sitting once more to try and recover it.
Fourth evening.—My head was violently struck as if by a sofa pillow
thrown or some soft substance. An object passed over our hands and across
the table, feeling soft like feathers. F. asks for fruit and flowers ; more
flowers are brought and apples, the only fruit of the season, which we had
not in the house. A. asks for something of hers. Her pocket-book is
brought from another table.
My wife asks for something. F. is thrown down instantly, und on the
table is the photo, lost the night before.
Instead of recovering quickly, F. has alternate fits of unconsciousness
and raving delirium, which last for five hours. He is then sensible, but very
weak. The next day he begged my wife to destroy the photo, which they
burned in our presence. F. had a mild attack of brain fever.
On our return my house was subject to noises, knockings, &c, constantly,
and is still at times. My wife has seen figures, and the tricks constantly
played upon her were most annoying.
Often I have seen an article of jewellery disappear as soon as she has
placed it upon the table, and be found afterwards in most unaccountable
places. We were touched, sprinkled with water in the night, and it was
only when we gave up the entire subject that the annoyance ceased. Even
192 F. W. H. Myers.
Lately a singular noise has followed me to Bournemouth, Hastings, and to a
friend's house at Camden Town. F. 's nervous system is shattered.
During these seances there was no possibility of imposture, and the
people concerned were all thoroughly reliable and incapable of it. I have
omitted a great deal of the detail of our seances, giving you merely the
main facts.
November 27th, 1876.
December 2nd, 1876.
In a subsequent letter Mr. C. wrote to Professor Barrett :—
F. is thoroughly reliable, a singularly sensitive man, but straightforward,
honest, moral, and quite incapable of trickery or deceit. A. is a timid young
girl. I would answer for both of them. We were staying in apartments.
The only other people in the house were A.'s father and mother in
the dining-rooms, old friends, and they were quite ignorant of what took
place above. I myself locked the door, pocketing the key, on each
occasion.
Not the least remarkable thing is the extraordinary influence exerted over
F. by both my wife and myself, especially the former. When his attacks
come on he cannot sleep at night, and the only cure for them is sleep. If
he lies down on a sofa, it is sufficient for my wife to sit beside him to
send him to sleep at once.
Probably mesmerism might do him good. It would not do for you to see
him, however. For five years the subject of Spiritualism has not been men
tioned to him ; any casual allusion to it by a stranger even causes him
violent agitation, and brings on these attacks.
My wife also has often told me on going home, "You were talking upon
the forbidden subject at such an hour to-day," which was true, although she
could have no means of knowing except by her nervous sensations.
In a letter in Light, January 20th, 1883, Mr. C. again mentions some of
these facts. And, finally, in a letter to myself he answers some further
questions.
April 2bth, 1889.
Regarding your various questions, I will take them seriatim,.
1. F. was in splendid health previous to our seances ; he had spent about
a fortnight with us, he and I riding together daily, and had not the least
symptom of approaching illness. He was perfectly conscious of all his
actions at the time, and during our seances conversed in the usual way. He
expressed surprise at the results, but was calm, collected, rather jocular
during the first two evenings, and showed no sign of brain excitement,
except by his trances and bewilderment for a minute or two after his sudden
recovery from them. The theory of his having produced the phenomena,
except possibly as an unconscious instrument, is in my opinion quite
untenable. 1 had then known him intimately for 10 years, and his habits,
his very high character, honourable and chivalric to a degree, preclude
possibility of trickery, nor had he any experience which could qualify him
for such performance.
2. Conditions as to light. Our gas was turned low, but there was
sufficient light for us to see distinctly one another and every object in the
Alleged Movements, &c. 193
room. In addition it was full moon, and her light alone streaming in through
two windows would have been enough. We held hands firmly throughout
the seances.
3. Our seance when the photo came took place about 10 to 11 p.m. I
never left Mr. F. until 3 a.m. By afternoon delivery next day came
his wife's letter describing the crash, which she said was heard next door.
She could not be questioned about it, as she knew nothing about our seances,
and on our return to London the subject was tabooed by order of the
doctor, the slightest allusion to it exciting F . fearfully.
4. I never heard of any further phenomena occurring to Mrs. F.
5. On our return home my wife and I were annoyed constantly in various
ways. Raps and noises were incessant. Doors thrown open again and
again when carefully closed, and in some instances locked. Our servants
also complained of the same annoyances ; sounds as of a drum or a horn
close to us in the night. On one occasion, in bed with door locked, we were
sprinkled with water from my bath. Various small articles belonging to my
wife disappeared, and were found afterwards in different places, in one
instance in a drawer locked previously. We were touched on the arm by
invisible hands. When we avoided all reference to the subject, these annoy
ances gradually ceased.
6. The only clue to the personality of the figure is, that previously when
asked with whom we were communicating the reply was "Katie." Last year
when I asked the same question in Adelaide, the answer was " Kate Hope."
My experiences with professional mediums were much of the same character
throughout, only I found them playing tricks, though many results were
undoubtedly beyond their control.
On all occasions, both at seances and privately, immediately before and
during any manifestation, we all felt a sudden chill, like either a wave of
intensely oold air passing, or a rapid decrease of temperature. Also a current
of electricity appeared to pass through our circle, at times so powerful as to
make our arms quiver, as if we were holding the handles of a mild battery.
It will be observed that Mr. C. believes Mr. H. to have been in normal
health until upset by the seances. It is, however, possible that some
cerebral trouble may have been already impending, of which Mr. C. saw no
indication,—and that Mr. H. may have been in an abnormal state during the
seances, and have performed acts of which he was not fully conscious. This
view is pro tanto supported by the very fact of the illness, for which the
seances seem to supply no adequate cause. On the other hand, it would not
be easy to explain on this hypothesis all the phenomena which Mr. C;
records.
Group A. Case XII. (S. 10.)
The communication here translated was sent by Dr. X. C. Dariex to
Professor Richet, who has discussed the phenomena in conversation with
Dr. Dariex, and has forwarded the case to us as coming from trustworthy
observers.
Dr. Dariex has allowed me to see the original of the Report and signatures.
0
194 F. W. H. Myers.
Dr. Dariex's Account.
On Friday, the 30th of November, having some friends with me, one of
whom was a medical man, we occupied ourselves, for a couple of hours after
dinner, with some experiments in table-tilting in my study. It was the first
time that seances of this nature had taken place in my rooms. The follow
ing morning I was not a little surprised when my servant, an honest Bre-
tonne, maintained that between half-past three and four o'clock a.m. she had
distinctly heard sounds of alternating muffled footsteps and little raps on the
furniture, proceeding from my study, which was next the room in which she
slept. I imagined that she had localised in my study sounds which had
taken place above, in a flat identical with my own, and only occupied at
night by M.D., a lawyer, and his wife. Owing to the persistence with which
my servant affirmed that the noises proceeded from my study and from no
where else, I inquired the same day of M.D. whether during the night, after
three o'clock, anyone had been walking about and knocking the furniture in
his study, his drawing-room, or his dining-room. He replied that he and
Madame D. had retired about midnight, and that nobody could have been
walking or knocking in his rooms at that time.
In spite of having frequently read accounts of similar occurrences, I did
not at once decide that the house was haunted (as did my servant, a native
of the land of legends) ; but supposed this to be a case of hallucination,
although the hypothesis did not satisfy me. In fact, why should this girl, who
had previously had no hallucinations, experience them just on this night
when we had been making experiments in table-tilting—a science of which
she had never heard, and which could not have influenced her imagination,
as she did not even know of its existence ? Moreover, when I asked her
whether the sound of the carriages interfered with what she believed she
heard, she replied in the affirmative. This does not appear to me to support
the hypothesis of hallucination, which would not have been temporarily
destroyed by the rumbling of the carriages passing from time to time.
It points rather to the existence of a real noise, outside the person who
perceived it.
The phenomena were again produced on three occasions : on the 14th and
21st of December, and on the 4th of January,—always on a Friday, and
always between half-past three and four o'clock in the morning, and lasting
for about half an hour.
The table, when consulted, invariably said that the sounds were produced
by Madame D., who had been dead several months. In spite of my doubts
as to the existence of spirits, and consequently as to the reality of their com
munications, I asked Madame D. , one evening when her spirit was said to be
present, to produce something more tangible than the sounds which only the
servant could hear, my room being too far removed from where they took
place. I begged her to turn over a chair. For some time I had had a great
desire to witness this phenomenon, and for eight or ten days had every
evening placed a chair in my study, so inclined that the slightest effort would
make it fall. It is important to notice this desire : it shows that, contrary
to my wish, the act that I had asked for was not yet produced. Madame D.
promised to accede to my request and approved my plan of arranging a chair
in such a way as to facilitate its overthrow. It was on a Friday, the 11th of
Alleged Movements, &c. 195
January, 1889, that I made my request. As the sounds had hitherto always
taken place during the night of Friday, I asked Madame D. whether she
could satisfy my curiosity that same night. She replied that she could. The
following morning all the chairs were upright, as I had placed them the
evening before, including the one whose stability I had so greatly decreased.
From this I concluded, a little hastily, that nothing would happen, and that
the communication of the preceding evening was only the reflection of my own
thought. I also made up my mind not to ask my table anything more. But
to satisfy my conscience, that evening I again placed a chair in the manner I
was accustomed to do. What was my surprise the following morning, to find
the chair upon which I had been sitting drawing till 11 o'clock at night, thrown
over on its left side in front of my bookshelves ! That which I had prepared
by leaning one of its bars against the key of the drawers of my writing-table,
was just as I had left it. That same night, between half-past two and three
o'clock, besides the falling of the chair, which had greatly alarmed her, my
servant had heard little raps on the furniture, raps which this time were not
alternated with muffled foptsteps. This took place in the night between
Saturday the 12th and Sunday the 13th of January. Four days later, during
the night of the 16th, the prepared chair in its turn was overthrown. On
this occasion the servant heard nothing. During the night of Saturday, the
19th of January, no chair was thrown down, but between half-past two and
three my servant heard the usual raps alternating with muffled footsteps.
On the 21st of January, on coming home a little before midnight, I
experienced some trouble in opening the door of my room, which I had care
fully locked before going out : a chair overturned against the door proved to
be the obstacle. On the 23rd of January, before going out at eight o'clock,
I locked my study, and sealed all the entrances : on returning at ten
minutes past twelve, I found the seals in perfect condition, and in this room,
which nobody could have entered, a chair had fallen on its back. ' The
servant had not heard the noise of the fall ; she was asleep when it was
produced ; but the same night, a little after three o'clock, she heard a noise
of another sort. Three hard strokes had been violently given on the panel
of the door leading to the drawing-room : the first, being isolated and the
least violent, had not attracted her attention ; she had taken it for an
ordinary sound, and had not attempted to discover its cause ; the two others,
more violent and in succession, had frightened her. These noises, it
appeared, resembled those which I was able to make the next day, by
violently rapping on the panel of the door, with the lower end of my fingers
and my fist well closed. Finally, on the 24th, at a quarter to one, in spite of
my room being locked and sealed as on the previous night, I found not only
one but two chairs overthrown. I could no longer doubt the reality of the
fact ; it was evident to me that chairs were displaced in my room during the
night, by a mysterious force. I say mysterious, because the series of experi
ments which I had been able to make with the assistance of two mediums of
my acquaintance, had produced contradictory results, and had not satisfied
me to the point of admitting that it was really Madame D. who thus pro
duced these strange phenomena as she had promised me. I decided to verify
this overthrowing of chairs by others than myself, who should take all the
precautions they desired to satisfy themselves ; but before inviting them,
0 2
196 F. W. H. Myers.
although I was not convinced of the existence of spirits, I wished to ask
Madame D. whether she could again produce the phenomena which I wished
to have investigated. In a communication which took place on the 25th of
January, she assured me that the experiments would succeed, and in reply to
my question, added, that without being certain, she hoped to produce the
phenomena after a delay of three days. The investigations commenced on
the 26th of January, and succeeded completely, as is shown in the report,
and it was on the third day, to their great astonishment, that the investi
gators found two chairs overturned. Indeed they had been confident that
on account of the precautions taken (precautions which excluded the
hypothesis of fraud) nothing would take place, and that if I had not been
hallucinated, I had been duped. On the 4th of February, in the morning,
two chairs were again found overturned, and those who had lent me
their assistance declared themselves sufficiently convinced of the reality of
the fact. I wished to push my investigations still farther, and anxious to hear
or even to see something, I slept for three weeks in the room where all this
had taken place. I heard nothing, I saw nothing ; everything had suddenly
ceased, to the great disappointment of myself, and the great satisfaction of
my servant, who was glad no longer to hear the noises which so frightened
her.
Report op the Occurrences at Dr. Dariex's
From the 26th of January to the 4th of February, 1889.
The undersigned certify to the accuracy of the facts which follow :—
Dr. Barbillion, M.D. of Paris, formerly medical officer in the hospitals,
16, Quai d'Orleans, Paris.
Besombes, Paul, surveyor of bridges and highways, 7, Rue Boutarel,
Paris.
Dr. Meneault, Johan, M.D. of Paris, formerly medical officer at the
Marine Hospital, Berck-sur-Mer, 51, Rue Monge.
Morin, Louis, apothecary of the first class, 9, Rue du Pont-Louis-
Philippe.
Dr. Dariex, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris, having believed himself able to
state that strange phenomena occurred in his study during the night, begged
the persons mentioned above to verify the observations he had already made,
as to the existence of such phenomena. The question, according to Dr.
Dariex, concerned the turning-over of certain chairs in his study, which had
taken place on several occasions, when precautions had been taken to exclude
trickery. It appeared impossible that any living being should have been able
to enter the room, the doors and windows having been carefully closed and
sealed. For 10 days, from the 26th of January to the 4th of February, the
undersigned had met regularly at Dr. Dariex's, in the evening at eight o'clock,
and in the morning at half-past eight ; sometimes all were present, sometimes
one or more failed. Dr. Barbillion has not missed a single meeting, and has
been able to be present at the whole series. Dr. Dariex's study is on the
first floor of No. 6, Rue du Bellay, at the corner of that steet and of the Rue
St. Louis-en-l'Isle. It is lighted by two windows which look on to the street,
and communicates with the other rooms of the flat by two doors : one opening
inwards to the drawing-room, the other communicating with the dining-room
Alleged Movements, &c. 197
and opening inwards to the study. The accompanying plan explains the
arrangement. The furniture consists of a bookcase, a writing-table, an
ordinary table, an armchair, and three other chairs. There is no cupboard in
the room. After having carefully examined the windows and doors, as well
as the different pieces of furniture, the walls and the floor, the undersigned
were of opinion that nothing could bring about the overthrow or displacement
of the furniture or other objects, by means of mechanism, strings, &c, or by
any other means ; that it was equally impossible for anyone to conceal him
self in the room, or to get in after the closing and sealing of windows and
doors. Under these circumstances, the following precautions were scrupulously
taken every evening. The window shutters were closed ; the windows shut
and seals placed on the bars near the latch. The door of communication
with the drawing-room locked on the study side. The key was kept in the
lock by means of a ribbon sealed at both ends ; seals were placed on the
door, and a band was fixed by one end to the door itself and by the other to
the adjoining wall. During the whole time of our investigations, this door
remained firmly closed. The only remaining opening was the door between
the study and the dining-room. The chairs in the study then being placed
according to an arranged plan, but not always exactly in the same place, we
left the room, Dr. Dariex the first, and each one giving a last look from the
dining-room to make sure that the chairs were upright and in position ; then
Dr. Barbillion locked the door, and took the key. Seals were placed, and a
band fastened to the keyhole ; seven or eight places were impressed with M.
Morin's seal, who kept it, and carried it away with him. The form and
position of the seals were carefully noted. These precautions having been
regularly and rigorously taken every evening at eight o'clock, we met again
the next morning at half-past eight to remove the seals. This was always
preceded by a minute examination of both them and the lock.
During the 10 days of investigation, this is what has been verified.
1. Night of Saturday, 26th Jan. ... Nothing.
2.
3.
Sunday, 27th
Monday, 28th
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Tuesday, 29th ,,
Wednesday, 30th , ,
Thursday, 31st ,,
Friday, 1st Feb.
Saturday, 2nd ,,
Sunday, 3rd ,,
Monday, 4th „
Two chairs are overturned ; one
placed near the bookcase has
fallen on its left side ; the other
placed near the sofa, is turned
on its back in the direction of
the window.
Nothing.
Two chairs are overturned ; one
placed near to the table is on its
left side, towards the sofa, the
other placed near the armchair,
has fallen on its back in the
direction of the window.
198 F. W. H. Myers.
In the presence of these facts ; of the precautions taken by us to exclude
all trickery ; of the care that we took in placing the seals, and in examining
the same, we are convinced :— ,
1. That no one could have remained in the room after we had left it.
2. That no one could have entered it during the night.
And we are led to conclude :—
That during the night, in the interval of 10 days, in the centre of a com
pletely closed room, into which no one could have entered, chairs were over
turned contrary to our expectation and prevision. That this manifestation of
an apparently mysterious force, being produced outside ordinary conditions,
does not seem referable to an ordinary explanation ; and without wishing
to prejudicate the intimate nature of this force, or to draw positive con
clusions, we are inclined to consider the phenomena to be of a psychical
order, analogous to those which have been described and verified by a certain
number of investigators.
With this well-observed and well-attested case I must close the first
instalment of this Report. Some further narratives, and some comments
on the evidence in general, are reserved for a subsequent paper. In the
meantime it is earnestly to be hoped that the publication of these cases
may lead to fresh experiment. It must always be remembered that
the evidence thus far obtained on all these topics is the outcome of
scattered, desultory experiments, often undertaken with no scientific
purpose, and recorded with insufficient care. What may be achieved
when the systematic attention of careful observers is directed to these
questions, it is at present impossible to say.
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 199
II.
EXPERIMENTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE.
By Dr. Alfred Backman, of Kalmar, Sweden.
The experiments to be recorded below do not claim to be con
sidered strictly scientific, but I describe them simply as I have made
them, in the hope that others may be incited to carry out similar
attempts in a more systematic and scientific manner than my practical
occupations have given me time for. It is at the request of some
prominent persons in this and other countries that I publish my
observations on the reality and nature of clairvoyance, and I am
further induced to do so by the publication of similar experiments
made by others.
Before relating specific instances of clairvoyance I should like to
lay before the reader some general observations that I have made.
In the first place, I have found that, unless I have been un
usually fortunate in meeting with clairvoyants, they are not so rare
as is generally supposed. On the contrary, a great number of persons
capable of being hypnotised have clairvoyant faculties. Hitherto I
have experimented only with Swedes, but I believe there is as little
difference in this respect between different nations as between different
sexes, ages, and constitutions. My youngest clairvoyant subject was a
girl of 14 years old, small and immature, my oldest a man of 66 years of
age. The characters of my subjects have also varied very much, and so
has the depth of the hypnotic state in which the phenomena occurred.
This latter fact led me to the discovery that it was not only unnecessary
for them to reach the deeper stages, but even unnecessary that they
should be hypnotised at all. Sometimes, therefore, I have not hypno
tised my subjects, and I have almost always allowed them to retain the
memory of the sleep and of everything that has taken place in it ; and,
contrary to the assertion of Du Prel and others, the subject has never
experienced any inconvenience from this. The result of it has been
that, on waking, he has remembered a number of circumstances per
ceived during the clairvoyant state, but not mentioned then. Indeed,
it seems to me natural that the subject, on awaking and recovering the
complete use of his intellect, should be better able to co-ordinate the
impressions received during sleep, and so produce a more satisfactory
result.
I have never refused to admit that some descriptions given by the
200 Dr. Alfred Backmun.
somnambulist, especially such as are familiar to any person present,
could be reasonably put down to thought-transference ; but though I
recognise to the full the possible extension and great importance of
this faculty, still for many reasons I hold that apparent clairvoyance
should very seldom be explained in this manner, even when the things
stated by the somnambulist are known to one or more of the persons
present. But at the very least such experiments afford strong evidence
of the reality of thought-transference, and that is undoubtedly an
important thing.
My experiments have been carried out in various ways. I have
generally hypnotised my subjects by the Nancy method, and after they
had been asleep for some minutes I would order them to go to such
and such a place and find such and such a person, after which I would
ask them questions. On awaking, the subjects would again be asked
to describe their experiences during the sleep. I sometimes suggested
a " guide " to the subject, who then imagined himself to be getting
information from the " guide."1 Twice (without having at that time
heard of such a thing being done elsewhere) I made the subject see
things quite unknown both to her and to me in a crystal (crystal-
gazing), when she was in an apparently normal condition. Finally, I
sometimes left the subject entirely uninfluenced, putting questions
without any preliminary process whatever.
Most of my attempts having been made merely to amuse friends
and persons who were interested, notes were not generally taken nor
corroborative evidence obtained. The presence of witnesses, some of
whom have allowed their names to be published, is a guarantee for the
truthfulness of the accounts. It will also be seen by the character of
the experiments that there could never have been any question of
fraud on the part of the subjects or of any other person, and that it
could not have profited anyone in any case whatever. Further, the
experiments have been made with different subjects and different
operators, and sometimes in my own absence.
The first time I ever tried an experiment to test the reality of
clairvoyance was with a little girl of 14 years old, Anna Samuelsson,
the daughter of a workman. I had treated her for a grave organic
disease of the heart (insufficiency of the mitral valves) with a most happy
1 To illustrate his use of the word "Guide," Dr. Backman writes: 'Tor instance,
in the case of the murder of December 22nd, ]888 (see p. 218, below), I asked Alma
to call up Jack the Ripper's last victim (whom she named Kate), and ask her when
he would commit his next crime. She imagined that she saw a very pretty young
woman in a ball-dress, who told her that it would be on the 22nd of next December,
&c. Aimj did not speak out loud, and the persons present observed nothing unusual.
I have thus made her ask for information from persons either dead or living, known or
unknown."
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 201
result, which still continues after two and a-half years. I had made
several experiments in thought-transference with her, in which she
told several times running what numbers, words, &c, a person present
had written on a folded paper, which neither she nor I saw. When
awake she also saw things that were asked me in writing, I, of course,
not helping her either by word or gesture.
Once, when she and some other patients were hypnotised at the
camp of the regiment of Kalmar, about 13 miles from the town of
Kalmar where I live, I asked her to " go to Kalmar." On my asking
if she were there, she answered "yes"; and little by little she described
how she saw a great town, where there were two big buildings, one
having several steeples (towers) [the church and the castle] ; the
house where I lived was a yellow house two stories high, and I lived
on the first floor. She then entered the apartments, passed the lobby
and one room, and then came to another room where she admired " so
many beautiful pictures, especially one which was so large." She then
entered a third room and was greatly astonished at seeing things hanging
on the walls; she had never seen any such things hanging on walls; they
were probably made of wood. [A great quantity of old china hangs
on the walls.] In this room she saw a lady, whom I recognised from
her description as my wife, and a little boy ; but there was something
strange about him, she saw him double. [A pair of twins, both boys,
extremely like each other.] So far I was not surprised, as, in order to
give this information, she had only to employ her faculty for thought-
reading, but after this my thoughts and her statements began to differ.
There was an old lady in my house, and expecting that the girl might
" see " her also, I asked if she did not see another lady, to which she
answered that she did see another, a young girl, whom she described so
exactly that I recognised Miss H. W. After that she told me that my
wife dressed and went out, entered a shop and bought something.
The experiment ended here.
I now made haste to write to my wife and ask if Miss H. W. had
been in our house that day (in June, 1888), and if, after her call, my
wife had gone to a shop and bought something. Some officers of the
regiment who knew of the case were with me anxiously awaiting the
answer, which came by return of post and was imparted to them.1 It
expressed my wife's great surprise (as I had not mentioned the means
by which I had learnt the facts) and said it certainly was true that
she had spoken to Miss H. W. on that day and hour, and had after
wards gone to a shop in the same street to buy something, but Miss
H. W. had not been at our house but at Ryssby, 20 kilometres from
Kalmar, and had been talking to my wife through a telephone.
1 This letter cannot now be found.
Dr Alfred Backman.
I have already published in the German magazine Sphinx (August,
1889) an account of another trial with the same subject. On that
occasion, notes were taken, which are as follows :—,
Notes of Some Psychological Experiments.
These experiments were made on June 20th, 1888, at 11 a.m., with a
girl named Anna Samuelsson, aged 14, from Hultsfred Hals, as subject, the
operator being Dr. Backman, in the presence of Messrs. O. Ahlgren, captain
in the Reserve of the Royal Regiment of Kalmar, Lieutenant E. Hageus,
Sub-Lieutenant A. Meyersson, and the Quarter-master, C. Ericsson, all
belonging to the said regiment. The experiments were made at Dr. Back-
man's room at the State Hospital at Hultsfred.
The undersigned Ericsson, having heard the marvellous results of hypno
tism talked of, happened to meet Dr. Backman in the camp, and asked his
permission to be present at the hypnotising of some person. This request
was quite unexpected by Dr. Backman, but, nevertheless, he granted it
instantly, on which he and both of us (Ericsson and Meyersson) went to the
hospital. On the way they were joined by me, Hageus, without any pre
vious agreement, and I, Ahlgren, came in after the seance had begun.
A woman named L. having been hypnotised and several experiments in
thought-transference, &c, having been made with her, she was asked to tell
the girl Anna to come up, but Dr. Backman had hardly uttered the order,
when Anna entered of her own accord. She took her place on a chair
opposite to Dr. Backman, and he told her to shut her eyes, but not to
go to sleep. The quarter-master Ericsson was asked what experiments he
would like to have made, Dr. Backman remarking that the girl could do as
well when awake as when hypnotised. As Ericsson did not suggest anything,
Dr. Backman told Anna to enter (as he expressed it) Ericsson's pocket and
purse and say how many coins there were in it. She said that there were
five, which was discovered, on inspection, to be quite true, though neither
Dr. Backman nor even I, Ericsson, knew what the number was. After
some other experiments and some conversation, the following dialogue took
place, in about these words :—Dr. B. : "Anna, now I wish you to go to
the quarter-master's, to the entry ; are you there now ? " Anna: "Yes."
Dr. B. : " Now enter the room to the right of the entry ; are you there ? "
Anna: "Yes." Dr. B. : "Is there anyone in the room?" Anna:
"Yes." Dr. B. : " Man or woman ? " Anna: "It is a man." Dr. B. :
"Young or old?" Anna: "Old." Dr. B. : "Who is it?" Anna:
" The under-quarter-master." Dr. B. (Doubtingly) : " What is he doing in
the quarter-master's room?" Anna : " He is writing." Dr. B. : "Whatishe
writing?" Anna: "I cannot see." Dr. B. : "You must look at it care
fully ; now, what is it?" Anna: "He is writing figures." Dr. B. (In
allusion to the arms hanging up in Ericsson's house) : "Is there anything
hanging on the wall, near the door?" Anna: "Yes." Dr. B. : "What is
it?" Anna: "It is clothes." Dr. B. (With a doubting smile): "Is
there anything leaning against the wall?" Anna: "Yes." Dr. B. :
"What is it?" Anna: "I cannot tell." Dr. B. : "Is it made of wood
or metal?" Anna: "Of wood." Dr. B. : "What is it then?" Anna:
"A large stick." Dr. B.: "Is the under-quarter-master still there?" Anna:
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 203
"Yes." Dr. B. : " What is he doing now ? " Anna: "He is going out."
Dr. B. : "Where is he going?" Anna: "Towards the plain." Dr. B. :
" In this direction or in the direction of the barracks?" Anna: "Of the
barracks." Dr. B. : " Is anyone with him ? " Anna: "Yes, one person."
After this, we, Ahlgren and Ericsson, went directly to the quarter-master's
house, and entering the apartment of the under-quarter-master (which was on
the left in the same entry) we found him at home. On being asked what he
had been doing, if he had been writing, he replied that he had, and that he
had been writing figures. Coats were hanging on the wall to the left of the
door, and leaning against the samewall in the cornerwas a stick about two yards
long, which, according to the under-quarter-master, had been put there without
any particular reason. The under-quarter-master afterwards told me, Ericsson,
that, at the time and on the occasion in question, two corporals had come to
him and there had been some talk of his accompanying them to the store
house, near the barracks, in order to give them some things. He had at
first intended to accompany them, but afterwards gave it up, on which the
two corporals left.
That the above account is true, that any supposition of fraud or collusion
is entirely without foundation, and that everything happened exactly as
related briefly above, we, the undersigned, testify, each one for the part of
it in which he was concerned, and all on our honour and conscience.
(C. E. Ericsson.
Oscar Ahlgren.
E. Hageus.
A. Meyersson.
Hultsfred.
One of the officers had painted two pictures, which were to be dis
posed of to his fellow officers by means of a lottery, in the summer of
1888. I think the number of lots was 75. When the list was signed
in full, I asked Anna which would be the winning numbers. She
answered that Nos. 4 and 9 would win, and I told the officers that
one of the pictures would be won on 4 or 8, and the other on 9 or 18 ;
this for the reason that I believe I have observed that just as the
clairvoyants mistake left and right, so they very often tell only the
half of numbers (perhaps from an involuntary mental suggestion of
the experimenter's). This happened a whole week before the drawing
of the lots. I was unable to be present, but what happened was that
Captain F. B. first drew No. 4. For the next number, two tickets
rolled up together were drawn ; he decided to take one of them, but
just as he was going to take it with the fingers of his left hand it
dropped on the floor. The one, left was then opened instead and was
found to be No. 18.
In the winter of 1889-90, the following event happened, which I
learnt both from the newspapers and from Anna, who gave the same
204 Dr. Alfred Bookman.
account. In the neighbourhood where she lives, a young man had
disappeared, and it was supposed that he had fallen under the ice in a
rather large lake that was near. It was dragged thoroughly to find
the body, but without success, and at last a trial was made with Anna,
who was hypnotised for that purpose by a physician living near the
place. While hypnotised, she described a place on the lake where
she said the body must be looked for—it lay at a certain number of
feet from the shore and a certain number of feet to tlie left. The place
described was dragged and nothing was found. But the idea arose,
some days later, that the clairvoyant this time, as often before, had
mistaken the right for the left. The lake was now dragged at the
place indicated, but to the right, and the body was found.
The subject whom I consider my best clairvoyant is named Alma
Radberg. She is a maid-servant, and is now aged about 26. As a child
and young girl she was sickly and delicate, but now, after a course of
hypnotic treatment, she is healthy, strong, and vigorous. She is a
very pious and good girl, of some intelligence, and by no means a
hysterical person. She has kindly allowed me and some others to
make innumerable experiments on her, and she is extremely susceptible
to suggestion, both awake and hypnotised. All kinds of experiments,
such as stigmatisation, &c, have been made on her successfully, both
in the waking and the hypnotic state. I may relate in passing one
instance that seems to me remarkable. In the middle of an experi
ment, I put a drop of water on her arm, suggesting to her that it was
a drop of burning sealing-wax, and that it would produce a blister,
which would, however, be healed after the third day. During the
progress of the experiment, I accidentally touched the water, making
it spread on her skin, whereupon I hastened to wipe it away. The
blister, which appeared the next day, extended as far as the water
had run, just as if it had been a corroding acid, and the wound healed
on the night of the third day.
The object of most of the experiments made with Alma has been
to describe to those present the apartments of a given person, &c. ; and
the occasions on which she has described the situation of the rooms,
furniture, pictures, ifec, quite correctly are so numerous that I can
,only give a few instances, not being able to recount all.
In October, 1888, Captain O. and his wife, who were in Kalmar, at
the house of Alma's master, Baron von Rosen, the Captain of the Pilotage,
asked permission to be present at an experiment of this kind. This was
granted, and Alma was hypnotised and then told to go to Stockholm, to
the place where Captain O.'s mother-in-law lived, to enter her apart
ment and say what she could see. She then described—quite correctly,
.as was afterwards found—the rooms and some remarkable objects in
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 205
them, which were unknown to all present, except to Captain and
Madame O. Among other things, she described minutely an antique
cupboard with conspicuous carving on the doors, and metal shining under
it [there was really a mirror under the carving] ; also a bust in a
window, a group of flowers near a door, portraits, &c, everything with
minuteness and perfect accuracy. On being asked what Captain O.'a
mother-in-law was doing, she said that she was sitting in one of the
rooms, talking to a young girl, who, however, was not either her
daughter or her grandchild, as we all supposed, but someone else.
[We heard some days later that the lady had really been sitting then
in the room described and talking to her maid-servant.] At Captain
O.'s wish, Alma was asked whether his mother-in-law had received any
letter that day. " Yes, she had ; the letter contained a key and spoke
about clothes." Captain O. then told us that he had really sent a
trunk containing clothes to his daughter, who was living at his mother-
in-law's, and that he had written to his mother-in-law about the trunk,
enclosing the key in the letter. On awaking, the clairvoyant gave
Captain O. a great many details about the apartment which she had
not mentioned before, and which were in the main correct.
On another occasion she was hypnotised by my honoured friend
Baron von Rosen, and the following is his account of what took
place :—
One day in September, 1888, in the afternoon, Alma Radberg was
hypnotised by me on my boat Kalmar, at Krakelund, on the east coast
of Sweden, where we lay at anchor for the night. There were present the
Director-General of Pilotage, Ankarcrona (who has kindly allowed his name
to be published), Captain Smith, commanding the Pilotage at Norrkoping,
my wife and I. The clairvoyant was ordered to find the Director-General's,
house at Stockholm and describe his apartment, where neither she, my wife,
nor I had ever been. She then described the lobby,—very dark, oblong, a
table near a wall, and a carpet on the floor; the drawing room,—a very large
room, with the tables, sofas, and chairs as they actually were, plenty of
ornaments (bibelots) everywhere, in a corner a number of plants, of which
she remarked that some were artificial, a magnificent chandelier, and on one
wall there was something strange, which she found it difficult to describe, it
was like shelves from the floor to the ceiling, covered with plush, and on
these shelves were standing many pieces of plate, on which "something was
written" [testimonials with inscriptions]. She also described correctly a large
picture of a landscape, and a large portrait of King Oscar, which was placed
on an easel, draped with a red cloth. The dining-room was dark, with a
high dado and a dark fireplace ; there were antique things standing on the
dado ; near one door something very peculiar, made of wood, and pointed
at the upper end [this, which she could not name, is a pair of carved snow-
shoes, placed near the door] ; also a dark chandelier and a couple of large
old chairs. In the Director-General's study, she described the carpet on the
floor, the sofa, two tables, and a large nosegay in one corner, and said that
206 Dr. Alfred Backman.
there were many pictures, On being asked where the wife of the Director-
General was, she answered, in a little room,—in the study, she was sitting
there reading a newspaper. When told to say what newspaper it was, the
clairvoyant answered, after very great efforts, " Sren-ska Dag-hla-del." She
said the lady had on a black brocaded dress, of some thick material. On
being asked if Madame A. had been at home the whole day, the clairvoyant
answered "No " ; and went on to say that Madame A. had paid a call at a
place quite near, at the house of a young couple, and she described one of
their rooms, and how the young lady, who was wearing a dark blue morning
dress, was playing with a baby a few months old ; she also gave a description
of her husband and of a maid-servant. " Do you recognise the young lady,
Alma?" "No—yes—now I remember ! It is Mrs. R." (Here she gave the
name of a young lady whom she had only seen once for a moment, a year
before, when she was passing through Kahnar.)
At the request of Captain Smith, I told Alma to visit his home in
Norrkoping. She obeyed, though unwillingly, and described correctly the
dining-room and bedroom. In the latter was Madame Smith, giving
medicine to a little girl, who was coughing, and about whom she was very
uneasy ; there was also an elderly maid-servant in the room.
Alma was now awakened, and seemed well, healthy, and cheerful. When
awake, she described still more distinctly the homes both of the Director-
General and of Captain Smith. According to information given later by
the Director-General, verbally and also in writing, Alma's description of his
house was wonderfully accurate ; also his wife's dress, the call that she paid,
the young couple, and even, contrary to our supposition, the newspaper she
had been reading, were all correctly described.
Captain Smith also said that all she had said of his house was correct.
The little girl had been taken very seriously ill the same day, which was the
cause of his having reached Kriikelund with his pilot-boat a little late, but
he had not told the reason to anyone present.
That all this is true and corresponds with the facts is attested by
Robert von Rosen, Baron,
Captain of Pilotage, Kahnar.
So far the Baron von Rosen. I have received orally from the
Director-General a full account of how everything happened, which
confirms the above statements.1
Another time Alma was hypnotised quite unpremeditatedly and
received an order to go to Stockholm to the house of the Director-
General of Pilotage, and see if he was at home. She said that he was,
1 Dr. Backman writes later :—
" Baron von Rosen made at once a sort of procis verbal of the experimenton board
the steamboat, and sent it to Madame Ankarcrona to know how much of it was true.
This procis verbal, which may still be in the possession of the Director-Genera), was
read to me, so that I am able to state that the account sent to you, which was written
by Baron von Rosen in June, 1889, is true and similar to the one received by Madame
Ankarcrona, except that the latter had many more details init. Further, the Director-
General described the whole experiment to me this summer, and his account corre
sponded perfectly with that of Baron von Rosen."—En.
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 207
he was sitting at the writing-table in his study, writing. Among other
things that she observed and mentioned was that there was a bunch of
keys on the writing-table. She was now sharply ordered to seize the
keys and shake them, and to put her other hand on the Director-
General's shoulder, in order to attract his attention. This was repeated
two or three times, and Alma declared that the Director-General really
observed her.
The Director-General, who had not the least idea that the experi
ment was taking place, was soon after informed of it, and has kindly
told me the following particulars about it. Before he heard of the
experiment, his attention had been fixed on the day and hour in
question, because he had then experienced a very strange thing, which
had seemed to him unusual and remarkable in more respects than one.
On that occasion he was sitting, fully occupied with his work, when,
without any reason whatever, his eyes fell on the bunch of keys lying
near him on the table. He then began to consider how he could have
put the bunch of keys there, and why it was there, when he knew for
certain that he was never in the habit of leaving it there. While
reflecting on this, he caught a glimpse of a woman. Thinking it was
his own maid-servant, he attached no importance to it, but, when the
occurrence was repeated, he called her and got up to see what was the
matter. But he found nobody, and was informed that neither his
servant nor any other woman had been in the room. He did not,
however, observe any rattling of the bunch of keys or any movement
of the keys.
The next experiment is, in my opinion, most important and
significant, because thought-transference seems to have been quite
excluded. Though in this, as in every other case, inaccurate or
incomplete statements occurred amongst the correct ones, I think that
everything should be recorded.1
On April 8th, 1890, I received a letter from Dr. F. Kjellman, of
Stockholm, in which he asked me to arrange a time at which I should
hypnotise Alma, of whom he had heard, and "ask her to find a certain
Dr. von B.,who was known to her, and describe the room in which he was,
the other persons present, the arrangements of the room, &c. Dr. K.
had purposely hung something on the chandelier that is not generally
there, in order to make the experiment more crucial." In answer to
this, I merely sent this telegram, " From 1 to 2 to-morrow, in your
1 Dr. Backman Bays that all the notes made of the experiments with Dr. Kjellman
were sent to the latter before he (Dr. Backman) knew anything about whether they
had been successful or not. It is these notes which he has sent us, without adding
anything to them.—Ed.
208 Dr. Alfred Backman.
apartment." No further arrangement was made, and Dr. Kjellman's
appearance, as well as his apartment, was quite unknown both to me
and the clairvoyant, and also to all the persons present with us. Alma
was hypnotised in my house at Kalmar, and the record made of the
sitting is as follows :—
April 9th, 1890, at 1.40 p.m. Alma is hypnotised and ordered to go to
Stockholm to the apartments of Dr. Kjellman. 1. "Is Alma there?"
"No." 2. Question repeated. "Yes." 3. " Is Dr. von B. in the apart
ments?" "Yes." 4. "Are there any other persons besides him and Dr.
Kjellman in the same room?" "Yes, one more gentleman." (She could
not see anyone besides.) 5. "What are they doing?" " One is sitting at
a writing-table. " 6. " Who is it, Dr. von B. or the other one?" "The
other one, the doctor." 7. "What are they doing?" " He is doing nothing ;
they are talking." 8. "Are they dressed in an uncommon way?" "No."
9. "Is there a chandelier hanging from the ceiling ? " " No, no chandelier,
something more like a lamp." 10. "Do you see anything particular there?"
" Something long and narrow is hanging in the chandelier." 11. " What is
it made of, stuff or metal?" "It must be metal, I think, and stuff also."
12. " Have you ever seen such a thing ? " " No, I never saw anything like
it." 13. "Try to see what it is, or what it is called." (No answer.) 14.
' ' What is it used for ? " "I do not know what it is used for. " " Is it any
thing used by physicians, or an ornament?" "More like an ornament,
larger than a ribbon. " 15. "What is it like, what colour is it?" " It is
white." 16. " Are there several colours ? " " It is also red. " 17. "What
is the metal like?" "It is white, probably silver. " 18. "Are there mount
ings fixed to the stuff, or stuff on a piece of metal ? " "I think the stuff is
wound round a piece of metal." 19. "How long and how broad is it?"
"A quarter of a yard broad, and three-quarters of a yard long." 20.
" What kind of stuff is it? " "Probably silk." 21. "Does the stuff belong
to the piece of metal? " "No, it is wound round it for the occasion." 22.
" What is it generally used for ?" "It ought to stand on a writing-table."
23. "What is the use of it?" (She does not know.) 24. "Is it fixed to
the lamp, or could it be easily taken off?" "It is not fixed firmly." 25.
" Can you take it off, Alma ? " "It does not seem to move." 26. "Look
at the stranger. What is he like?" "A very tall man." 27. "Is he
stout or slender ? " "He is a slender middle-aged man." 28. "Dark or
fair ? " "He looks fair. " 29. "Has he a beard ?" " He has a beard, but
it is partly shaved ; moustache—whiskers—only the chin is partly shaved. "
30. " What colour are his eyes ? " "Blue." 31. " What sort of nose has
he?" "Large, broad rather than thin." 32. " Is there anything remark
able in his face 1 " " He has sometimes a twitching in his right temple. "
33. " Is there anything peculiar in his hands ? " "Nothing." 34. "In his
costume?" " He has dark clothes. " 35. " In his watch-chain? " "There
is something like a ball or a locket hanging on it." 36. "What is his pro
fession?" "He must be some sort of teacher." 37. "Look at the
room." " It looks like a study." 38. " Is it the doctor's reception-room ? "
"No. There are striped coverings on the furniture, a large table, a great book
lying open on the writing-table, a printed book, with no pictures. I cannot
see what the book is about. On the walls are several little pictures, five or
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 209
six, mostly portraits of elderly persons. There is a cupboard with glass
doors. I believe there are books in it." She cannot possibly tell what is
hanging in the chandelier. When awake, she states that she believes
it was a pair of scissors for cutting paper, or a paper-knife, that was
hanging in the chandelier ; and it was probably fixed with a handkerchief.
There was also in the room a very long, stuffed easy-chair that could be pulled
down. She saw that Dr. von B. had spotted clothes on and was sitting
nearly half asleep, looking upwards and reflecting. She thought they were
talking about something then happening in Stockholm, probably some
experiment that was being made by a society. She judged Dr. Kjellman to
be of middle height, with dark moustache, rather stout, his hair combed on
one side ; she thought his eyes were dark brown, and his nose crooked. The
third man was either a physician or a teacher.1 She believed there were two
windows in the room, which was a large one, and thought the curtains were
dark and striped ; the fireplace was dark. She had not seen the other
rooms, she entered a lobby first with three doors, and then through a room
into this one. Present, the undersigned :—
Philip v. Tell, Kalmar,
Captain in the Regiment of Kalmar.
After having communicated to Dr. Kjellman what Alma had said,
I received from him two letters containing the following information :—
"There was really hanging in the chandelier a large pair of paper-scissors,
fixed by an indiarubber otoscope, and with a tea-rose and some forget-me-
nots in one of the handles of the scissors. There was a large easy-chair
that could be pulled down in the room, and we were talking about an experi
ment, but it was one that was taking place just then, as I was experiment
ing on a hypnotised subject. Six persons were in the room. Most of the
other things are wrong or prove nothing. It seems clear to me that she saw
something, but she must have been confused by a number of ideas arising
from the operation of her own brain."
On April 12th Dr. Kjellman wrote again :—-
" I must apologise for my letter of yesterday,—written during a recep
tion,—being so badly written and so incomplete.
" I will now add some points indicating that clairvoyance was going on.
Her statement that the object was hanging in a lamp, not in a chandelier,
was right. It is both a lamp and a chandelier, and the lamp was drawn
down a long way under the chandelier. Another interesting thing was her
maintaining that it was my study ; she probably calls an ante-chamber a
reception-room, as many people do.2 The fireplace is unusually dark, and
has a bookcase with glass doors standing near it. There are three doors in
the lobby, and it is necessary to pass through an outer room to enter the recep
tion-room. But here her successes end ; the rest is confused or wrong (three
windows in the reception-room, not two ; the description of my appear
ance, of Dr. v. B.'s position, &c). The dentist "Wessler was not badly
described."
'Teacher in Swedish is lararc and physician is lakarc.
2 I have tried this, and find that she really does so.—A. Backman.
P
210 Dr. Alfred Backman.
On April 19th in the same year, another trial was made, this time
,with two subjects at once. It was agreed with Dr. Kjellman that he
should write something in large letters on a piece of paper and put it in
a conspicuous position and strongly illuminated, and he also asked me by
a telegram to try to make them see " what there was on the large table
in the middle of the room."
This is the record of what was going on at Stockholm :—,
The arrangements in Dr. Kjellman's reception-room on April 19th, 1890,
at 7.40 p.m., were as follows :—
On the wall between two windows a brightly illuminated sheet of paper
on which is written in large clear letters the word bordet (the table). On a
large table in the middle of the room, a tray on which are placed (1) a dead
hen, of a yellow-white colour, with a silver spoon in its bill, (2) two live
crayfish, (3) a large lamp with a blue shade.
The persons present were Dr. von B., Dr. Claus, Miss M. Kjellman, Miss
Thelander, the dentist Mr. Wessler, and Dr. Kjellman. A large yellow dog
was also in the room. The seance finished at 9.25. The medium of the party
became slightly entranced, in a rather agitated way, and said on waking at
S. 15 that somebody seemed to have been looking at her. Her hands felt cold.
{ C. A. Claus.
) F. Kjellman.
(Signed) ^ c yoN B
V John Wessler.
After the trial the statements of one of the clairvoyants, Miss H.
L s, were found to be all wrong, whereas Alma had this time again
been successful in some points. I must observe that neither the subject
nor I knew anything about where or how the paper was to be placed.
My record runs thus (the words in square brackets being put in
afterwards by Dr. Kjellman) :—
April 19th, 1890. 7.55 p.m. Alma Riidberg speaking.
"On an oblong table in the middle of the room, something high is
standing—it must be some kind of case, it is dark and seems to be engraved.
It is certainly metal. [No such object on the oblong table.—Kjellman.]
(May it not be the lamp i—Backman.) There are many things on the table—
there are candles—something very much like a little tray standing there,
with several small objects on it. I really do not know what they are used
for—they must be instruments. "
Alma said, when awake, that "on one corner of the table there was a
tray with small objects on it, long and yellow. [The tray with the yellowish-
white hen was standing on one corner of the table.—Kjellman.] There was
something on one wall, made of stuff, a confused mass. I wonder if it was
not part of the curtain."
When asleep, she said, "There is something standing upright on the
table—it is something white, some paper—the candles are beside it—I think
it is supported by a book. There is something written on the paper and it
is that we have to read. I see the letters turned the right way—the first
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 211
letter looks like an A, the second like a B—two more letters—the paper is
not written all over, I think there are four letters, the third letter is R, the
fourth looks like J or Y."
When awake, she said, ''I believe the word was ' Bard ' or 'Hard'—a short
word with four letters. " (The paper was fixed on the wall. It is strange that
both the clairvoyants seem to have seen it in connection with the table.)
When asleep, she said, " A tall dark person, I think a woman, is able to
see me." (The order to go up to that person, and strike her on her shoulder
and force her to look at Alma, is mentally executed.—Backman.) "There are
surely four people there." When awake, she added, "one had spectacles."
[We were six ; I wear spectacles.—Kjellman.] When asleep, she said,
" There is something else on the table—like a man—it does not represent
anyone, it must be a bust " ; and when awake, "The statue looks like a man,
and is standing on one of the corners of the table—there are many candles,
so that there is a clear light over the table." [Wrong.—Kjellman.] When
awake, she further said, "There is a table in one corner with glasses and a
decanter on it." [Yes.—Kjellman.] "On a fireplace [Sofa.—Kjellman] frieze
there were standing either high candles or vases—some persons in an outer
room—some kind of drapery in front of the door." [Wrong.—Kjellman.]
There was a little dark gentleman whom she thought she had seen before.
The stance ended at 8.30.
About this I may remark that all my clairvoyants have on similar
occasions shown that they take great pride in describing correctly, and
during the experiments are quite able not to tell more than they wish.
Therefore it was not to be expected that the clairvoyant could be got
to confess that she saw a hen with a silver spoon in its bill and live
crayfish on the table in a physician's reception-room. I noticed also
that Alma seemed to be in an unusual condition that time, which
caused me to remark, in a private letter to Dr. Kjellman, accompanying
my record, that the clairvoyant had evidently not been well-disposed,
and that I believed the result was not very good. Even in this case,
however, there were some statements indicating that clairvoyance was
going on.
During one week, at a certain time every day, Dr. Kjellman placed
in his room a paper with a word written on it and an object near it.
Alma was not hypnotised for this, but was asked to try by herself to
discover what was written on the paper and what the object was, before
the end of the week. At the end of the time, she said that the word
began with the letter H, and referred to the object that was standing
by it, but she could give no description of the object.
Dr. Kjellman informs me that the paper had written on it the word
Hund (dog), and beside it were placed a pistol and a vase for flowers.
Another subject had said that the object was a glass vase, possibly
on a stand.
The last trial made in conjunction with Dr. Kjellman took place on
p 2
212 Dr. Alfred Backman.
May 1st in the same year, at 1.30 to 2 p.m. It was arranged that
something should be written on a piece of paper and some common
objects put on a table. After having received my account, Dr,
Kjellman told me what the arrangements had been. On a little table
near the middle window was placed a sheet of paper supported by a
photograph stand. On the upper part of the paper was written Land
(country) and below Torg (market-place). On another table there were
several piles of books and a large nickel cup to hold visiting cards.
Two ladies and Dr. Kjellman were present.
With regard to this, Alma said that the paper was near the
window (when awake, she said " on the wall near the window "), that
two words were written on it—the first letter was M, the second A, the
third R or N—(when awake, that " the word suggested something like
spring, when you looked at it"). " On the table some square thing was
lying. I think it is leather,—it looks spotted—I believe it is something
to keep papers in (perhaps the cover of a book ?—Backman), something
else that looks like a basket—like a basket for fruit [yes, not unlike.—
Kjellman], quite like a metal fruit-basket. I do not think there are
more than three people in the room, two ladies and a gentleman."
I have tried several times to make the clairvoyants read in a
(so-called) supersensuous manner, and they have succeeded pretty
well. I have never remarked any difference in the results when the
hypnotiser knew the words or when they were quite unknown to all
persons present. They have seldom read the actual words, generally
they only give a summary account of the meaning. I shall cite a few
such experiments, some of which have been carried out by the clair
voyant putting the writing, well enclosed in a perfectly opaque
envelope, under her pillow, and trying to find out what was in it
during a natural sleep.
Record. Miss Ebba Lundberg received on February 7th an envelope
sealed with five seals, inside which Dr. Backman had written something
unknown to both of us. I, E. Lundberg, who had received no indication
as to the content of the writing, returned the envelope to-day with the seals
unbroken and uninjured, declaring that the writing contained something
about the power of hypnotism to cure illnesses, if only it is believed in.
The writing, which could not have been read by any ordinary means,
was opened by me, Sophie Louise Posse, and was found to contain a
prescription form, on which was written in large letters, " Believe and you
will be healed ! "
I affirm that this experiment was genuine and that no deceit was
exercised.
(Signed)
Kalmar, February 14th, 1890.
Experiments in Clairvoyance.
In a similar experiment at another time, Miss Lundberg said that
," Kalmar " was written on the paper. The word really was " Karma,"
and it was the only word on the paper.
On another occasion I received an envelope sealed with many seals
from one of my colleagues. He said that it contained a letter and
begged me to find out what it was about. It was not possible to see
anything of it by normal eyes, and the clairvoyants (for I tried two)
were never allowed to touch it while they were alone, or in a way that
rendered deceit possible.
Miss Hilda Ljunggren, while hypnotised, gave a description first of
a town, plainly enough to make me understand that it was not a
Swedish town, also a minute description of a man of 40, with luxuriant
chestnut hair, long well-kept whiskers, nose slightly crooked, deep blue
eyes, a deep wrinkle from the root of the nose, fairly tall (may not all
this apply to Braid 1—Backman), a learned man. She saw him sitting
at a table, occupied with his work ; it seemed as if he had written a
book, which treated of hypnotism, and something more also—something
scientific. She said that the writing inside the envelope was not in
the form of a letter; it contained about six lines and expressed a doubt
whether hypnotism could help in certain cases ; two persons had
disputed about it.
I communicated all this to my honoured colleague, at the same time
returning the envelope undamaged to him. He sent me back the
envelope intact, so that I might open it myself, which I did. It con
tained a piece of notepaper, on which was written in four lines the
motto used by Braid in his book on Hypnotism : " Unlimited scepti
cism is equally the child of imbecility as implicit credulity."
In the month of October, 1888, the neighbourhood of Kalmar was
shocked by a horrible murder committed in the parish of Wissefjerda,
which is about 50 kilometres from Kalmar as the crow flies. What
happened was that a farmer, named P. J. Gustafsson, had been killed
by a shot while driving, having been forced to stop by stones being put
on the road. The murder had been committed in the evening, and a
certain tramp was suspected because Gustafsson, in his capacity of
under-bailiff, had arrested him, and he had then undergone several
years' penal servitude.1
This was all that either I or the public knew about the case on
November 1st in the same year ; the place where the murder was
committed and the persons implicated in it were quite unknown both
to me and to the clairvoyant.
I I afterwards found that tbis statement aboutthe tramp being suspected was only
invented to allay the fears of the persons really suspected of the crime.
214 Dr. Alfred Backman.
On the same day, November 1st, having some reason to believe
that such a trial would be at least partially successful, I experimented
with a clairvoyant, Miss Agda Olsen, to try if it was possible to get
some information in this way about such an event.
The judge of the neighbourhood, who had promised to be present,
was unfortunately prevented from coming. The clairvoyant was
hypnotised in my wife's presence and was then ordered " to look for
the place where the murder had been committed and see the whole
scene, follow the murderer in his flight, and describe him and his home
and the motive for the murder." Miss Olsen then spoke as follows,
in great agitation, sometimes using violent gestures. I took notes of
her exact words and reproduce them here fully.
" It is between two villages—I see a road—in a wood—now it is coming
—the gun—now he is coming along, driving—the horse is afraid of the
stones—hold the horse ! hold the horse ! now ! now he is killing him—he
was kneeling when he fired—blood ! blood !—now he is running in the
wood—seize him ! he is running in an opposite direction to the horse in
many circuits—not on any footpaths. He wears a cap and grey clothes—
light—has long coarse brown hair,1 which has not been cut for a long time
—grey-blue eyes — treacherous looks — great dark brown beard — he is
accustomed to work on the land. I believe he has cut his right hand. He
has a scar or a streak between his thumb and forefinger. He is suspicious
and a coward.
" The murderer's home is a red wooden house, standing a little way back
from the road. On the ground-floor is a room which leads into the kitchen
and from that again into the passage. There is also a larger room which
does not communicate with the kitchen. The church of Wissefjerda is
situated obliquely to your right when you are standing in the passage.
" His motive was enmity; it seems as if he had bought something—taken
something—a paper. He went away from home at daybreak, and the
murder was committed in the evening."
Miss Olsen was then awakened and, like all my subjects, she
remembered perfectly what she had been seeing, which had made a
very profound impression on her ; she added several things which I did
not write down.
On November 6th (Monday) I met Miss Olsen, and she told me
in great agitation that she had met the murderer from Wissefjerda
in the street. He was accompanied by a younger person and followed
by two policemen, and was walking from the police office to the gaol.
I at once expressed my doubts of her being right, partly because
country people are generally arrested by the country police, partly
because they are always taken directly to gaol. But when she insisted
1 On seeing the supposed murderer for the first time several months later, I could
test the accuracy of the description. He was bald, but had let the hair on his neck
grow long, and, by combing it over his head, hid his baldness completely.
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 215
on it, and maintained that it was the person she had seen when asleep,
I went to the police office.
I inquired if anyone had been arrested on suspicion of the crime
in question, and a police-constable answered that such was the case,
and that, as they had been taken to the town on Sunday, they had been
kept in the police-station overnight and after that had been obliged to
go on foot to gaol, accompanied by two constables. As to what
happened at my visit to the police office, the police-constable, T. A.
Ljung, has kindly given the following account :—
At Dr. A. Backman's request I give here an account of the occasion
when he came to the police office and asked for me, who, he knew,1 had
assisted in arresting the former farmer, Niklas Jonasson, and his son, Per
August Niklasson, at Lassamala, in the parish of Wissefjerda, on suspicion of
having murdered the farmer, Peter Johan Gustafsson, at Buggehult. Dr.
Backman said that by hypnotising a woman he had obtained some informa
tion about the murder from her.
P. J. Gustafsson had been murdered on October 24th, 1888, probably
about 4 p.m., on the public road between the villages of Buggehult and
Lassamala. On November 4th the aforesaid persons, being strongly
suspected of being the murderers, were arrested by J. Malmberg, the
superintendent of the police in Kalmar, on which occasion I was present.
On November 6th, in the same year, Dr. Backman came to the police
office, wishing to speak to the superintendent, but the latter not being
present at the moment, he addressed himself to me with regard to a
memorandum that he brought with him and read to me. He put several
questions to me about the place where the murder was committed, the
dwelling of the persons suspected of the murder, &c. Dr. Backman on
this occasion described quite accurately the appearance of the house, its
furniture, how the rooms were situated, where the suspected men lived, and
gave a very correct account of Niklas Jonasson's personal appearance.
The doctor also asked me if I had observed that Jonasson had a scar on his
right hand. I had not then observed it, but since then I have ascertained
that it really is so, and Jonasson says that he got it from an abscess.
One of Dr. Backman's assertions—that the. church of that or another
parish could be seen from the house of the supposed murderers—did not
accord with the facts.2
I am convinced that Dr. Backman could not possibly have got this
information in any ordinary way, and I also know that the hypnotised subject
had not, up to that time, seen the parish of Wissefjerda and consequently
could not have the least idea of the appearance of the place.
I affirm the truth of this account on my honour and conscience.
(Signed and sealed) T. A. Ljung,
Police-constable at Kalmar.
Kalmar, June, <2lt\ 1889.
1 A constable in the outer room had told me this.—Backman.
2 It is, however, correct if you suppose it possible to see through a large forest.—
Backman.
216 Dr. Alfred Baxkman.
The trial was a long one and showed that Gustafsson had agreed to
buy for Jonasson, but in his own name, the latter's farm, which was
sold by auction on account of Jonasson's debts. (This is what is called
a thief's bargain.) Gustafsson bought the farm, but kept it for him
self. The statements of the accused men were very vague ; the father
had prepared an alibi with much care, but it failed to account for just
the length of time that was provably enough to commit the murder in.
The son tried to prove an alibi by means of two witnesses, but these
confessed that they had given false evidence, which he had bribed
them to do when they were in prison with him on account of another
matter.
But though the evidence against the defendants was very strong, it
was not considered that there was sufficient legal evidence, and—there
being no jury in Sweden—they were left to the verdict of posterity.
As mentioned at the beginning of my account, I have sometimes in
carrying on these experiments made the clairvoyant look, while awake,
in a little crystal, placed in a small wooden tablet (Hansen's model).
I will give here only one example, and one which might be explained
by thought-transference—as there was one person in the room who
knew of the events described.
I told the clairvoyant, Miss Olsen, to see in the crystal what Miss
, who was present, had been doing the night before. After a few
moments, she said that she saw a meadow in the crystal, and in it a
certain number (giving the number correctly) of ladies and gentlemen,
who were dancing and drinking champagne. This seemed to her very
improbable, because it was then November, a season that is not chosen
in this country for picnics. She described minutely several other
things which were not written down, but were quite correct, according
to what Miss said later on.1
I have sometimes tried to discover whether a clairvoyant could
really see something that had not yet taken place, but there are
many reasons why all my experiments cannot, at least for the present,
be published. I will give only two instances, which seem to me
remarkable in several respects.
1 In a letter dated December 19th, 1890, Dr. Backman says :—
" Several persons were present. No notes were taken, but the story made so much
sensation that it has not been forgotten. Miss supplemented the account to-day
by reminding me that on looking into the crystal, Miss Olsen first gave a perfect
description of a lady with whom Miss had talked on meeting her in the street
the day before; she described her face, her dress, &c. , very accurately, and said
besides that she had two gold rings on the fourth finger of her left hand (a sign of
marriage). After that Miss Olsen suddenly began to laugh and said : ' Miss is
in a merry company—they are dancing—the corks of the champagne bottles are
jumping, &c.' Miss cannot remember that any wrong detail was given by
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 217
Some days before Christmas, 1888, I hypnotised Miss Hilda
Ljunggren, and asked her to go to the castle at Stockholm and see the
King's Christmas presents as they would be arranged on Christmas
Eve. She then, making a great effort, described some things which I
wrote down ; she saw them placed in a room, and described, for
instance, a piece of stuff of an artistic kind, such as is found at the
"Society for the Promotion of Art Needlework" at Stockholm. It was
spread over a sofa, but she could not tell if it was a sofa-cover, or a
portiere, or a curtain. Another thing—an image, as she called it—she
could not look at, because such a strong light was coming from it that
" it hurt her eyes."
The editor of the Kalmar newspaper, The Barometer, has kindly
given the following evidence :—
According to Dr. Backman's request, I state that I received from him
on December 23rd, 1888, a sealed envelope, which I kept, carefully locked
up. On December 28th of the same year, I opened the envelope in the
presence of M. Jonsson, the sub-editor, and of G. Ekerot. It contained
the following writing :—
His Majesty the King will receive, among other Christmas gifts,
(1) A piece of sculpture, representing an equestrian figure.
(2) A case or box of a curious yellow colour.
(3) Something uncommon, that I cannot name, shining, and about one
foot high, the lower part of it in the form of a pillar.
(4) A brown and black portfolio containing pictures or drawings.
(5) A clock.
(6) A piece of stuff (or a sofa-cover) of art texture.
(7) An image with quite a flood of light about it.
(8) A china vase, with flowers on a light ground."
Kalmar, June 17th, 1889.
We testify that the writing which was enclosed in the envelope con
tained exactly what has been quoted above.
Miss Olsen, except that she thinks the number of persons present was not correctly
given."
With Dr. Backman's permission, we wrote to Miss asking for her confirmation
of these incidents, and she has kindly replied as follows :—
" I am very willing to give you a description of what I saw and heard at Dr.
Backman's, the day he has mentioned in his letter to you.
" When I came to him, he made a hypnotic experiment with Miss Olsen, who
should endeavour to find some papers lying somewhere in Dr. Backman's apartment,
and, to my great surprise, she succeeded in finding them. After her being awakened,
Dr. Backman gave her a large glass button and asked her to look in it and see if she
could find out what I had done the day before. She succeeded even in this to an
astonishing degree." This letter is dated March 8th, 1891.—Ed.
Kalmar, December 23rd, 1888.
G. Hj. Petbrsson,
Editor of The Barometer.
(Signed)
218 Dr. Alfred Backman.
Unfortwnately I could only refer to the accounts given in the
newspapers to verify these statements, and, in them, only a certain
number of the King's Christmas presents were mentioned. They
said :—
" The King received among other things . . . curtains and portieres,
and candlesticks for his writing-table. From the Queen an antique table in
the baroque style, with gilt and carved feet ; all bought from the Society
for the Promotion of Art Needlework. From the Prince and Princess
Royal two silver-plated girandoles of chased copper1 and a card-table.
From Prince Charles a leather portfolio. From the Princess Royal of
Denmark a china vase. Among the many Christmas presents of the King
were several large photographs."
We certify that the above may be read in the Kalmar newspaper, The
Barometer, of December 29th, 1888.
gunnar ekerot.
Martin Jonsson.
Sometimes, as I mentioned before, I directed the clairvoyant to
hear answers to my questions spoken by a so-called "guide." On these
occasions, Alma has surprised everyone by generally pronouncing
English astonishingly well, though she had never heard the names
spoken, and has also shown a remarkable power of finding her way
in London and telling the situations of streets and places, which were
perfectly unknown to all present.
The following testimony relates to such an experiment :—-
In conformity with the wish of Dr. A. Backman, I assert that, on the
13th of this month, he gave me a closed and sealed envelope, with the
request that I would keep it and open it on a day that he had fixed ; that I
took the envelope, and kept it in a locked drawer in my house ; and that
to-day, at Dr. Backman's request, I have broken the seals and opened the
envelope and found that it contained a paper with this writing :—
" Kalmar, December 8th, 1888.
"On Saturday, the 22nd of this month of December, the Whitechapel
murderer will commit his last murder in London. It will take place at
10.30 in the evening, in a street the name of which, according to the
Swedish pronunciation, begins with Black (probably Blakesley-street).
" Alfred Backman."
(Signed) Oscar Mellin, Alderman, Public Notary.
Kalmar, December 28th, 1888.
In The Barometer of December 29th appeared the following :—
"Murder in London.—A telegram from the above-mentioned town,
dated the 22nd of this month, says :—To-night, in the quarter of Poplar,
a woman, about thirty years of age, who has not yet been identified, was
1 The castle is lighted with electric light.
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 219
found strangled, under circumstances which make it probable that she was
the victim of the Whitechapel murderer, who has now perhaps begun to
employ a new method of murdering."
We certify that the above account is to be found in the Kalmar news
paper, The Barometer, of December 29th, 1888.
(Signed) /GchkarEkkrot.
( Martin.Jojjsson. 1
No one can be more sensible than myself of the defects in the
experiments which I have here related, but I believe with Professor
Richet that such trials, though we can never command success in them,
prove that we have to do here with a human faculty not yet recognised
and which is worthy of being studied and established by scientific
experiments.
If these modest attempts of mine are able to stimulate others to
further investigations, I shall have attained my aim in publishing them.
Alfred Backman.
Kalmar, August, 1890.
Case accidentally omitted by Dr. Bachnan and sent later.
Sub-Lieutenant "Werner had lost a little silver revolver, about S
cm. long, which he valued very much. He lost it in a sandy field, and
1 We have made inquiries as to the murder reported in the Kalmar Barometer and
find that the Times of December 22nd, 1888, has a report of an inquest held upon the
body of a woman, about 30 years of age, found in Clarke's-yard, High-street, Poplar,
about 4 a.m. on December 20th. The inquest was held on the 21st, and the divisional
surgeon in his evidence gave his opinion that death was due to suffocation by strangu
lation. The Times observes that the mystery can only be compared to that which
attended the recent series of crimes in the same district. The account of the inquest
shows that the body was discovered very soon after the murder. There seems, how
ever, to have been some further doubt as to the cause of the death, since the police
authorities informed us in answer to our inquiries that the woman, who was named
Catherine Millet, died in a drunken sleep and not by homicidal violence. However,
the Times of December 29th states that "nothing of the nature of a clue has been
discovered, and the medical men still adhere to the opinion that deceased was foully
murdered."
The discrepancies between the English accounts and that appearing in the
Kalmar Barometer were pointed out to Dr. Backman, and we further askeil him if
supposed Whitechapel murders were often reported in the Swedish newspapers,
or if this was the only case about that time. He replies :—,
" When Alma predicted the murder, there had not been any notices about
' Jack ' for two or three months ; since the notice about the woman found murdered
and mutilated in the Thames at the end of the summer of 1888 up to the middle of
1889, there was no other notice of a murder supposed to have been committed by
' Jack ' except that of the murder of December 22nd, 1888, and if that notice was
not true, it was not invented in Sweden. It appeared in all the Swedish Press, and I
saw it first in the journal Dagens Nyheter of December 28th."
It will be observed that, whatever the facts about the supposed murder were,
there remains a very striking coincidence between Alma's predictions and the state
ments in the Kalmar Barometer.—Ed.
220 Dr. Alfred Baekman.
eight soldiers searched for it in vain for half-a-day. Some days after
wards, I hypnotised Anna Samuelsson and went with her, still asleep,
to the held, where I told her to search for the revolver. She went to
a certain spot in the field, where she kept on going from side to side,
but could not find the revolver. I then asked if she could tell me
whether I should succeed in finding it. Yes, she answered, she saw
Lieutenant Werner wearing it again.
Next day I suggested to another young patient named Cecilia, that
when she went away from the military hospital, where we then were,
she should go to the spot where the revolver was lying, take it out of
the sand, and give it to me on the following day.
When she came to me on the following day, she actually brought
the revolver with her. Her mother told me that when Cecilia went
away from the hospital, she walked straight to a very sandy part of
the field (which I afterwards found was the same place that Anna
went to), removed a little sand and found the revolver, which is now
again worn by its owner.
A. Backxan.
Dr. Baekman writes later, in answer to inquiries :—
"As to the revolver, I wrote at once to Lieutenant Werner, telling him
the circumstances of the finding ; I have heard him repeat them several
times, so that I am sure that I have neither forgotten nor altered anything
in the account that I sent you.
"I have not been able to trace Cecilia and her mother. They are some
where in the north of Smaland, but as soon as I can get their address I will
try to obtain an account from the mother. Both she and her husband were
much respected in the parish in which they then lived and she was a very
pious woman. The account that she gave me is therefore probably true, and
in any case, there is the revolver as a proof of it. It was lost on about June
26th or 28th, 1889, and found again about July 4th. I do not remember the
exact date."
A Case of. Double Consciousness. 221
III.
A CASE OF DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNESS.
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
The case which I am about to relate has many points of interest.
The secondary condition has, so far as can be ascertained, occurred only
once in the lifetime of the subject ; and the memory of it, entirely
lost during waking hours, is easily, though incompletely, brought back
by putting the patient into the hypnotic trance.
Ansel Bourne, at the time of his seizure, was an itinerant preacher
61 years old, and residing in the small town of Greene, in the State of
Rhode Island. One morning, whilst apparently in his usual state of
health, he disappeared, and in spite of the publicity which the news
papers gave to the fact, and the efforts of the police to find him, he
remained undiscovered for a period of two months, at the end of which
time he turned up at Norristown, Pennsylvania, where for the previous
six weeks he had been keeping a small variety store under the name of
A. J. Brown, appearing to his neighbours and customers as a normal
person, but being, as it would seem, in a somnambulistic condition all
the while. As Elder Bourne's life presents at least one other incident
of great interest, I shall give a sketch of its entire course, as an
introduction to my account of the episode which forms the main sub
ject of this paper.
Ansel Bourne is of New England parentage, and was born in New
York city, July 8th, 1826. His maternal grandfather " lost his mind"
late in life ("about 70 "), but seems to have had no acute form of
insanity. His father "became dissipated," so that Ansel's mother
and he separated when Ansel was only seven years old, and the
boy's early life was spent in poverty, with little schooling and much
work, until at the age of 15 he was set to learn the carpenter's trade
at Olneyville, Rhode Island. From then to the age of 31 he worked
at his trade at various places in that State. Being of a serious turn
of mind, he read and studied a good deal in his leisure moments, and
from having become a member of the Baptist Church, changed at last
into a convinced atheist, not of the disputatious and aggressive sort,
but silent and stubborn, as he is wont to be in other matters which are
exclusively "his own business." Meantime he had married, in 1854,
and had children, and in 1857 was living at Westerly, R.I., next door
to Mr. Taylor, minister of the so-called " Christian " Church, for whom
222 R. Hodgson.
he had come to cherish a decided feeling of enmity. In relating the
crisis of that year, I abridge the account given in a pamphlet 1 which
has had a wide circulation.
On Thursday, August 6th, 1857, he was brought home from South Kings
ton in a condition of sickness, perhaps induced by labouring beyond his
strength at the place of Mr. Rowland G. Hazard. After reaching home
(accompanied by Mr. J. E. Brown), he rested through Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday, and was very much restored. Feeling well and comfortable on
Monday morning, August 10th, he was disposed to return to his work at
South Kingston, a distance of near thirty miles. But Mrs. Bourne per
suaded him to relinquish the idea, and remain at home that week. He
therefore remained, and occupied himself with labours of improvement upon
his own place—painting and so forth, until Thursday night. On Friday,
August 14th, the hottest day of the season, he went to work in his garden.
Between the hours of one and two p.m. he experienced much pain in his
head, and was obliged to relinquish his work and go into the house. After
staying, perhaps, three-quarters of an hour the pain left him and he returned
to his work in the garden. He worked until it was dark, at night, when he
went into the house, and enjoyed refreshing sleep through the night. In
the morning, on Saturday, he felt considerable pain in his head, which con
tinued through the day. At night the pain ceased so that he again enjoyed
a good night's rest.
On the afternoon of Sunday, which was the 16th of August, having no
scruples about working on Sunday as freely as any day, he went to work,
preparing to leave home again for awhile. About 4 o'clock he went out to
cut some wood, when, having some feeling in his head which he does not
remember so that he can describe it, he put his hand to his head, and this
was the last that he can remember that took place, or of which he was con
scious at the time, until Tuesday, the 18th. From Tuesday morning until
Wednesday in the afternoon he was perfectly conscious of his condition,
except, as friends affirm, that he was a little delirious on Tuesday night. He
ran down rapidly and his restoration or recovery became very doubtful.
This was understood to be the judgment of his physician, Dr. Thurston.
On Wednesday his mother visited him. She asked him if he was ready to
die. He answered that he was. But this answer was given without a single
thought of God, or a state of existence beyond the grave. All his thoughts
of anxiety were about his family. To leave them was painful.
Soon after, a change took place, and he rapidly recovered. In about
three weeks he was able to return to his work at South Kingston. It was
on Monday, September 7th, that he went to that place. He was able to
> " Wonderful Works of God: A narrative of the wonderful facts in the case of
Ansel Bourne, of West Shelby, Orleans Co., N.Y., who, in the midst of opposition
to the Christian religion, was suddenly struck blind, dumb, and deaf ; and after 18
days was suddenly and completely restored, in the presence of hundreds of persons, in
the Christian Chapel at Westerly, on the loth of November, 1857. Written under his
direction." (Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, by Ansel Bourne,
in the clerk's office of the District Court for the Southern District of the State of
New York.)
A Case of Double Consciousness. 223
work by day, but could not rest at night, on account of neuralgia and a
severe pain in his head. On Friday, by advice of his friends, he returned
home again. On Monday, September 14th, Dr. Thurston visited him, and
continued his attendance by frequent visits until about the 1st of October.
During this month he broke down twice in attempting to work, and had to
go to bed. But, on the whole, he improved, so that by the 28th he thought
himself about well.
On Sunday the 25th of October he spent the day and evening at his own
house, playing at cards. He was so settled in his ideas of right and privilege
to do as he pleased on that day, that if the Christian minister, who lived
next door to him, Rev. John Taylor, had come into his house, he is sure he
should not have moved from his seat. Some of those who thus spent the
day with him have since united with the Christian Church in Westerly. This
playing was not for money, but merely for amusement. He has never played
for money.
On the 28th of October he started for the village of Westerly, about one
mile to the north of his house. When he had gone perhaps a quarter of a
mile, and had begun to descend towards the village, he was perceived by
some persons to be walking quite fast, as though feeling quite well. He was
conscious of no unusual feelings, until a thought came up vividly in his mind
that he ought to go to meeting (i.e., to church). This thought was connected
with no conscientious feeling of duty to go to meeting, but seemed a mere
internal and unaccountable suggestion. To the suggestion he answered,
"Where ? " To this inquiry he was answered in the same manner, "To the
Christian chapel." To this idea his spirit rose up in decided and bitter
opposition, and he said within himself, " I would rather be struck deaf and
dumb for ever than to go there." He continued onward for eighteen or
twenty rods, when a friend of his passed by him on a lumber-reach, to whom he
bowed as the man passed. Immediately afterwards he felt dizzy, and desired
to sit down. Looking ahead he saw nothing that he could sit down on.
Turning back he saw at a little distance a flat stone close to the side of a
stone wall. He went to that immediately and sat down. He leaned his
head against the wall and felt immediately relieved of his dizziness, and
supposed he should be able in a minute or two to proceed on his business. He
then looked up the road, toward home, and saw an aged man, Mr. John
Thompson, approaching him, on foot, beside a waggon. Mr. Thompson was
near the place where he had been a few minutes before, when the idea was
suggested to him that he ought to go to meeting. In an instant, after
beholding Mr. Thompson, it seemed as though some powerful hand drew
something down over his head, and then over his face, and finally over his
whole body ; depriving him of his sight, his hearing, and his speech, and
rendering him perfectly helpless. Yet he had as perfect power of thought
as at any time in his life. His mind instantly went back to the conflict of
his thoughts, some eight or ten minutes before. The terrible decision and
choice, ' ' I would rather be struck deaf and dumb for ever, than go to the
Christian chapel," came before him with awful significance. It seemed that
God had truly taken him at his word, and given him what he had chosen.
The decision of ten years before, "If there is a God, and He will show me
from His hand, I will believe in Him," now came to memory. In this, too
224 R. Hodgson.
it appeared that God had taken him at his word. He trembled, and his
soul, as though sinking in deep waters, acknowledged, " There is a God."
The sins of a whole lifetime came before his mind in an instant, like a flash
of lightning. And how awful was everything ! He was not only deaf and
dumb, but, more dreadful still, he was perfectly blind. He saw no one—he
heard no one—he could call no one—and all his strength was gone. Then
the dreadful question, " Am I to remain in this condition ? " He thought
that he was about to die. And he dared not in his secret soul ask God to
take him to Himself. It appeared to him that such a request would be a
greater insult to a holy and just God than even all his former sins. He dared
not to think of so insulting God. He could not speak to ask forgiveness of
those whose forgiveness he would have gladly sought.
After the brief space of what he thinks could not have been more than
two or three minutes, he was taken up and put in a waggon, and carried away.
He was perfectly sensible of all this, although he could hear nothing, see
nothing, and communicate nothing. He felt the motion of the waggon and
the touch of hands, and supposed he was being carried towards home, which
was the case. He knew and realised perfectly when he was carried into the
house and placed in a chair. He wondered why they should have placed him
in a chair rather than on a bed. In a little time after, he felt the touch of
hands again, which took him from the chair and placed him on a bed.
Dr. William T. Thurston was called immediately. In a letter which he
wrote to the Providence Journal, under date of November 20th, he says of
this visit, " I heard nothing more of him (after the 2nd of October) till the
28th of that month, when in haste I was summoned to him. On reaching
his bedside I found him perfectly insensible—very much in the condition
of a person in a fainting fit. The pupils of his eyes were quite insensible of
light, widely dilated and not contracting on the application of sudden and
vivid light. He was, in fact, perfectly insensible."
Mr. Bourne does not wish to question the honesty and sincerity of
Dr. Thurston, when he says, "He was, in fact, perfectly insensible." He
supposes the doctor might have thought so, for he gave him no evidence
to the contrary. Yet, he says, he was perfectly sensible to the touch of
hands, which he supposed at the time to be those of Dr. Thurston. He
knew perfectly well when his eyelids were touched and drawn ; yet he saw
nothing, he heard nothing, and lay helpless as an infant. When different
hands touched him he reasoned with himself, and thought he knew which
was the doctor and which was his wife, when they were handling him in any
way. When touched, at certain times, he felt confident that it was by his
children. He was not insensible, as the doctor seems to have supposed.
His mind was perfectly active all of the time, but he was unable to
communicate any thought or feeling which he had to others, so that they
could know that he was sensible of what was passing. About him all was as
silent as though there were neither a God, nor life, nor motion in the whole
wide universe. This silence was as though the soul had been cast into a
deep, bottomless, and shoreless sepulchre, where dismal silence was to reign
eternally. He fully acknowledged the justice of God in his condemnation,
and spurned from his soul the thought of insulting God by asking mercy for
such a sinner. He scorned to ask for mercy when it was not his due.
A Case of Double Consciousness. 225
During the night he gained some strength, and at a time which he
supposes to have been near morning he was anxious to know where he was,
and whether he had really been placed in his own house, and among his
friends. But how could he know ? He recollected the form of the bedstead
posts, and the position which the bed occupied, upon which he supposed he
was then lying. He felt of the posts and thought he was certain of their
identity. He reached out near the head of the bed, to see if there was a
window, and found there was. He was then fully satisfied that he was in his
own house.
At a certain time which he supposed to be morning, he felt movements
on his bed, and soon was satisfied that his little children were with him and
were kissing him. Their familiar expression of " Pa ! " he could no longer hear,
nor any sound which their movements made. He could see nothing of
these loved ones, but he was sure they were there, and that they were address
ing him as they had done before. But the silence was too deep to be
broken, and appeared too awful to be endured.
In the afternoon, about twenty-six hours from the time he was stricken
down, when subject to no unusual sensation or feeling in his head, his sight was
restored in an instant. He saw his wife and one of his neighbours standing
near, with their lips in motion. They appeared to be addressing him, as
though unconscious of his inability to hear. It appeared to him then that
they were ignorant of his deafness. He made signs of writing on his hand,
when his wife immediately procured a pen and paper. While she was gone
after pen and paper the question arose in his mind, " Are you now willing
to ask forgiveness of all those whom you have injured?" To this question
he answered affirmatively. When she came to him he took pen and paper
and wrote that he could not hear.
During the forenoon, remembering the enmity he had cherished toward
Rev. John Taylor, he wrote upon a slate requesting that he might be sent
for. This request was complied with, and Mr. Taylor came immediately.
Mr. Bourne asked his forgiveness by writing. Mr. Taylor seized his hand,
pressing it so earnestly, and with evident sympathy, that he felt fully
assured that his enmity was freely forgiven. Mr. Bourne inquired of him if
he would go after Mr. Joshua Thompson, Jun.—toward whom he had
cherished so much enmity, that he had said if he saw him drowning he would
not help him.
Toward evening Mr. Charles W. Thompson, a brother of Mr. Joshua
Thompson, Jun., came in, and took him by the hand. He inquired after
his health, and then added, " Will not your brother come ? " Just as Mr.
Bourne wrote this question, and put it to Mr. Thompson, his brother
entered. He saw him approach, and he seemed to glide up to him like a
shadow, for to him his approach was as noiseless as though the man had been
a spirit only. He then took the slate and wrote, " Will you forgive me ? "
The answer of Mr. Thompson relieved him greatly.
As soon as he had effected a reconciliation with his fellow men, he felt
a great measure of relief. He then felt emboldened to approach God. He
began, in the solemn and silent depths of his soul, to offer unutterable
prayer. His tongue was chained to his teeth when he attempted to utter
words. He could use it freely, when eating, to move his food. He could
Q
226 R. Hodgson.
use it to clean his teeth, as freely as need be, but when he attempted to
form words it was as though chained to his forward teeth. He says that the
idea of his having no use of his tongue is wholly erroneous. But he could
not use it for speech. He could pray, but his prayers were the supplications
of the mind ; his bodily powers not participating in the act of supplication.
Mr. Bourne then requested a prayer meeting at his house. Although he
could lend no listening ear to the supplications of those present, yet, as he
saw their faces turned towards Heaven, and their lips in motion, he felt
assured that they were praying for him. He became calm. He wrote letters
to his friends signifying his decision to be henceforth on the Lord's side. In
this way he sought to confess Christ. To these letters he received kind and
affectionate replies.
On Wednesday, November 11th, just two weeks from the time that he
was stricken down, he was carried to the Christian Chapel. As he passed
along he could see the people moving and receive visible tokens of their
recognition, but it was all in silence. People seemed gliding about so noise
lessly that to him it was as though he was among the moving dead. Passing
into the chapel, his feelings were very deep, as he entered the vestry among
the people he had a little time before so much despised. He wrote a brief
message upon his slate, which was read to the assembly. He then wished
to signify to the people his determination to live for the honour of God
by standing up before the congregation, and holding up his hands.
The appearance of Mr. Bourne at that time is described in the Christian
Messenger, edited by Mr. Cummings, as follows : "He was carried to the
church, his communications were read, after which, with streaming eyes, he
arose and lifted his arms towards Heaven, and expressed as best he could
his gratitude for God's mercy."
During this week he went several times to the chapel service in deep
emotion, but with his aphonia still unbroken. On the morning of Sunday,
November 15th, Mr. Bourne says he felt more anxious than ever to speak.
His distress, because he could not speak, was exceedingly great, and he
tried harder than ever to speak to his wife ; but he found it impossible.
When he considered he had the most free use of his tongue for everything
else but to speak with, and was unable to utter a single word, it seemed to
him more than he could endure.
He went to chapel twice, and what happened in the afternoon is thus
described. He wrote on the slate the following message, which was read to
the congregation by the minister :—
" I have been led to think, while sitting here, why I have been called
from the ranks of sinners, and I have been led to think that God has some
thing for me to do. Why I have come up here to the place of all others
which three weeks ago I would have shunned, I know not. But, oh ! how
marvellous are the ways of God ! But here I am, for what, I know not.
But, O God ! show me what Thou wouldst have me to do, and with Thy
help, O God, I will do it ! O sinners ! you cannot say this is excitement !
O no ! for I had not attended any of the meetings 1 No, I have heard no
preaching—no prayers ! No, all has seemed still to me ! Oh, if you cannot
believe now, you would not if one had risen from the dead ! Oh, I feel as
though the prayers of the dumb had been heard ! Why I feel as I do this
A Case of Double Consciousness. 227
afternoon, I cannot tell, but I do feel as though God was about to speak
to Westerly, in what way I know not—but oh, may God's will be done."
The effect produced by the reading of this communication upon the
audience was very great ; but the effect of what immediately followed was
extraordinary beyond description. At the suggestion made by Mr. Taylor
for him to rise as he had desired to do, he arose in the pulpit, with the most
evident calmness, and lifted up his hands toward Heaven. He then, feeling
happy, clapped his hands without hearing the least sound. He then
extended his hands apart, as at first, when, in an instant, every manner of
sound which came from the moving things of nature broke upon his ear,
distinct as a peal of thunder, and his tongue was unloosed instantly, his
countenance changed, and he exclaimed, in the hearing of the whole crowded
assembly, "Glory to God and the Lamb for ever." Big drops of perspiration
chased each other downward from his temples.
What immediately followed is described by the editor of the Christian
Messenger, who has before been referred to as being present, as follows :
' ' He fell upon his knees, and soon commenced praying in a soft, clear tone
of voice, and praising God for what He had done. He then gave a most
feeling exhortation to his friends, neighbours, and all present, urging them
to seek the salvation of their souls, and live for God. We do not think it
an exaggeration when we say there was not a dry eye in the place. How
wonderful are the works of the Almighty ! We were ready to exclaim, as
some said, when Jesus cured the sick of the palsy : ' We have seen strange
things to-day.' All seemed to be amazed, and many glorified God for His
mighty work, which He did in the presence of them all. Ifis hearing and
speech were both returned, and many hundreds witnessed a most solemn
vow from him to spend the remnant of his days in doing the will of God, so
far as he could know it." 1
1 Dr. Thurston, who attended Mr. Bourne, wrote the following letter about the
case to the Providence Journal :—
Westerly, R.I., November 20th, 1857.
On a visit in a neighbouringvillage, a day or two since, my attention was directed
to the articles in your journal of the 17th and 18th instants, relating to the " Singular
Case," the " Tough Story," the " Strange Story from Westerly." A singular case it
certainly was, but when shorn of the embellishments attached to the narrative it
ceases to be either a tough or a strange story.
The case of Mr. Ansel Bourne passed under my professional notice and care,
and, with your permission, I will give a truthful description of the same.
I have known Mr. Bourne for seven years past, and during that period he has
invariably conducted himself with propriety in the community, so much so as to
merit and retain the respect of his fellow citizens. In the early part of August last,
or rather about the middle of the month, Mr. Bourne suffered a coup de soleil, which
was of a very formidable character, and from its effects he nearly lost his life.
Having nearly recovered from the illness, he thought himself able to return to his
occupation, that of a house' carpenter. Contrary to my advice, and without my
knowledge, he left his home, and went to South Kingston to superintend the com
pletion of a dwelling-house he had been engaged upon. On the 14th of September he
was brought home again ill, and suffering from a severe cerebral disturbance. My
attendance was continued till the 2nd of October, and I heard nothing more of him
till the 28th of that month, when in haste I was summoned to him. On reaching his
bedside, I found him (perfectly insensible)—very much in the condition of a person
Q 2
22S R. Hodgson.
Mr. Bourne's use of his faculties from this day onwards has been
complete. But two weeks after the last event in the chapel, he had,
whilst in bed at night, a vision like the image of a man in form, only
with a face like the sun in brightness, lighting up the room, and say
ing, " Settle up your worldly business, and go to work for me." This
vision came back several times in the same night, he being all the
while wide awake, and speaking of it to his wife, who saw nothing.
The result of all these experiences was to make Mr. Bourne adopt the
profession of an evangelist. His ministrations were in great request in
many country towns, and for thirty years more or less he has worked
hard, conducting Sunday services, speaking at revivals, officiating at
funerals, and performing strenuously all the offices which the position
of an unattached minister demands, not forgetting, of course, to cite
his own personal experience, when necessary, to illustrate the power
of the Lord. During this time he often spoke as much as six or seven
times in the week ; and this, with the incessant travelling, he thinks
was not nearly as good a life for his health as the trade of a carpenter,
to which, within the last eight years, he has returned. His first wife
died in 1881, and his second wife, formerly Mrs. Belle Potter, whom
he married in 1882, disapproved of his absences from home in the
course of his preaching, so that he confined his labours to his imme
diate vicinity. On this account he became somewhat troubled, thinking
that he was not so active in religious work as he should be. This
thought that he was not " on the path of duty " weighed on his mind,
and he seems inclined to think that if he had been in active religious
in a syncope, swoon, or fainting fit. The pupils of his eyes were quite insensible to
light, widely dilated, and not contracting on the application of sudden and vivid
light. He was, in fact (perfectly insensible). Powerful counter-irritants were
applied, to which he gave no evidence of feeling. Various, and I may say, judicious
remedies were resorted to, which, as this is not intended to be a medical treatise, it is
not necessary to enumerate. Suffice it to say, that on my visit to him on the following
Friday I found consciousness had, in a measure, been restored. (His sight was then
evidently perfect, but there Btill continued great disturbance of his brain, confusion
of intellect, with vacant staring. I mention these circumstances, to show the fact
that Mr. Bourne's case is clearly attributable to adisturbed and disordered condition of
the functions of the brain, and, if possible, to do away with the absurd and super
stitious notion that there is anything marvellous or miraculous in the case.)
(The loss of hearing and of speech was owing to a paralysis of the motor nerve of
the tongue, known as the hypoglossal nerve, and of the auditory nerve.) The recovery
was owing to no wonderful nor miraculous power, but may be accounted for in a very
rational and philosophical manner. Mr. Bourne had been treated actively by electro-
galvanism and those remedies which intelligent physicians resort to in the treatment
of paralysis.
(The legitimate result of the treatment was recovery. It was not sudden nor
,unexpected. ) (The opinion expressed to the patient and his friends, that the remedies
used were well calculated to restore him, and, in my judgment, would do so, was
realised ; and to the sober-minded and rational portion of the community created no
emotions, save those of pleasure, in hearing of the restoration to comparative health of
A Case of Double Consciousness. 229
service, and therefore contented with his work, the experiences which
he subsequently underwent would never have occurred.
January 17th, 1887, he went from his home in Coventry, R.I., to
Providence, in order to get money to pay for a farm which he had
arranged to buy, leaving his horse at Greene Station, in a stable, expect
ing to return the same afternoon from the city. He drew out of bank
$551, and paid several small bills, after which he went to his nephew's
store, 121, Broad-street, and then started to go to his sister's house on
Westminster-street. This was the last that was known of his doings
at that time. He did not appear at his sister's house, and did not
return to Greene, where his horse remained for about three weeks,
and was finally taken away by Mrs. Bourne.
On Thursday, January 20th, the following paragraph appeared in
the Bulletin, of Providence, R.I., the information having been given
by the police :—
A Missing Preacher.
This morning Mrs. Bourne, the wife of Rev. Ansel Bourne, of Greene
Station, called at police headquarters and reported that her husband had
been missing since Monday last. Rev. Mr. Bourne is quite widely known
as an evangelist, and during the past twenty-five years he has carried on his
religious work in various parts of the United States. For some years, it is
said, he has been subject to attacks of a peculiar kind, which rendered him
temporarily insensible, and on some occasions he has remained in an
unconscious state for many hours. He came originally from the West, and
a fellow citizen, whose deprivations of speech and hearing had elicited sympathy and
regret. )
Mr. Bourne is a sensible and intelligent man, and views his own case in a rational
and Christian-like manner.
On conversation with him, since Sunday last, at which time his hearing and
speech were restored, I find that there is no desire on his part to encourage the
absurd opinion that he has been the subject of a miracle, but that he attributes his
recovery, by the blessing of God Almighty, the author and giver of every good and
perfect gift, to the means and measures adopted by his physician.
I am, sir, very respectfully yours,
William Torrey Thurston, M.D.
The following is an abridgment of a reply by the Rev. A. C. Comings to Dr.
Thurston's letter :—,
Dr. Thurston admits that such a case was known at Westerly, R.I., on the 28th
day of October, 1857, as that a man, whose name was Ansel Bourne, suddenly became
deaf, dumb, and blind ; that for seven years, as a citizen, he had enjoyed the respect of
his fellow citizens ; that the physician called to him found him in such a condition
that he judged him to be " perfectly insensible " ; that his eyes were insensible to
light ; that two days after the physician was first called to Mr. Bourne he found his
sight " evidently perfect " ; that Mr. Bourne's powers of speech and hearing were
restored, without the doctor's being present, on Sunday, November 15th, although he
assumes to know that it was not sudden, which Mr. Bourne affirms was sudden and
instantaneous, and to which hundreds also were witnesses ; that Dr. Thurston con
versed with Mr. Bourne, who then only attributed his recovery to the blessing of
God Almighty, and his physician. Mr. Bourne says that at that time he hesitated, not
230 R. Hodgson.
after these attacks he sometimes expressed an intention of returning to his
native State, and some of his friends think he may have started for the
West. Rev. Mr. Bourne was 60 years of age, and had grey head and long
grey beard. He was dressed in dark-coloured clothes, wore a brown and
blue neck-scarf and Derby hat. He was in Providence on Monday, but he
did not return to his home, and he has not been heard of since.
Notwithstanding, however, as I have already said, the publicity
given to the fact of his disappearance, no tidings whatever were
received of him till March 14th, eight weeks later. The account of
the morning of March 14th, as given to us by Mr. Bourne in reply to
our inquiries, agrees substantially with that given to Dr. Weir Mitchell
(who has taken much interest in the case and has kindly allowed us to
use his notes in the preparation of this paper) a year ago by Mr. Bourne,
and with that furnished to Dr. Weir Mitchell by Surgeon-General L. H.
Read, who was summoned to examine Mr. Bourne on the morning of
March 14th, soon after he regained his ordinary waking consciousness.
The contemporary newspaper accounts which we have seen are also in
substantial agreement with the results of our recent inquiries.
It appears that Ansel Bourne arrived at Norristown, Pa., about
February 1st, 1887, i.e., two weeks after his disappearance from Provi
dence, R.I. Under the name of A. J. Brown he rented a store-room at
252, East Main-street, from Mr. Pinkston Earle, and divided the room
into two by means of curtains. The rear portion of the room he filled
with furniture and used as a " general living " apartment, not only
desiring to attribute to the miraculous power of God what could by any possibility be
accounted for upon natural principles, and he was slow to assume that he had been
the subject of miraculous power. But his doubts upon that subject have since been
taken away.
In the letter of Dr. Thurston are distinct errors which Mr. Bourne would correct,
not wishing, however, to charge the Doctor with intentional falsehood, or intentional
misrepresentation ; but only as trying, " if possible, to do away with the notion that
there was anything marvellous or miraculous in the case."
Mr. Bourne has the kindest feelings toward Dr. Thurston, and, as a physician,
has confidence in him. But in relation to the subject now in question he must speak
the truth :—
1. The Doctor says that, on the 28th of October, he found Mr. Bourne " perfectly
insensible." To the Doctor this doubtless appeared so. But, although he was helpless,
he was perfectly sensible of all around him, which, deprived of his powers, he could
recognise. His thoughts were free and unrestrained.
2. Doctor Thurston says that " the loss of his hearing and speech was owing to a
paralysis of the motor nerve of the tongue, known as the hypoglossal nerve, and of the
auditory nerve." Had this been so he could not have used his tongue at will, for any
thing. But he had a free use of his tongue for everything but to speak with.
3. Dr. T. says—speaking of the medical treatment of the case : " The legitimate
result of the treatment was recovery, it was not sudden nor unexpected." The answer
to this must be plain and simple. The recovery took place in the presence of several
hundred persons, and was as sudden as thought. It was at a moment, and in a place
when and where several hundreds of persons all had their eyes fixed directly upon
him, and witnessed the immediate proofs of the fact.
A Case of Double Consciousness. 231
sleeping there, but preparing his own meals there also. The front por
tion of the room he stocked with notions, toys, confectionery, &c. These
he purchased and paid for in Philadelphia, which he visited each week
for the purpose of replenishing his stock. He fastened a sign to his
window, reading A. J. Brown. The room which he rented was part of
the house in which the Earle family were dwelling, but although they
came in daily contact with " Mr. Brown " there was nothing in his
manner or proceedings which suggested anything peculiar. He was quiet
in his behaviour, precise and regular in his habits, and paid his bills
promptly. He was especially punctual in the closing of his store at
9 p.m. on ordinary week-days, and at 10 p.m. on Saturday. He
attended the Methodist church on Sunday, and on one occasion, at a
religious meeting, he related an incident which he said he had witnessed
on a steamboat years previously on the passage from Albany to New
York, and his remarks were thought particularly relevant to the point
under consideration. In short, none of the persons who had any deal
ings with him seem to have conceived any suspicion that he was in any
unusual condition or labouring under any form of vagary.
On the morning of Monday, March 14th, about five o'clock, he
heard, he says, an explosion like the report of a gun or a pistol, and,
waking, he noticed that there was a ridge in his bed not like the bed
he had been accustomed to sleep in. He noticed the electric light
opposite his windows. He rose and pulled away the curtains and
looked out on the street. He felt very weak, and thought that he had
been drugged. His next sensation was that of fear, knowing that he
was in a place where he had no business to be. He feared arrest as a
burglar, or possibly injury. He says this is the only time in his life
he ever feared a policeman.
The last thing he could remember before waking was seeing the
Adams express waggons at the corner of Dorrance and Broad Streets, in
Providence, on his way from the store of his nephew in Broad-street to
his sister's residence in Westminster-street, on January 17th.
He waited to hear someone move, and for two hours he suffered
great mental distress. Finally he tried the door, and finding it fastened
on the inside, opened it. Hearing someone moving in another room he
rapped at the door. Mr. Earle opened it, and said, "Good morning, Mr.
Brown." Mr. B.: "Where am I?" Mr. E.: "You're all right." Mr. B.:
" I'm all wrong. My name isn't Brown. Where am 11" Mr. E. :
" Norristown." Mr. B.: "Where is that?" Mr. E.: "In Pennsylvania."
Mr. B.: "What part of the country?" Mr. E.: "About 17 miles west of
Philadelphia." Mr. B.: "What time in the month is it?" Mr. E.: "The
14th." Mr. B. : "Does time run backwards here? When I left home it
was the 17th." Mr. E. : "17th of what?" Mr. B.: "17th of January."
Mr. E. : " It's the 14th of March."
232 R. Hodgson.
Mr. Earle thought that "Mr. Brown" was out of his mind, and said
that he would send for a doctor. He summoned Dr. Louis H. Read,
to whom Mr. Bourne told the story of his doings in Rhode Island on
the morning of January 17th, and said that he remembered nothing
between the time of seeing the Adams express waggons on Dorrance-
street, on January 17th, and waking up that morning, March 14th.
" These persons," he said, " tell me I am in Norristown, Pennsylvania,
and that I have been here for six weeks, and that I have lived with
them all that time. I have no recollection of ever having seen one of
them before this morning." He requested Dr. Read to telegraph to his
nephew, Andrew Harris, then at 121, Broad-street, Providence, R.I.
Dr. Read telegraphed, " Do -you know Ansel Bourne 1 Please answer."
The reply came, " He is my uncle. Wire me where he is, and if well.
Write particulars."
Later, Mr. Harris journeyed to Norristown, sold the goods in the
store by auction, and settled up the business affairs of " Mr. Brown,"
who, as Mr. Bourne, returned with him to Rhode Island. Dr. Read
adds, in his account of the case which he furnished to Dr. Weir
Mitchell :—
" He said he was a preacher and farmer, and could not conceive why
he should have engaged in a business he knew nothing about, and never
had any desire to engage in it. When asked about his purchasing and
paying for goods, and paying freight bills, he said he had no recollec
tion of any such transactions.
"The family with whom he lived say that after the occurrence of that
morning he was greatly changed. He was annoyed at any reference to
his store, and never entered it afterward. He became despondent, took
no food, was unable to sleep, and became greatly prostrated both
physically and mentally, and from information recently received, those
conditions are said to continue.
" There are a number of circumstances connected with and pre
ceding the peculiar dual condition that have satisfied me that he is a
sincere man, and not an impostor."
Early in 1890 Professor James heard of the case from one of our
Associates, Mr. J. N. Arnold, who was the means of putting him
into communication with Mr. Harris and Mr. Bourne, and for whose
assistance in this and in other cases we are much indebted.
It will have been observed that no account was forthcoming of Mr.
Bourne's doings between the time of his disappearance from Providence
and his advent in Norristown two weeks later, and Professor James
conceived the idea that if Mr. Bourne could be hypnotised we might
obtain from him while in the hypnotic trance a complete history of the
whole incident, and at the same time, by post-hypnotic suggestion,
prevent the recurrence of any such episode. The circumstances had
4T-
A Case of Double Consciousness. 233
naturally left a painful and perplexed impression upon Mr. Bourne ;
he was anxious to have any light possible thrown upon his strange
experience, and he readily acquiesced in the proposals made for
hypnotisation.
Mr. Bourne is still living in Greene, R.I., and in accordance with
our arrangement 1 he came to Boston on five consecutive days, May
27th to 31st, and submitted to our investigations, returning each day to
Greene. Professor James and myself also visited Mr. Bourne and
hypnotised him in his home at Greene, R.I., on June 7th, 1890.
On May 27th, we questioned him in detail concerning his past life,
and ascertained, inter alia, that he was "mesmerised" once, about forty
years previously; he thinks that he was not "transformed" into anyone
else by the " mesmerist," but was made to go through various laugh
able performances. At 1.50. p.m. Professor James began to hypnotise
him—using passes — and he proved a sensitive subject, becoming
entranced in the course of a few minutes. He was unable to open his
eyes, to unclasp his hands, &c. No inquiry was made on this occasion
concerning the "Brown" incident; we determined simply that he
could be readily entranced and readily waked.
On the next day we endeavoured to obtain a detailed account from
him, while in the trance state, of his doings during the eight weeks,
January 17th to March 13th, 1887. The following statements2 were
elicited from him after he had been enjoined to go into a deeper
sleep and recall everything that happened on January 17th, .1887,
and afterwards.
He said that his name was Albert John Brown, that on January
17th, 1887, he went from Providence to Pawtucket in a horse-car,
thence by train to Boston, and thence to New York, where he arrived
at 9 p.m., and went to the Grand Union Hotel, registering as A. J.
Brown. He left New York on the following morning and went to
Newark, N. J., thence to Philadelphia, where he arrived in the evening,
and stayed for three or four days in a hotel near the Depot. He then
spent a week or so in a boarding-house in Filbert-street, about No.
1,115, near the Depot. It was kept by two ladies, but he could not
remember their names. He thought of taking a store in a small town,
and after looking round at several places, among them Germantown,
chose Norristown, about twenty miles from Philadelphia, where he
started a little business of 5 cent goods, confectionery, stationery, &c.
1 Mr. Bourne received his travelling expenses, and in addition the amount which
he would have earned by his ordinary work as carpenter. He arrived in Boston about
11 a.m. and left at 3 p.m.
2 1 here give a general summary of the various statements made by Mr. Bourne
in trance at our different sittings. The more detailed account of these is given in
Appendix A.
234 R. Hodgson.
He stated that he was born in Newton, New Hampshire, July 8th,
1826 (he was born in New York city, July 8th, 1826), had passed
through a great deal of trouble, losses of friends and property ; loss
of his wife was one trouble—she died in 1881 ; three children living,
—but everything was confused prior to his finding himself in the horse-
car on the way to Pawtucket ; he wanted to get away somewhere—he
didn't know where—and have rest. He had six or seven hundred
dollars with him when he went into the store. He lived very closely,
boarded by himself, and did his own cooking. He went to church, and
also to one prayer meeting. At one of these meetings he spoke about
a boy who had kneeled down and prayed in the midst of the passengers
on a steamboat from Albany to New York.
He had heard of the singular experience of Ansel Bourne, but did
not know whether he had ever met Ansel Bourne or not. He had been
a professor of religion himself for many years, belonged to the
" Christian " denomination, but back there everything was mixed up.
He used to keep a store in Newton, New Hampshire, and was engaged
in lumber and trading business ; had never previously dealt in the
business which he took up at Norristown. He kept the Norristown
store for six or eight weeks—how he got away from there was all
confused ; since then it has been a blank. The last thing he remembered
about the store was going to bed on Sunday night, March 13th, 1887.
He went to the Methodist church in the morning, walked out in the
afternoon, stayed in his room in the evening and read a book. He did
not feel " anything out of the way." Went to bed at eight or nine
o'clock, and remembered being in bed, but nothing further.
The statements made by Mr. Bourne in trance concerning his doings
in Norristown agree with those made by his landlord there and other
persons, but since Mr. Bourne, in his normal state, has heard of these,
they afforded no presumption in favour of the correctness of his state
ments concerning the first two weeks of his absence, those which
immediately preceded his arrival in Norristown. The register books
of the hotels had been destroyed, so that we were unable to trace his
travels in detail by finding the name "A. J. Brown " at the hotels
which he described himself as having visited. We have, however,
through the kindness of Mr. William Romaine Newbold, Lecturer on
Psychology in the University of Pennsylvania, ascertained that he
boarded for a week or more at " The Kellogg House," Nos. 1,605-7,
Filbert-street, Philadelphia. Mr. Newbold's report (see Appendix B)
seems to establish the general trustworthiness of Mr. Bourne's account
(in trance) of his doings before going to Norristown, although his
recollections may be inaccurate as regards such minor points as the
number of the boarding-house, &c.
Mr. Newbold thinks " the reason that Bourne found his way into
A Case of Doiible Consciousness. 235
' The Kellogg House ' is to be found in the fact that it is the first house
in Filbert-street going west from the Pennsylvania R.R. Depot that
displays a sign such as would be likely to attract a man of moderate
means but staid habits. Indeed, I believe that it is the first house in
that direction that has any sign at all, and the hotels directly in view
upon coming out of the station all have the general appearance of the
ordinary saloon. 'The Kellogg House' is plain and respectable in
appearance."
It may be worth mentioning here that the Grand Union Hotel,
where Mr. Bourne in trance states that he stayed in New York, is just
across the street from the station, and that, as we learn from Mrs.
Bourne, he had stayed there on his honeymoon trip with her in
September, 1882, and had previously been there with his sisters.
Additional corroboration of the accuracy of his trance-memory has
been furnished by statements which Mr. Bourne (in trance) made
concerning the money and other property in his possession at Norris-
town on the night of the 13th of March, 1887. We have satisfactory
reasons for regarding these statements as correct, but the details of the
circumstances connected with their verification involve matters which
we do not feel justified in publishing. It is enough to say that the
money which he took away on January 17th has been, in our opinion,
accounted for, though, prior to our inquiries made in consequence of
his trance-statements, there was an unexplained deficiency of about
$150.00.
It will be seen from the account which Mr. Newbold obtained of the
conversations which "Mr. Brown" had with Mrs. Kellogg and the waiter,
Mr. Jackson, that Mr. Bourne in his secondary state recollected certain
portions of his past life, and especially the character of his own trade.
His memory seems to have been considerably better during his eight
weeks' spontaneous "ambulatory trance" than it is now in the artificially
produced trance, and it may be worth while adding that it appeared
to be, as regards some details of his entire life, more obscure in our
latest hypnotisations than in our earliest. Many of our questions were
repeated again and again, and we have not recorded all these in full
detail, but the result suggests that the "Brown" state is much less
coherent now than in its first inception in 1887, and that the personality
of " Brown " is slowly disintegrating.
From the tests of the sense organs made upon Mr. Bourne, both
waking and entranced, it would seem that the only difference between
trance and waking as to sensibility is " a not very pronounced analgesia
during the trance." (See Appendix C, p. 255.)
We made attempts while Mr. Bourne was in his normal state to
evoke the "Brown" personality by automatic writing, <tc, and similarly,
while he was entranced, we endeavoured to " tap " Mr. Bourne, but
230 R. Hodgson.
our efforts were unavailing. So, likewise, were the attempts, by
prolonged passes, to produce a deeper trance in which the " Bourne "
and " Brown " personalities might be unified. We could get no
manifestation of either personality while the other was to the front,
not even the fulfilment of post-hypnotic suggestions, and at the end
of our experiments Brown and Bourne seemed as far as ever from
realising that each belonged to the other.
Taken altogether, the case is not a little perplexing. In the Brown
state, while forgetting some of the most important events of his past
life, including his own name and his second marriage, and the place of
his birth, he remembered the date of his birth correctly, the date of his
first wife's death, his trade, &c, and curiously enough, on one occasion
related an incident that occurred on a steamboat between Albany and
New York, and which in his Bourne state he also well remembers. In
trance, on May 28th, he recalled that he had children living, but on
June 7th he had no recollection of them. It is difficult to see along
what definite channels the temporary obliteration of Bourne's memories
proceeded, with, as consequence, his transformation into Brown. We
learn from Mr. Bourne that he never knew a Mr. A. J. Brown, and
never lived in Newton, N. H. Neither Mr. Bourne nor his wife
could suggest any clue which might lead to any explanation of his
adopting A. J. Brown as his name, or Newton, N. H., as his birth
place.1 But, indeed, we could hardly hope to trace the antecedents
of his peculiar actions in detail. And it remains now to mention
some additional facts which appear to throw some light upon both
of his remarkable experiences, at least to the extent of suggesting
that his case should be classified in its essentials as belonging to a
well-recognised type.
In reply to our inquiries (see also Dr. Hinsdale's report, Appendix
C, p. 254), he stated that he injured his eyesight as a young man by
too much study, working at night to educate himself. His vision
improved after his strange experience in 1857, and remained improved
until 1887. He used to have headaches frequently, now seldom. They
diminished as he began to lose his hair, which was very thick in 1857.
(Of course the loss of his hair may not have been the cause of the
diminution of his headaches.)
He stated also that he had been subject to the " blues " since child
hood, but these had not been so frequent for a year and a half. When
under them he did not want to see anybody or talk to anybody. These
would sometimes last a few hours, sometimes a week. Occasionally,
1 The postmaster at Newton, N. H., in reply to my inquiry, states that he has
"asked some of the oldest inhabitants, and none of them ever knew of any A. J.
Brown."
A Case of Double Consciousness. 237
at such times, when walking, he would find himself two or three
miles away from where he had last noticed himself as being.
Mrs. Bourne informed us that Mr. Bourne had had several " faint
ing fits " in the course of his life. She knew of four such occurrences.
The first of these happened about July, 1882, two months before her
marriage, in church. Mr. Bourne had gone into the pulpit just before
the service. He was not going to preach that day. It was very warm,
and, as Mr. Bourne was coming out of the pulpit, he fell down uncon
scious. The second occurred about December, 1882, when he fell off
a lounge in the room. On the third occasion he was standing by the
side of the carriage after harnessing the horses, when he suddenly fell
unconscious. This was in February, 1886. The last time occurred soon
after his return from Norristown in 1887. He was sitting in a chair
under a tree in the shade, and he slid out of the chair to the ground.
On these occasions he remained unconscious for several hours, probably
two hours at least and six hours at most.
These facts, taken in connection with his experiences in 1857
and 1887, suggest that Mr. Bourne has been subject to some form
of epilepsy, and that during his eight weeks' absence in 1887 he
was suffering from a post-epileptic partial loss of memory. I suppose
that on January 17th, 1887, he may have had a mild epileptic seizure,
and that " after the fit, he was a different person, although in the same
skin ; or, as the popular phrase is, the post-epileptic patient ' was not
himself.' " 1
In the Zoxst, that storehouse of valuable material, deeply instructive
even by the very errors which we now see were made by many of the
then upholders of hypnotic treatment, I have found two cases which are
worth mentioning in this connection. One of these is quoted by Dr.
Elliotson (op. cit, IV., p. 168) from Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach's
collection of trials. It is that of a "poor, innocent, industrious youth,"
named Sorgel, who was "subject first to violent epilepsy and then to
paroxysms of second consciousness, in which his faculties were deranged,
in which he had delusions and ungovernable criminal propensities, the
whole of which he was ignorant of upon returning to his ordinary state
of consciousness, though in his morbid state he remembered the occur
rences of his natural state." " In one of his two states, the diseased,
preternatural one, he was decidedly insane, and at length committed
a murder."
1 The Croonian Lectures on Evolution and Dissolution of the Nervous System, 1884,
by J. Hughlings Jackson, M.D. See also, by the same author, Ophthalmology and
Diseases of the Nervous System, 1885, and Temporary Mental Disorders after Epileptic
Paroxysms, in The West Riding Lunatic Asylum Reports, "Vol. V. The transition of
Felida X. into her secondary statehas suggested analogy with lepetit mat (Bypnotisme,
Double Conscience, et AlUratiom de la JPersonnalite', by Dr. Azam, p. 88).
238 R. Hodgson.
The other case is that of a lad named Russon, fifteen or sixteen
years of age (op. cit., I., pp. 340-349, and VIII., pp. 237-252), who, after
an epileptic fit, became deaf, dumb, and blind. Dr. Todd, of the King's
College Hospital, where the boy was taken on the day of his seizure
(April 2nd, 1843), says :—
" The only history we could obtain of him was that he had, about two
o'clock in the morning, walked into a coffee-shop in Drury-lane, where he was
found sitting in o»e of the boxes speechless and insensible. He was handed
over to the police, by whom he was brought to the hospital. The house
physician found him sitting erect on a chair, his eyes widely open and
motionless, pupils dilated, and presenting an undulating motion when the
candle was placed near them ; conjunctivae rather injected ; countenance
expressive of astonishment ; respiration easy, although a little quicker than
it ought to be ; power of deglutition perfect ; no spasm or twitching of any
single muscle. The most remarkable feature was his utter insensibility to
every external impression ; even the roughest treatment produced no effect
upon him ; the splashing of cold water, shaking, pinching, shouting in his
ears, seemed to make no impression. He had walked into the hospital
between two policemen ; whilst in the surgery of the hospital he never
altered his position in the slightest degree ; and after having been examined
in the surgery, he walked upstairs to his ward without dragging his feet,
but aided by the policeman."
******
" On the second day after his admission (the 4th) he made signs for
paper, and wrote an account of himself, stating that he had been subject to
fits, and giving the address of his father, and also giving a history of himself
during the day previous to his admission to the hospital. But it was very
remarkable that in writing he seemed to trust entirely to the guidance of
his sense of touch, for during the whole time he was writing he kept his eyes
averted from the paper, with a fixed gaze directed towards the ceiling, and
when a handkerchief was applied round his eyes it did not interfere with
his ability to write. But we could not obtain any satisfactory evidence that
he could see, or hear, or smell.
"After this he began to ask for food, and ate with the most extraordinary
eagerness, snapping at everything that came in contact with his lips, even
pieces of paper, which he chewed and swallowed. In the afternoon of this
day he began to see, and amused himself reading and writing, in both of
which he showed himself a proficient."
He still, however, remained deaf and dumb, and continued so in
the hospital nearly three weeks from his admission, after which his
father took him to Dr. Elliotson, who writes as follows :—
" The account given tome by the father was that the boy lived with
him at Twickenham, and supported himself by fetching small periodicals,
about twice a week, from London, and distributing them in the neighbour
hood. Rather more than three weeks previously, on the 1st of April, he
had gone as usual to No. 4, Brydges-street, Covent-garden, for books and
newspapers, and had to procure four dozen of Lloyd's Weekly London, New-
paper. He put two dozen upon the counter, two dozen in his handkerchief,
A Case of Double Consciousness. 239
with the books on the top of the latter, intending to put the two dozen
which were upon the counter on the top of the books, and tie all up together ;
but he forgot those on the counter, and tied up only the books and the
Lloyd's which were in the handkerchief. On arriving at home he found
only the two dozen of the Lloyd's, and was terrified at the idea of his
father's anger. His father returned home at eight, accused him of being
drunk, being himself by no means a teetotaller, and of having spent the
money in liquor. The boy protested he had tasted only water and tea the
whole day. They walked to Richmond, and the boy got on an omnibus
to go to London, hoping to find his Lloyd's where he had left them. He
remembers nothing more after this than that he one day ' awoke as from a
deep sleep, in a strange place ; began looking around him, tried in vain to
speak, and could not hear any noise at all. Seeing a board over the fireplace
with the words King's College Hospital upon it, he learnt where he was.'
The father ascertained that when he returned to the newspaper office his
papers had been carried off by someone, and no more were to be had till the
next day ; that he had gone to a neighbouring coffee-house, been seized with
a most violent epileptic fit, and carried by the police to King's College
Hospital, where he lay perfectly insensible for four days and five nights."
It was subsequently ascertained that he had had three epileptic fits
at about a year's interval within the previous four years. Dr. Elliotson
" mesmerised " him daily for about four weeks, at the end of which
time (on May 25th), on awaking from trance, it was found that he
had recovered his hearing. Dr. Elliotson immediately entranced him
again, and after a short time he made efforts to speak, finally succeeded,
and woke " in the midst of the efforts." He was then apparently per
fectly cured, and was taken into the household service of Mr. H. S.
Thompson, of Yorkshire, who had witnessed the cure. Three months
later, August 24th, the boy had another seizure, concerning which
Mr. Thompson wrote to Dr. Elliotson as follows :—
" You will be sorry to hear of our reverses. Thomas is again deaf and
dumb. Yesterday he was waiting at dinner, and the conversation turned
upon the effect music had upon insanity ; from that, I know not how, some
of the party began to compare the ills that flesh is heir to : deafness and
dumbness and loss of sight were mentioned among the rest, which produced
such a sudden excitement in the lad that he just got out of the room and
went into a fit. I immediately went and mesmerised him. In half an hour
he came to his senses and made signs that he would write, and that he
could not speak, or hear, or see. I mesmerised his eyes, when he opened
them, but the pupil was dilated and they appeared to be quite insensible to
light. I mesmerised him again, and he then got the use of his eyes, but he
still continued deaf and dumb. I have not mesmerised him for some time
lately, and I imagined the boy was quite well, but now they tell me that he
has been very odd the last day or two, walking about with his arms folded,
and that they thought his hearing was not quite so good. All this is
remembered now. I shall persevere in mesmerising him regularly, and hope
it will not last long. He is dreadfully low."
240 R. Hodgson.
On the same date, August 25th, the boy wrote, in a communication to
Mrs. Thompson :—
" I was not listening to you to hear what you were talking about, but I
heard you say deaf and dumb, and when you said it, it shook me all right
through me, and then I heard Mr. Thompson say blind, and then it shook me
again the same with a most thrilling pain right through me, and I felt myself
trembling and I tried to get out of the room, but I do not know that I did
get out of the room, and I remembered no more till I found myself in bed,
and I tried to open my eyes and speak, but I could not, nor I could not hear
any noise, but I felt someone mesmerising me, as I thought ; and then I
wanted to go out and they would not let me go at first, but they let me go
afterwards into the pantry, and then I wrote and told you what I felt and
how I was ; but I hope you will pardon me for taking this liberty to write to
you."
On August 29th, Mr. Thompson announced his recovery to Dr. Elliot-
son in the following letter :—,
"August 29th. I cannot help writing you a line to-night, as I am certain
you will be glad to hear the lad has recovered his hearing and speech ; to-day
I mesmerised him still more, and dropped mesmerised water into his ears.
He wrote that he heard a roaring like a waterfall, and a sensation as if I
thrust a hot iron into his ear. However, though I continued to mesmerise
him for an hour and a half, there was no symptom of his recovering. After
he left me the sensation of heat increased, and he began to feel acute pain
in his ears and back of his head, and he came to me in hopes I should be
able to relieve him. I mesmerised him, and he was so violent that another
man and myself could scarcely hold him down. . . . He at last fell
into a quiet state, and after he had remained so a quarter of an hour I blew
in his face, when he awoke. At first he was not aware that he could either
hear or speak, and was much astonished to find that he was restored."
The resemblance between this boy's second experience and that of
Ansel Bourne in 1857 is very striking. It was doubtless in each
case the result essentially of a self-suggestion, and it is perhaps not
altogether unwarrantable to assume that the cure in both cases would
have been a much speedier one had the subject been hypnotised and
treated after the " suggestion " methods of Professor Bernheim.
A case of double personality, apparently very similar in some
respects to that of Mr. Bourne, was reported by Professor Proust, of
Paris, and published last year in the Revue de VHypnotisme. An
abridgment of his account is given in Appendix D. ( p. 255). Here,
also, the subject in the spontaneously occurring " secondary state "
wandered off for days and weeks at a time, and knew nothing after
wards of his doings. His memory of them was revived by hypnotism.
Another case which I have thought it worth while to place in the
Appendix (E., p. 256) is entitled by Dr. Trowbridge, who reported it,
"A Case of Epilepsy with Double Consciousness."
Whether Mr. Bourne's case is an instance of " epilepsy " —
A Case of Double Consciousness. 241
" masked epilepsy "—or not, it suggests a group of " states " which are
worthy of the most profound comparative study, viz., sleep, hypnosis,
narcosis, and post-epileptic mental disturbance, in connection with the
last of which I need hardly indicate the possibly great importance of
"suggestive therapeutics."
APPENDIX A.
Detailed Account of Sittings, &o.
May 28f/i. R. Hodgson and Dr. Morton Prince present in the morning,
the latter taking notes. A. Bourne hypnotised by It. H.—Passes.
Q. : " What is your name 1" A. : " Ansel Bourne."
More passes were made, and he was enjoined to go into a deeper sleep
and recall everything that happened on the 17th of Jaisjiary, 1887, and after
wards. After a short interval : Q. : "Where did you go from Providence 1 "
At this stage a curiously perplexed look came over Mr. Bourne's
countenance, suggesting a struggle for remembrance. A. : "Went to
Pawtucket." Q. : " How did you get there? " A.: " Went in a horse-car."
Q. : "Why did you go to Pawtucket?" A.: " Don't know." Q. : "Where
did you go then ? " A.: " Took train to Boston. " Q. : "What time?"
A.: " Soon after getting to Pawtucket, about one o'clock." Q. : "What
line?" A.: " New York and New England. " Q. : "What did you do in
Boston?" A.: "Nothing." Q. : " Did you see any acquaintance there 1 "
A. : " No." Q. : " Why did you go to Boston? " A. : "Don't know." Q. :
"Where did you go then?" A. : " New York." Q. : " What time ? " A. :
" Three o'clock. New York and New England Railroad." Q. r " The same
day?" A. : "Yes." Q. :" What time did you get to New York ? " A.:
"Nine o'clock." Q. : "What did you do there ? " A. : "Put up at the
Union Hotel, just opposite the Depot." Q.: "Did you register?" A. :
"Yes." Q. : "How?" A.: "A. J. Brown. That's my name." Q. :
"Whatisthe 'A' for?" A.: "Albert." Q. : "And the 'J'?" A.:
"Named after my brother John." Q. : "Your name is Albert John
Brown?" A: "Yes." Q. :" When were you born ? " A. :" 1826, July
8th, Newton, N. H." Q. : "Do you mean you put up at the Grand Union
Hotel?" A. : "Yes, the Grand Union Hotel." Q. : "Did you have
supper there?" A. : "No,—went to bed." Q. : "Were you alone?"
A: "Yes." Q. : " Did you have breakfast there ? " A.: "Yes."
Here Dr. P. and R. H. spoke about waking him up, as they had an
important engagement at 12 noon, and he said, in reply to further questions,
that he was getting " mixed up." Being then asked what his name was, he
replied " Bourne." He was then waked, 11.55 a.m.
May 28th. Afternoon. Professor William James, M.D., and R. Hodgson
present, the latter taking notes.
1.30 p.m. Hypnotised by W. J. In reply to inquiries about what he had
done after he had been in Dorrance-street, said he had already told it.
Being asked to repeat it, and in reply to inquiries, said he went to
R
242 It. Hodgson.
Pawtucket, went from Pawtucket to Boston, from Boston went to New York
by train. Didn't know where he was going. . . . Wanted to get away
somewhere, didn't know where . , . Went to hotel in New York-
Grand Union—stayed there till next day. Got his breakfast there. Left
there about noon. Went to Newark, N.J. Got there an hour afterwards or
so. Went from there to Philadelphia.
Got to Philadelphia in the evening—went to hotel close to Depot. Stayed
there three or four days. Registered A. J. Brown, "A" for Albert, "J "
for John. Went there for rest.
J. : "What do you remember before going to Philadelphia, Mr. Brown?"
B. : "Passed through great deal of trouble. . . . Losses of friends, losses
of property."
Had heard of Ansel Bourne. . . . Had heard years ago of his
singular experience. Didn't know whether he had ever met him or not.
About 60 years old. Had been all over the country ; engaged in heavy
business, lumber and trading business. Used to keep store in N.H., in
Newton.
Trouble away back yonder (pointing). All mixed up, confused. Don't
like to think of it.
Can't recall name of hotel in Philadelphia. Went to boarding-house
after hotel, to have rest. Was at boarding-house a week or so, in Filbert-
street, near Depot—thinks 1,115—two women kept it. (Respectable place ?)
Yes. . . . Dozen, 15 or 20 people there. . . . Some young people
there. Didn't meet any acquaintances there. Spent time reading papers
and seeing city. Theatre one evening ; he thinks two evenings. Felt tired
and beat out all the time. Went to church—not to prayer meeting. Went
to bed early.
Started little business, to amuse himself—kind of store. Confectionery
goods, 5 cent goods, stationery. J. : "Where was the store?" B. :
" Norristown. ... 20 miles from Philadelphia. Was looking round
at several places. Thought of taking store week or ten days before he
did it. Not that kind of trading engaged in before." J. : "How did
you succeed?" B. : "Had judgment of my own. No trouble about it.
Succeeded very well." Had six or seven hundred dollars when he went
into the store. Lived very closely. Boarded by himself, did his own
cooking. Most of the time low-spirited. . . . Troubles of a lifetime.
. . . Loss of his wife, one trouble. Asked what her maiden name was,
said he didn't want to call her up. Lived round at different places with
her. Three children were living. Doesn't recollect thinking about them
when he went off. . . . All disagreeable remembrance. . . . Wife
died in 1881. . . . Everything's mixed up.
J.: " Who was your landlord in Norristown ? " B. : "Read—store was
on Main-street." Thinks number was 255. Made no—what you may
call—acquaintances there. . . . Would eat some steak and ham or
something of the sort. Health was poor during that time. No particular
diseases. Doesn't remember how well he slept. Went to no places of
entertainment. Went to church. Went to one prayer meeting. J.: "Did
you speak ? " B. : "Yes, I think I said something once. Told them about
a boy that prayed on a steamboat coming down from Albany to New York.
A Case of Double Consciousness. 243
He kneeled down and prayed in the midst of the passengers." J. : "Was
Mr. Bourne on the boat at that time V B. : "All mixed up."
J. : "Is Mr. J. A. Brown a relative of yours ?" B. : "No. I don't
think so." J. : " Tell us anything more that you can recollect." B. : "It
was a terrible thing. It's all mixed up—mixed up with two or three things.
. . . Mixed up with other parties some way. There's a coming out of it
some way or other, I don't know how." J. : " Who were the other parties ? "
B. : "Don't know. . . . Can't remember names of ladies at boarding-
house in Philadelphia. They called him by his name, Mr. Brown. All mixed
up. Can't get back of going to Pawtucket. Remember leaving Providence.
First thing, or last thing, or whatever you've a mind to call it, was on board
of horse-car going to Pawtucket in North Main-street. . . . Something or
other back of that, can't recall. Had several hundred dollars. " J.: "Wasn't
that a lot of money?" B. : "I've carried a lot of money at different times."
J. : " Did you marry again after loss of first wife ? " B. : " Something or
other there I can't tell you. Mixed up." J.: " Ever dream of Norristown
experience?" B. : "There's something there. I wish I could get at it. "
J. : " How long did you keep store in Norristown?" B. : "Some six or
eight weeks. . . . How I got away from there is all confused. . . . Since
then has been a blank." J. : "Any other periods of life you can remember
like this one ? " B. : "Got into a spot—don't know how I come there—
both ends are blank."
J. (Pricks right hand) : " Feel anything ? " B. : "Feel you touch my
hand." (Hands apparently partially anaesthetic.) J. : "Open your eyes
and look at me. . . . Do you know me 1" B. : "Have seen you before."
Suggestions given to feel well, not to be troubled, to have no headache,
&c., and then waked up.
May 29th. Present, Professor W. James and R. Hodgson. Hypnotised
by W. J. at 11.30 a.m. About two minutes after closing his eyes, pulse 65.
J. : " What have you been thinking of since the conversation of
yesterday?" B. : "Nothing special." J.: " What were we talking about
yesterday?" B. : "Oh, back a while ago." J. : " Tell me where you left
off." B. : "I told you about starting from Dorrance-street, going to Paw
tucket, and Boston, and New York, and Newark, and Philadelphia. " J. : " What
hotel did you stay at in Philadelphia ? " B. : "I don't know the name of
it ; about opposite City Hall in Filbert-street." J. : " What was the number of
the boarding-house where you stayed?" B. : " The boarding-house was a
little further up, near the station, about 1,115." J. : "What made you go
there?" B. : "I found it myself. There was a sign out." J. : "What
persons did you meet in Philadelphia?" B. : "Can't give any names of
persons there. Done business with them, and have the bills." J. : "Have
you ever heard of the Reverend Ansel Bourne ? " B. : " I've heard of him.
I don't know as I ever heard him preach."
In answer to further inquiries he said that he, Brown, had been a
professor of religion for many years—belonged to the " Christian " denomi
nation. " Back there all mixed up. Seems as if I was sot right down there
in Dorrance-street without knowing where I came from. . . . What
became of the store I don't know anything about."
E 2
244 R. Hodgson.
He did not see anything about Bourne in the papers, did not write to
anybody except business letters. The business was in connection with
ordera given for goods in the store. He bought a suit of clothes in
Philadelphia.
W. J. then told him to open his eyes and stand up, and introduced him to
R. H, whom he says he does not remember. Asked to write his. name
several times, he writes A. J. Brown, in large hand, three times. Told to
write it smaller, he does so. He is then told to write William James, Ansel
Bourne, and Richard Hodgson. After doing this, he is told to sit down
again, and a pencil and block-book are placed in his hands to see whether
there is any tendency to automatic writing.
J. : "Do you remember any past time when you couldn't speak, couldn't
hear, and were blind?" B. : '"It's all dark there." J.: "Troubles any
clearer in your mind now ? " B. : "No." J.: " What were they ? " B. :
" Losing friends. . . . By death." J.: "How about the family ties
there?" B. : "Mixed up. . . . A terrible whirl there somewhere."
While W. J. holds Brown in conversation, R. H. tries to get B. to write,
whispering "Ansel Bourne, write down what you last remember seeing in
Providence, January 17, 1887." This is repeated several times, and appears
somewhat to disturb Brown. Finally Brown catches the question distinctly
and says, "It's all dark back of that." No indication of any tendency to
write.
W. J. tests for anaesthesia with pin. Sensibility of back of head and
fingers seems unnaturally small. Thighs tested : the left thigh when awake (he
says) is ' ' numb " from having had a beam fall on it. He feels and recognises
pin pricks on right thigh now ; on left thigh he first calls them " touches "—
then "pins." No change apparent from waking state. Pupils contract well
to light.
W. J. sits quietly talking with him and making suggestions about his
head feeling well and clear and his mind cheerful and young when he goes
away from here. J. has told him before that ho was in Hodgson's room in
Boston. He now suddenly says, "Do you say this is Boston ? " "Yes,
Mr. Hodgson's room, 5, Boylston-place." B. : "Where do you live?"
J.: "Cambridge." B. :" Cambridge 1 Isn't that the place where Parker—
Parkman ?—was murdered ? " J. : "Yes, Webster and Parkman. Where
were you at that time ? " B. : " Oh ! I don't seem to know—Rhode Island,
perhaps."
At about 12.35 Hodgson brings in dinner and "Brown" eats with
apparent gbod appetite roast beef, potatoes, omelet, and so forth, but still
with a dejected manner. Asked whether he would like some wine or beer,
he replies that he never touches liquor. Whilst eating, Hodgson asks again
if he made any money by his store. He turns to James quickly and asks :
"What became of that store, any way?" J.: "It is let to someone
else." B. : " I haven't been settled with. I don't seem to get right about
what became of that store. There's something back there." J. : "Don't
try to remember." B. : "It troubles me." And he sits after dinner with
head in hand, "trying to think up."
12.58 p.m. J. seats him in the arm-chair again and makes passes over
him for three-quarters of an hour. After waiting five minutes longer J. asks
A Case of Double Consciousness. 245
him how he felt. B : " Been asleep. . . . Feel calm. . . . Wish
I could get out of this—get out one way or the other—see something some
where." J. : " Do you feel perplexed?" B. : "I'm hedged in either way,
can't get back and go-ahead. " J. : " Still troubling yourself ? " B. : "Yes.
I can't help it." J. : "Did you feel the same as this while you kept the
store?" B. : "I wasn't cheerful. . . . What troubles me now is how I
got at Dorrance-street and what came of the store." J. : " But while there,
were you troubled like this 1" B. : "No."
J. gives him post-hypnotic suggestion, viz., to write details of leaving
Providence, &c. , after being waked up.
J. asks if he remembers being mesmerised many years ago. He says
that he doesn't remember anything about it.
J. wakes him at 2.5. p.m., after enjoining freedom from perplexity on
waking up, &c. He looks at his watch and is surprised at the time. J. :
" Do you feel hungry ? " B. : "No. I don't feel so hungry as I did when
I come."
Pencil and block-book are placed in his hands on the table. We talk
with him. He tells us that he is not a nervous or excitable man in any
way, not afraid of anybody. "There's plenty of men can whip me, but
I'd tell them what I think and be cool about it, and not be afraid of
them."
No writing. (Post-hypnotic suggestion not fulfilled.)
Friday, May 30th, 1890. Present, William James, M.D., Edward
Cowles, M.D., and William Noyes, M.D. Hypnotised by W. J., at 12.6
p.m. Six passes made, and subject is in a deep sleep.
W. J. : "What's your name now?" Long hesitation and no answer.
W. J. : " You can't open your eyes. What's your name ? " A. B. :
"Brown." W. J. : "You were Brown yesterday. You are not yet Brown. "
Makes many passes up and down. "Let go of Brown. Haven't come to
Brown yet. Now what's your name?" A. B. : "It is mixed up now."
W. J. : "You are no longer Brown. Now who are you?" No answer.
W. J. : "Now give me your name." A. B. : "Got two or three names, I
guess." (More passes.) W. J. : "Give me some of the names, not all of
them." No answer. (More passes.) W. J. : " Now what's your name ? "
Subject sighs.
12.10 p.m. W. J. : "What are you thinking about? What's your
right name now?" A. B. : "Brown, haven't got any other name." W. J. :
"I will count eight, and I want yon to wake up at the word six. One,—
two,—three,—four,—five " Subject rubs his eyes, and leans forward on
right hand.
W. J. : "You are Ansel Bourne?" A. B. (awake): "Yes." W.J. :
"Shut your eyes and continue Ansel Bourne. You are not Brown yet."
A. B. (eyes shut—hypnotised) : "No." W. J. : "You are going to be
Brown by-and-by. I want you to do something for me. I will give you a
pad and pencil, and you will write something down on paper. You'll talk, and
the talking won't interfere. What's your name now?" A. B. : "Mixed
up." (Makes no attempt to write on paper.) W. J. : "Do you remember
our talk? " A. B. : "Yes. Where am I now?" W. J. : "In Mr. Hodgson's
246 R. Hodgson.
rooms. .Here, is a gentleman I, want to introduce to you, Dr. Cowles, of
Somerville."
E. C. : "What is troubling you?" A. B. : "Something I have been
trying to get out for a long time—where I am and where I am going to. "
E.C. : "Where are you?" A. B. : "He says I am in Boston." W. J. :
" Tell us where you went after you left home." (All his replies to this ques
tion were not taken down, as W. J. stated that they were the same as given
yesterday.) A. B. : "Can't tell the name of the hotel in Philadelphia. It
was a small hotel opposite the City Hall." W. J. : " What was your wife's
maiden name ? " A. B. : "Wish I could remember things, but I can't."
W. J. : " Did you ever have any other wife ? " A. B. : "Everything is all
mixed up. Have been here right along. Terribly mixed up mess. Would
like to get at something or other."
W. J. : " How did you come to pick out Norristown ? Did you go to
other places?" A. B. : "Yes, several other places. Saw in a paper a
notice of a store to let. Was an empty store. What has become of that
store, and where did I stop ? I went to Germantown to look round. Wanted
to do something. Thought I might want to locate." W. J. : "How did
you find out how to stock your store?" A. B. : " Made inquiries. Saw
advertisements and displays of goods."
12.22 p.m. W. J. : "Did you make any acquaintances? What were
the names of some of your friends there 1" A. B. : " Read was the name
of one man in Norristown. Made no other acquaintances." W. J. : " What
church did you go to 1 What was the pastor's name ? " A. B. : " Went to
Methodist church. Pastor's name forgotten." W. J. : "What was the state
of your mind? What did you read ? " A. B. : " Read the papers. Don't
remember reading books." W. J. : " How did you get your store stocked? "
A. B. : " Went to a dozen places to get it stocked. Kept candies, con
fectionery, nuts, and 5 cent articles."
May 31st. Present, Professor William James, R. Hodgson, and Dr.
Morton Prince.
While H. is talking to Bourne, not yet entranced, J., sitting close by
Bourne's side, addresses him as Brown and tells him to lift his hand if he
hears him. Bourne hears and repeats some of the words, the "Brown"
consciousness apparently not being reached.
J. tells Bourne that after he gets into the hypnotic sleep he will write
what he did during the time he was away from home as Brown. He is then,
about 11.15 a.m., hypnotised into the Brown state, and pencil and block-book
are put into his hand. After about 10 minutes' waiting, J. asked if he didn't
feel like writing ? B. : "I've nothing to write about."
J. gives him the suggestion : "When H. blows his nose and coughs, you
must say that he ought to close the window and not have a draught." He
is then waked up.
Note.—When B. is waked up by being told to count 8 and wake up when
he has counted 6—he does not count beyond 6. The suggestion seems thus
not to continue into the waking state.
In a few minutes H. blows his nose and coughs. Bourne takes no notice.
(Post-hypnotic suggestion not fulfilled.)
A Case of Double Consciousness, 247
11.45 a.m. Hodgson entrances him. In a couple of minutes says,
" What's your name ? It's Bourne, isn't it ? " " No ! it's Brown." Wakes
him up again. Da capo : he is Brown at the first touch of trance.
J. entrances him—into Brown state—and asks him about his store in
Norristown. J. : "Have you got any gum-drops?" B. : "Out of gum-drops
now." J. : " What do you sell most of ? " B. : " I sell most of toffee."
J. tells him to open his eyes and stand up, and asks for a quarter-pound
of toffee. He says, "Where is it ?" J. gives him a piece of stone, and tells
him that it is toffee. He asks for scales. A book is shown to him. He
says, " That's not scales. " A pair of scales for weighing letters and books
is pointed out to him, and he seems partially satisfied. But he refuses to
accept stone as candy, or as maple sugar; says, "Someone's been here.
Things are all mixed up." He describes a bag, hat, &c, on table correctly,
when asked what they are.
J. asks about the landlord of the store. "Mr. Read is landlord."
J. tells him it is time to go to bed, and asks him what he feels like doing.
'' Like going to bed." In reply to questions, says that he eats sometimes
once, sometimes twice a day—didn't have appetite for more. . . . Made
two or three dollars a day by the store. He purchased from a firm in
Market-street. J. : " What made you take up this business 1 " B. : " That
I can't tell you." J. says: "You're not in the store, you're back here
in Mr. Hodgson's room. What's the last thing you remember about that
store ? " B. replies : Going to bed—Sunday night—had been to Methodist
church in the morning. Walked out in the afternoon ; stayed in his room
in evening—read a book he had there. Took a meal after meeting. "Don't
know as I felt anything out of the way." Went to bed at 8 or 9 o'clock;
remembers being in bed. "That's the last thing I do remember."
(The next experiment was made for the purpose of determining if he would
spontaneously wake as Bourne after the suggestion that he was in bed in his
store on the night of March 13th.) J. : "We took you out of your bed and
brought you here. Now you're back in your bed again, you'll have a good
sleep, and then you'll go on the right way. . . . It's getting on towards
morning. Time to wake up pretty soon. " Dr. Prince says, after about five
minutes, when B. 's eyes are open: "Are you waking up? It's the last
morning. Are you going to get up ? " Two or three minutes later J. asks
what he is thinking of. He still calls himself Brown, and is perplexed
about the store.
He is told again that he is asleep in his store on the night of March 13th.
An explosion is produced by a small powder-cap near his ear. No result.
On being questioned, he still maintains that he is Brown.
J. wakes him by upward passes without injunction ; then asks him about
the process of waking. He says that he woke "slowly," and on being
questioned says that he prefers waking quickly.
J. then hypnotises him again, and tells him to wake up when he counts
up to 6, and that he is to keep on counting up to 8. He fulfils this
injunction (but he may not have been fully awake till he counted 8).
June 7th, 1890. We visited Ansel Bourne at his home in Greene, R.I.,
arriving about 10.10 a.m.
248 R. Hodgson.
Mrs. Bourne stated that Mr. Bourne had taken two bank-books of his
children away with him, on January 17th, 1887, after drawing some of the
money, but had brought the books back in his pocket just as they were when
he took them away. . . .
About 10.45 a.m. A. B. hypnotised by W. James. J. : "What is your
name 1" B. : " Brown." J. : "You've seen me before. How long is it
since you saw ms ? " B. : " A few minutes."
J. tells him that he is in Ansel Bourne's house, &c, introduces him to
Mrs. Bourne, and asks him to inform Mrs. B. of his doings since leaving
Providence on January 17th, 1887. He gives the same account as before.
Mrs. B. : " Were you ever to Greene ? " B. : "What Greene ? " Mrs. B. :
" Greene in Coventry, R.I." B. : "Never was there."
In reply to questions, says that he does not remember anything about
bank-books in Providence Had no money in the bank, and
made no presents to anyone. Had somewhere about $600.00 when he got to
Philadelphia. Spent most of it in goods and furniture for the store.
To the question from whom he hired the store, he replied, "Prom Read."
Asked if he knew Pinkston Earle : "I don't know but that was his name "
(i.e., the name of the person from whom he hired the store). Said that the
goods in the store were worth about $400.00. He had "no family," "no
children out West.." .... " All mixed up. " Mrs. B. : " Don't you
remember the young man out to West Shelby and two children [B. 's grand
children]?" B. : "No. Wish I could remember." He remembers being
married, and that his wife died many years ago, but nothing more about it.
[The following experiments were made for the purpose of unifying the
" Bourne " and " Brown " consciousnesses—without success.]
J. then declares to him that his life and Bourne's are closely connected,
carries him back to Norristown, and tells him how he woke up hearing a
report like a pistbl and found that he was in a strange bed. That was
because he was in a bed that Ansel Bourne did not know, &c. J. explains to
him how he got the money in Providence which he found in his possession
on the Pawtucket horse-car. When asked if he remembers, B. replies, "Like
a dream."
J. : " Now write this : ' I went to sleep in my store on Sunday night.'
The next thing you are going to write is : 'I woke and found that I was Ansel
Bourne.' You'll wake when you come to was, but you'll go on writing
' Ansel Bourne.' " A. B. writes as suggested, and wakes up after the word
was, just as he is starting the "A" of "Ansel." He stops writing. J.
tells him to go on and write Ansel Bourne. He does so, but seems not
to remember what he wrote before this.
We then tell him, in the Bourne state—for the first time—of his revela
tions concerning the first two weeks after his disappearance from Providence.
J. entrances him again, telling him to repeat the following sentence : "I
drew the money from the bank when I was Ansel Bourne, and got into a
Pawtucket horse-car, and became A. J. Brown, and started on the Norris
town expedition." J. tries to carry his memory continuously along from
the Bourne into the Brown state, telling him that he must repeat the
sentence and that he will pass into the ' ' Brown " state when he gets to the
word Pawtucket, and that he will remember what he has been saying just
A Case of Double Consciousness. 249
before. A. B. passes into the " Brown " state at the word Pawtucket, but
does not complete the sentence, and do3s not remember the first part of the
sentence.
J. then suggests to him that he is in the store at Norristown, and tries
again the experiment with writing ("I went to sleep in my store," &c.,)
described above. He wakes as before, and when asked if he remembers
about the store, replies, "Like a dream."
He is again told to repeat the sentence, "I drew the money from the
bank," &c, to pass into the " Brown " state at the word " Pawtucket," &c.
He becomes " Brown " duly, but again fails to recall what has preceded.
B. is then told to repeat orally the words used in the previous writing
experiments ("I went to sleep in my store," &c), and to wake up at the
word iouke and remember the first part of the sentence. He wakes at the
word suggested, but again fails to recall the first part of the sentence. 12 noon.
1.45 p.m. Mrs. Bourne takes B.'s right hand in hers, and J. entrances
B. Brown does not remember Mrs. Bourne.
J. wakes B., who is still holding Mrs. B.'s hand, and then tells Mrs. B.
to put him to sleep. J. tells B. that Mrs. B. will put him to sleep by
counting up to 6. She counts, and at "6" Bourne passes into " Brown,"
but again does not know Mrs. Bourne.
This experiment repeated again twice, and each time "Brown" is
emphatically told that Mrs. Bourne is his wife, that he is Ansel Bourne,
that this is his own house, &c. ; but he seems completely unable to realise it,
shakes his head when told that Mrs. Bourne is his wife.
3.10 p.m. He is entranced by R. Hodgson, who tells him before the
trance that he will remain Ansel Bourne after being hypnotised. Unavailing.
He passes at once into the "Brown" state. R. H. then enumerates the chief
incidents of Bourne's life, telling "Brown" that he is "Bourne" and that
he remembera these events. This is repeated several times, and Mrs. B. and
W. J. reiterate the same circumstances. " Brown," however, reaches
nothing more than a faint remembrance of the year of his birth, of the fact
of his first marriage, and of the death of his first wife.
3.25 p.m. Hypnotised by W. J., who makes passes for an hour, 3.30—
4. 30, without any apparent effect in deepening the trance. Further attempts
to produce a unity of memory between the " Brown " and " Bourne " states
unsuccessful.
Waked at 4.35 p.m.
June 7th. Between 1 and 2 p.m. we called upon Mr. Tillinghast
(retired farmer) and Colonel C. S. Brown (grocer), residents of Greene, who
stated that Mr. Ansel Bourne had always been highly respected in the com
munity as a steady and industrious man. They had no explanation to give
of his mysterious absence in 1887, though they did not attach any blame to
Mr. Bourne. They had "heard of such things happening before to people."
There were a few persons in the village who thought there was " something
wrong " about it, and who in consequence did not respect Mr. Bourne so
highly as they had done previously, but the general opinion was that no
250 E. Hodgson.
blame attached to Mr. Bourne. Previous to the incident Mr. Bourne had
been universally respected.
APPENDIX B.
Report by Mr. Wm. Romaine Newbold.
(Verification of Mr. Bourne's statements in trance.)
4,228, Chester-avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., November 22nd, 1890.
I went to look up that house on Filbert-street on the 20th inst., and
although I wrote out a full account of the matter at the time so as not to
lose anything by waiting, I have not been able to get the time to write it out
in a legible form for you to read. I merely copy here what I wrote on
Thursday.
I inquired at Nos. 1,115, 1,315, 1,509, 1,511, 1,605-7, Filbert-street, and
found that the last-named house, "the Kellogg house," Nos. 1,605-7 was
kept by two sisters, Mrs. Kellogg and Miss Lyon. I saw Mrs. Kellogg,
learned that she had been there for about five years ; kept a register now
but had only done so recently, and had no account-books, receipted bills, or
any written paper that could tend to show whether any given person had
been there in the early part of 1887. I then produced the picture. She
said it looked familiar and grew more familiar as she looked at it, but she
could not recall where or when she had seen the person it represented.
Asked the name. I excused myself from mentioning the name for the
present, saying that I would like to see whether anyone in the house could
remember it. I asked for her sister. Her sister was out ; she was very
sure her sister would not remember him ; their waiter, Franklin Jackson by
name, would be far more likely to ; she would show him it. Went out and
soon returned, saying that Jackson remembered the face perfectly but could
not remember the name. She asked the name again. "A. J. Brown," I said.
She thought some time but could not recall it at all. I was interested in
him, I said, because he had at one time lost consciousness of his own identity,
and it was believed that he had stayed at their house at the time. She could
not remember him.
I asked to see Jackson. He was very old, she said, and was lying down ;
still she would ask him. Presently Jackson appeared. He is a coloured
man, seventy-two years of age, and seemed very intelligent. Did he re
member that man ? Perfectly. How long was he there ? About a week,
he thought. Did he remember anything about him ? Very little. He was
very quiet ; they thought he was like a minister. Jackson asked his name.
"A. J. Brown," I said. He suddenly left the room without saying anything ;
soon returned, bringing a book filled with names written in pencil. "I used
to get the boarders to write their names for me in here," he said, "but he
isn't here." I took the book to look over it myself; as I did so Jackson
seemed to suddenly recollect something. " Why, Mrs. Kellogg," he said,
' ' don't you remember that man who stayed, here once and went to Norris-
town afterwards and got crazy or something ? Wasn't he named Brown ? "
Mrs. Kellogg at once remembered that he was. I picked up the picture and
asked them whether this was the man. Both Mrs. Kellogg and Jackson
A Case of Double Consciousness. 251
immediately identified him with certainty. The greater part of the following
information I got from Jackson, with contributions from Mrs. Kellogg.
Brown was there about two weeks. Was very quiet ; said little to anyone
except Jackson. Used to sit in the dining-room after supper and talk to
him. He said he was a carpenter and came from " down east somewhere."
He had told Jackson the name of the town in which he lived, but he could
only remember that it was not far from Boston. Jackson was under the
impression that he said that he had a "good bit of money" ; had a faint
impression that he said he had a family. Used to tell Jackson about the
houses he had built, of which Jackson could not now remember any. Used
to say that modem machinery had almost ruined the carpenter's trade. In
old times, whenever business was dull, the men were kept busy making
sashes, doors, &c. Now, in such times they were idle ; half of them didn't
know how to make a sash. He had in his shop tools for making such things,
of which half the workmen he employed could not tell the use. He said he
never would pay his men on Saturday, but always on Monday. Then they
had no chance to go off on sprees, and came to work on Monday sober. He
said he had come to Philadelphia to go into business. Mrs. Kellogg told
him there could be no better place than Philadelphia. He said, No, rents
were too high. Every day he used to go out and look for a suitable place to
begin in. After a while, he came one day and said that he had found just
the place for him, and that was Norristown. It was a nice quiet place, and
he thought he could build up a good business there. Then he bought
goods to take to Norristown—comfortables and tinware were especially
mentioned, all of which he gave to Jackson to keep while he was out during
the day.
During his stay he made no reference to his past life, beyond what I have
told, or, at least, none that my informants could recollect. Seemed
perfectly himself ; never gave any reason for wishing to commence business
here.
They afterwards saw the accounts in the papers, and recognised the man
there referred to as the man who had stayed with them. They were under
the impression, however, as I observed while talking with them, that he had
become crazy after leaving them, but it had never occurred to them that there
had been anything wrong with him while with them.
Jackson asked Mrs. Kellogg whether she hadn't the book in which she
used to enter her boarders. She said she supposed she had somewhere, but
didn't know where. I asked her whether she wouldn't look it up for me.
She said she hadn't an idea as to where it could be, but if ever she ran across
it she would let me see it.
I think the above is quite accurate. I took notes of all that was said at
the time, and wrote it up within an hour. I have put down all these details
that you may form your own opinion as to the worth of their identification.
I also thought that the rather characteristic remarks attributed by Jackson
to "Mr. Brown" might be of some use to you in determining whether he
really was the same A. J. Brown of whom you are in search. I might add
that it seemed to me that Mrs. Kellogg and Jackson were giving me real
reminiscences, and I feel quite sure that they told the truth. I hardly think
that it is worth while to see the other sister, Miss Lyon, but, unless you
252 R. Hodgson.
think the above enough, I shall go down again in a week or two and try to
get a sight of that record of Mrs. Kellogg's.
Wm. Romainb Newbold.
P.S. —I will return the picture after I have showed it to Miss Lyon. It
will not be of much use, but I might as well do it.
Mr. Newbold writes later :—
4,228, Chester-avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., December 6th, 1890.
*****
I purposely delayed visiting Mrs. Kellogg for awhile, to give her an
opportunity of finding that missing book. Yesterday I went again.
I saw Mrs. Kellogg and asked especially after Miss Lyon. Mrs. K.
thought she was out. She sent for Jackson and I talked with him and Mrs.
Kellogg for some time without learning anything of importance. He, Jack
son, repeated in almost the same words what he had told me before.
No boarders are now in the house who were there when "Brown"
was there, nor could I learn the names or present addresses of any such. It
is scarcely probable, they say, that anything could be learned from them.
Most of their boarders take breakfast very early, and are off shortly after
six o'clock. "Brown" rarely came to breakfast much before seven, and
usually was alone at table. Then he would chat with Jackson.
After breakfast he used to go out—always, except twice, returned to
luncheon at 12 to 1.30 ; went out again and returned to dinner at six. When
not in the dining-room he spent nearly all his time in his room. The two
exceptions above referred to were two days when he was in Norristown and
was absent from breakfast until dinner. He never sat in the parlour, and
was never known to talk to any of the other boarders. He first appeared at
the house one forenoon shortly before lunchtime. Engaged his room, as is
there customary, for a week. He went away two weeks from that date after
breakfast. Of this Jackson felt quite sure, for, he said, he remembered
having remarked at the time that if he had stayed to luncheon he would
have become liable for another week's board. When he first came he did
not, so far as Mrs. Kellogg could recollect, mention where he came from.
He told Jackson, however, several times. Jackson only remembers that it
was a village near Boston, and as I had neglected to take your letter with
me I was not able to ascertain whether he could recognise the name. I
asked Jackson the following questions, but he had no recollection of ever
having heard "Mr. Brown" say anything about any such subjects: "Did
he ever mention the denomination to which he belonged?" "Not that I
remember. I don't know whether he was a Methodist or Presbyterian."
"Did he ever mention church-going?" "No recollection of it." "Ever
speak of Baptists ? Of having been an infidel ? Having been converted ?
Having had any very extraordinary experience ? Having ever been struck
blind ? Deaf ? or dumb ? Ever mention cards ? Were cards ever suggested
to him ? Did he ever see them played ?" At this point Mrs. K. explained that
he never associated with the other boarders or came into the parlour. " Ever
smoke ? Use tobacco in any form ? Drink ? What did he do on Sundays ?
Any reason to suppose he went to church ? " Upon all these points my in
formants had no knowledge whatever.
A Case of Double Consciousness. 253
I was under the impression when I last wrote that he had intended to
open a carpenter shop in Norristown. Jackson says no—that it was a sort of
notion store. Besides the comfortables and tinware I mentioned before,
Jackson recollected curtains, toys, candies, and long rolls, perhaps five feet
long, four inches in diameter. Contents unknown. About two days after
leaving he came in again ; saw Jackson, and told him that he was getting on
very nicely in his new enterprise. I thanked Jackson for his information,
and said I would not trouble him further.
I asked again for Miss Lyon. Mrs. K. went to see whether she was in.
Returned, saying that her sister was in ; said that she had scarcely ever
spoken to "Mr. Brown." Probably never would have, except that, as her
room was No. 5 and his No. 7 she occasionally supplied him with matches or
such little necessaries. The only thing she recollected having heard him
say was that he had secured a nice, quiet little place in a confectioner's or
baker's store, where he had two rooms all to himself, and would be secure
from annoyance. I asked Mrs. Kellogg to show Miss Lyon the picture.
She did so, and said that Miss Lyon recognised it as Mr. Brown instantly.
I should have said above that Jackson thought it odd that "Brown "
should have made no mention of religious matters, for he, Jackson, had
quizzed him once or twice on being a clergyman, on account of his venerable
appearance.
Mrs. Kellogg had not yet found her book. Promised to search for it,
and to let me know when it was found.
Wll. RoMAINe NeWBOLD.
APPENDIX C.
(Reports of Medical Examinations.)
Examination by Guy Hinsdale, M.D.
The following statements are extracts from Dr. Hinsdale's report of
his examination of Ansel Bourne in April, 1888 :—
" His grandfather (maternal) was in his latter days (when past 70 years)
slightly deranged—childish. His mother was a descendant of General
Greene, of revolutionary fame. A brother died aged 3 months, cause
unknown. Two sisters, older, are still living in good health. It is said that
the subject, Ansel Bourne, did not walk until two years old. No physical
cause for this. Believes that he has had the ordinary children's diseases.
Does not recollect that he ever had any serious illness as a child. Never
had any fever of any kind. His early days were not characterised by mental
excitement. Was not excited at all, but deliberate, cool, and in general
matters always characterised by presence of mind. This has often saved
him from injury to life.
"Has never had any severe injury ; no blow on the head ; was not in the
war.
" He has been prostrated sometimes from over-work, more from physical
exhaustion than from mental excitement. His attitude on questions is never
impulsive. He moves slowly, consistently, &c, and never had any illness
since [the remarkable experience of 1857].
254 R. Hodgson.
" Has been a total abstainer from alcohol and tobacco for forty years—
never intoxicated but once.
" Was married at age of nineteen. No venereal history.
' ' Never had rheumatism. No chest trouble. Digestion good. Appetite
good. Tongue coated slightly. Bowels not so regular (costive) for two or
three days. Sleep is not very good—inclined to wakefulness. Pain of late
in his right side—under the right floating ribs. No pain to-day.
"Is a tall man of 6ft. height. Weight 158.
" Eyesight has been poor for a good while. Glasses convex.
"No disturbance of vision except as above. No diplopia."
Abridgment from Notes by E. Cowles, M.D.
May 30th, 1890.
His own melancholy fits come a dozen times a year—sometimes in
them will walk off 2 or 3 miles without knowing where he is. No aura
precedes. No exhilaration afterwards. In early life studied very hard;
later anxiety of meeting congregations, &c, produced a "sinking away," not
exactly fainting. Tongue occasionally sore at end, but no traces of biting.
Patellar reflexes normal. No clonus of foot. Pupils equal—react readily.
Sensibility to light touch on hands; head and ears normal.
Examination of Ansel Bourne, May 30th, 1890, by Wm. Noyes, M.D.
Mr. Bourne's sensibility to touch (tested with fingers, cotton, pin, and
aesthesiometer) appeared entirely normal during his waking state, with the
exception of a region about 4 by 3 inches (roughly) on inner side of left thigh
where the sensibility was diminished. No anaesthetic or tender spots could
be discovered on back, spinal column, chest, or limbs, either upper or lower.
In the hypnotic state there was some diminution of sensibility but not
very marked. A small bit of cotton let fall three or four inches on his
head where he was bald was felt, although the reply was given very slowly.
A pin could be stuck into the back of his hand and he would allow it to
remain. Said it felt about one quarter inch in diameter. Did not recognise
it as a pin. Patellar tendon reflexes were equal and normal, and pupils
responded readily to light, both in and out of the hypnotic state. Examina
tion of the tongue showed nothing that could be definitely identified as a
scar. On the right side of this organ, near the middle, there was a small
spot about 3 by 1 m.m. that had a slightly different colour from the surround
ing tissues, but could not definitely be identified as scar-tissue.
(No magnifying glass was used.)
Notes by Professor Wm. James, M.D.
May 30th, 1890.
He was tried during this afternoon by Drs. Wadsworth and Jack, both
in and out of the trance. No difference of vision or hearing was discovered
in the two states. He recognised tobacco and vinegar in the trance by their
smell, and also salt and sugar on his tongue, though the sugar was recognised
slowly. I found, to my surprise, that he discriminated points about as well
on the palmar surface of hands or fingers when in as when out of the trance.
The tardiness of his replies made it seem as if he must be more insensitive.
A Case of Double Consciousness. 255
The only difference between trance and waking as to sensibility seems then to
be a not very pronounced analgesia during trance.
Produced hallucination of red cross in trance. No after image. Waked
him by upward passes made without warning.
Examination of Ansel Bourne, May 30th, 1890, by O. F.
Wadsworth, M.D.
Right eye, central opacity of cornea, about 2 m.m. diameter ; left eye,
two dots of opacity in cornea a little below centre. Pupils react well.
Field of vision of normal extent in each eye. Discs normal for age ; little
pigment in epithelial layer generally, in either eye ; in other respects fundus
normal. Hypermetropia shown by ophthalmoscope, about 3 d., but re
fraction different through different parts of cornea, owing to the opacities.
No means at hand for testing vision accurately.
Report of the Examination of Mr. Brown's Hearing, by Frederick
L. Jack, M.D.
May 30th, 1890.
The hearing power for the voice was impaired on both sides. He could
hear the tuning-fork, "C," better in the right ear than in the left. In
contact with the cranial bones it was heard more distinctly on the left side.
Acoumeter was heard at about four (4) inches from the right and two (2)
from the left ear. Tickings of the watch perceived only when pressed
against the right ear ; not heard on contact in the left. When watch was
put between the teeth (bone conduction) nothing was heard. Tests in the
patient's natural state were the same, but answers were quicker.
APPENDIX D.
Ambulatory Automatism in a Hysterical Man.
By Dr. Proust, Professor of Hygiene at the Hotel Dieu, of Paris.
(The case was published in the Revue de L'HypnotUme, March, 1890, and
the following resume was printed in the Journal S.P.R. for May, 1890.)
Emile X. , ^Et. 33, is a barrister in Paris ; of good ability and education
in classical studies, both as a boy and at the university. He was always ner
vous and over-sensitive, with some hysterical attacks and functional derange
ments of motion and sensation, signs, in fact, of " la grande hysteric" He
could be hypnotised very easily, and while M. Luys had him in charge he
could be put to sleep by a loud noise, or any sudden impression. One day
in a cafe" he saw himself in the looking-glass and at once fell into a hypnotic
state which frightened his friends and led them to take him to a hospital,
where he recovered without any difficulty. Sometimes his attacks were
different ; he would seem to his companions to undergo no loss of conscious
ness, but would lose the memory of all his past life during a few minutes or
a few days and in this condition of secondary consciousness would lead an
active and apparently normal life on foot or on horseback, in his friends'
houses or in shops. From such a state he woke suddenly and was entirely
without memory of what had happened to him in this secondary state. An
instance of this occurred on September 23rd, 1888. He had had a quarrel
256 R. Hodgson.
with hLs stepfather in Paris, which had excited him considerably, and he fell
into his second state. Three weeks later he woke after his usual fashion,
without any memory whatever of what had been happening, and found
himself at Villars-Saint-Marcelin, in the Haute Marne, more than 100 miles
from Paris. He picked up from various sources a little knowledge of what
he had done. He was told he had visited the priest of the village, who had
thought him " odd " ; that he had also stayed with one of his uncles who was
a bishop in the Haute Marne, and at hLs house had broken various things,
and torn up some MSS. of his uncle's ; that he had run into debt to the extent
of £20, and that he had been summoned before the court at Yassy on some
charge of petty theft, and in his absence judgment had been given against
him. Again, on May 11th, 1889, he was breakfasting at a restaurant in
Paris, and two days later found himself at Troyes. Of what had happened
during these two days he could remember nothing. He recollected that
before losing his consciousness he had had a greatcoat and a purse in it
containing 226fr.
These facts reminded Professor Proust of the well-known case of Felida
X., and of the more recent case of Louis V. (Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Rssearch, XI., 497,) in which the memory of the secondary
personality was recalled by hypnotism. Emile X. was easily hypnotised, and
in that state could give a full account of what had happened to him in his
states of secondary personality. In his first of these two attacks he described
how he had lorit some of the £20 at cards, and told the complete story of
what he had done when staying with his uncle, the bishop, and afterwards
with the priest. In the same way as to his visit to Troyes, he told the details
of his journey, of the friends he had dined with there, and where he had left
his overcoat and purae. Notes were taken of his hypnotic account, and on
the strength of these he wrote to the hotel keeper at Troyes asking for his
coat and purse, and describing where he had left them. Two days later, to
his great astonishment, he received them both, and the 226fr. in the purse.
The court at Vassy, also, when his true condition had become known, reversed
the judgment given against him.
APPENDIX E.
A Case of Epilepsy with Double Consciousness.
(Extract from an article by G. R. Trowbridge, M.D., assistant physician
to the State Hospital for the Insane, Danville, Pa., published in the Medical
News, February 21st, 1891. Lea Brothers and Co., Philadelphia.)
The patient is a German, male, aged fifty-two years, admitted February
3rd, 1888—his second admission to the hospital. He is about 5 feet 8 inches
in height, weighs about 150 pounds, and is thick-set, and very muscular.
All of his toes have been lost, and his fingers more or less disabled by frost
bite. He has been subject to epileptic convulsions since 1862, and was first
attacked while working on a Transatlantic steamer, where he was a stoker. Ho
thinks that the disease was caused by the intense heat to which he was ex
posed. There is no family history of epilepsy or of any other nervous affec
tion, and no record of insanity. The epileptic attacks are of a most violent
A Case of Double Consciousness. 257
nature (grand mal), and occur about once every month or six weeks. He then
has from three to six convulsions, and never during the time he has been
in my charge has he had single convulsions in the interval. For several days
preceding the convulsions he complains of pain in the left inguinal region,
and says that it is "due to a fall he had when on board ship." There is
no evidence of anything abnormal in this region, and I regard the pain as an
aura, as he never complains of it except just before the attack. Shortly after
this aura (from twenty-four to thirty-six hours) he has a convulsion, and on
recovering from this becomes somewhat irritable and sullen. Other convul
sions follow until he has had from three to six. His irritability and sullen-
ness increase in proportion to the number of convulsions, and he finally
lapses into a perfect condition of double identity, the original Ego being com
pletely destroyed, and during this period of second self it is necessary to
place him in seclusion.
The time occupied during the transition from the first condition to the
second is from two to four days, varying according to the interval between
the epileptic attacks.
During this period of "second self" he becomes very violent and
abusive, and can be approached only after being physically overpowered.
When he passes into this condition he at first refuses nourishment, but
toward the latter part of the period he will swallow if a cup is held to his
mouth, though it is necessary to restrain his hands and feet. If left to him
self he is, as a rule, comparatively quiet, and, as far as I can ascertain, his
sleep is not disturbed.
This condition lasts from five to ten days, and his return to a normal con
dition rarely occupies more than twenty-four hours, though on one or two
occasions it has taken somewhat longer. For some time after the return to
his normal condition he speaks in a husky voice, and complains that his
throat is sore, and for some days he is abstracted and listless.
When in his normal condition, the man is of a pleasant disposition, and
does a great deal of work about the ward. When questioned in regard to
his sensations during the periods of " second self," he says he can tell no
thing except that everybody and everything is strange to him, and that he
knows nothing of what he says or does. But he can describe circumstances
and occurrences which took place before the development of his " second
condition," i.e., during a previous normal period.
The expression of his face during the period of " second self " is altered,
changing from a rather pleasant expression to one of intense anger and
hatred. In short, I do not think that Stevenson's ' ' Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde " could be worse than this man, were he given his liberty.
On one occasion, before his admission to this hospital, while in his second
state, he was disturbed by his wife, who endeavoured to make him eat, and
in the paroxysm of rage caused by this he tried to kill her with a hatchet,
but was prevented by the timely interference of the neighbours. He after
wards said that he had no recollection at all of the matter.
s»ppiement.] Third Ad Interim Report. ,259
SUPPLEMENT.
i.
THIRD AD INTERIM REPORT ON THE CENSUS OF
HALLUCINATIONS.
England.
Up to July 1st, 1891.
The total number of answers received up to this date is :
"No." "Yes." Totals.
3854 365 4219
4360 697 5057
Totals 8214 1062 9276
Percentage of affirmative answers, ll-45.
Of the persons answering " Yes," 164 have as yet sent no particulars.
The number of persons who have had more than one experience—
either the same repeated more than once, or different experiences—is 300.
Of these, 118 have had only auditory or tactile experiences, generally of a
trivial kind. When a percipient has had more than one experience, but has
not described them singly, his experiences are counted together as one case
in the following tables. "
Of the experiences described, about 14'5 per cent, are reported by our
informants to have coincided with some external event in such a way as to
suggest a causal connection between the two.
The experiences recorded have been classified as follows :—
S 2
260 Third Ad Interim Report on the [Supplement.
A.—Experiences Affecting More Than One Sense.
I.—Coincidental.
Representing
An In
animate
Object.
A Living
Person.
A Dead
Person.
An
Animal. Totals.
19
2
1
4
3
3
1 3 26
2
1
7
Visual, Auditory, and Tactile
26 6 1 3 36
II.-—Non-Coincidental.
Representing
s a % _
o
S o
£ B
Si
.i
Living
Pe Dead
Pe
si
vrt
of
HuFigure
otthan
He; An
Anim n
InanimObject,
Totals.
,4 <! < S
12 23 20 3 1 10 69
4 6 5 1 1 17
3 3 4 1 3 14
Yisual, Auditory, and Tactile ... 2 2 7 1 12
Totals 21 34 36 4 2 15 112
In many of the above cases, the auditory part of the experience was
non-vocal (that is, not of a kind that would have been counted if another
sense had not been affected at the same time), such as footsteps, rustling,
crashes, raps, sounds as of doors opening or shutting, or vehicles going along
a road, music, rushing sounds and other noises. The great majority of
these, however (viz., 52 out of 59), occur among the non-coincidental cases.
These noises may sometimes have been real sounds, whose origin was not
ascertained, and similarly the tactile elements of the sensations may some
times have been due to real muscular sensations.
Of the coincidental visual and auditory cases, 3, viz. , 1 representing an
animal and 2 representing inanimate objects, are said to have been
collective. Of the non-coincidental visual and auditory cases, 14, viz., 2
representing a living person, 1 a dead person, 4 an unrecognised person, 1
Supplement.] 261
Census of Hallucinations.
an animal, and 6 an inanimate object, are also said to have been collective.
The impressions produced on the several percipients, however, were not
similar in all the cases which are here called collective. In one of the cases
where a living person was seen, three persons saw the figure, while only one
of them heard its footsteps ; and in the other, two persons heard a crash,
only one of them seeing the figure. In two of the cases where an unrecog
nised figure was seen, only one of the two percipients saw the figure, while
both heard noises corresponding to its apparent movements. The case where
the animal was seen is one which I described in my Address on the Census of
Hallucinations last year (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI., p. 433) as an instance
of a probably real sound being the possible cause of different visual
hallucinations.
B.—Experiences Affecting One Sense Only.
I.—Visual.
1. Coincidental—
a. Human Apparitions :
a. Of living people
f3. Unrecognised
6. Non-human apparitions : \- 77
a. Of animals (symbolic) ... 3"
/3. Of inanimate objects 7 .
2. Non-coincidental—
a. Human Apparitions :
a. Of living people lily
/3. Of dead people 73 I
2}"i
►
1} ioj
73I
y. Unrecognised 239
Any part of figure other than head
Non-human apparitions : f" 526
a. Of animals ... ... 16 1
|3. Of inanimate objects ... 50 J
Total 603
Of these, 87 (11 coincidental and 76 non-coincidental cases) are said to
have been collective experiences. The coincidental collective experiences
consist of 5 apparitions of a living person, 1 of an unrecognised person, and
5 of inanimate objects ; and the non-coincidental collective experiences con
sist of 16 apparitions of a living person, 6 of a dead person, and 38 of an
unrecognised person, 1 of an animal and 15 of inanimate objects. Of these
collective experiences, 47 (3 coincidental and 44 non-coincidental) occurred
out of doors, the important bearings of which circumstance I discussed in my
address on the subject last year. (Proceedings S.P.B., Vol. VI., p. 431.)
2G2 [Supplement.
Third Ad Interim Report on the
II.—Auditory (Human Voices).
1. Coincidental—
a. Recognised living :
Name called 15
Words other than percipient's name 14
Crying or sobbing 2
b. Recognised dead :
Words other than percipient's name 1
c. Unrecognised :
Namecalled ... ... 2
Words other than percipient's name ... ... 9
2. Non-coincidental—
a. Recognised living :
Name called on one occasion
Words other than percipient's name
Voices heard (once or more) ... ...
Various (song, screams)
b. Recognised dead :
Name called on one occasion ... ... ... 14
Words other'than percipient's name 5
Voices heard (once or more) 4
Sighs 2
c Name called on more than one occasion, voice either
recognised or not
d. Unrecognised :
Name called on one occasion 28^
Words other than percipient's- name 34
Voices heard (once or more) ... 20
Shrieks .... , 3
Sighs or groans ,,, .,, 3
Sobbing 2
Laugh ,,, 1
Singing *
Y 32
3
}
43
52.
25
249
77
95
Total 292
Of these, 31 (4 coincidental and 27 non-coincidental)are said to have been
collective experiences. The 4 coincidental collective experiences are : 2 cases
of calls and 1 of words in a recognised voice, and 1 of a call in an unrecog
nised voice. The non-coincidental collective cases are : 11 of the voice of a
living person (8 calls, 2 words, 1 song), 5 of the voice of a dead person (1
call, 1 words, 1 voices, 2 sighs), 1 of calls occurring on three occasions to the
same two percipients, and 10 of unrecognised voices (4 words, 2 voices, 1
singing, 1 sobbing, 1 shriek, and 1 groan).
Supplement.) 263
Census of Hallucinations.
III.—Tactile.
1. Coincidental—
a. Recognised touch of a living person
6. Unrecognised ...
2. Non-coincidental—
«. Recognised touch of a living person
a. Single touch
/3. Recurring touches
b. Recognised touch of a dead person :
a. Single touch
/3. Recurring touches
c. Unrecognised :
a. Single touch ...
/3. Recurring touches
Total
Of these, 5 cases (1 coincidental and 4 non-coincidental) are said to have
been collective ; the coincidental case being 1 of an unrecognised touch, and
the non-coincidental cases being 1 of recurring sensations of cool breezes
and 3 of single touches. In one of the latter, one percipient saw a vague
figure when the other felt a touch.
We have in this Report endeavoured to take some account of morbid
conditions, and have counted as negative answers those of 12 persons—8
women and 4 men—who answered "Yes," but whose experiences seemed to
be clearly due to fever, or to a blow on the head, or to some similar definite
cause. In our final Report, this question of illness, as well as the numerous
other questions arising out of the information received, will, of course, be
fully discussed.
In conclusion, I must again beg my readers to render me, if possible, fur
ther assistance in collecting answers. A report on the Census is to be made
to the International Congress of Experimental Psychology which will meet
in England in August, 1892, and we ought by that time to have a much
larger number of answers than we have yet received. Indeed, while gladly
acknowledging much valuable and zealous assistance, I must admit to feeling
disappointed at the comparatively small number of people who have come
forward to help. I am not without hope that I may still obtain co-operation
from some of the members of the Society for Psychical Research, who have
not yet taken part in the collection. Only about 84 out'of some 700 have so
far sent me any answers, though I hope that others may already have partly
filled forms which will reach me in course of time. One great object aimed
at in forming a society like ours is that the members may co-operate in
psychical inquiries when opportunity offers. I am arranging to have a new
copy of the collectors' form sent to each member of the Society in England
who has not sent me one filled up, in the hope that he or she may yet be able
to collect answers, and I shall be glad to correspond with anyone else who is
J} *)
1}
73
89
65 J
80
Third Ad Interim Report on the [Supplement.
willing to help in the work. Letters should be addressed, Professor Sidgwick,
Cambridge.
• , Henry Sidgwick.
P.S.—In America the collection is being carried on by Professor William
James, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., who may be applied to for
the necessary forms.
; t
I
France.
Up to April 30th, 1891.
Report Presented to the Society for Psychical Research
I By M. Leon Marillier, Secretary for France.
I ,
The statistical inquiry into hallucinations was begun in France on April
15th, 1889 ; its first period ended on April 30th, 1891. The number of
answers collected up to that date was 2,822. They may be divided thus :
" No." " Yes." Totals.
1702 260 1962
648 212 860
Totals 2350 472 2822
which gives 16'05 per cent, of affirmative answers. Among the 472 affirma
tive answers there are 243 about which we have as yet been unable to obtain
particulars. The 229 affirmative answers about which we have received
information may be classified as follows :—
A.—Hallucinations Affecting More Than One Sense.
I.—Coinciding with a Real Event or so Reported.
Representing
Totals.
A LivingPerson. A Dead Person. An Unrecognis
ed Person.
"Visual and Auditory 3 1 3 7
Visual and Tactile ... 1 1
Totals 3 2 3 8
supplement.] Census of Hallucinations. 265
II.—Not Coinciding with any Real Event.
Representing
Totals.
A Living A Dead An Unrecog An
Person. Person. nised Person. Object.
1 6 5 1 13
1 3 4
Visual, Auditory, and Tactile 1 1 3 5
1 1
Visual, Auditory, Tactile, and
2 2
1 1
2 9 14 1 26
12 1
2J
B.—Hallucinations Affecting one Sense Only.
I.—Visual.
1. Coincidental—
a. Human beings :
a. Living people
/3. Unrecognised people ...
b. Animals and objects :
a. Animal
|9. Object
2. Non-coincidental—
a. Human beings :
a. Living people
/3. Dead people
y. Unrecognised people
8. Parts of the human body
t. Angel
b. Animals and objects :
a. Animal
f3. Objects
14
1}
16
Y 611
13
I 74
90
II.—Auditory.
1. Coincidental—
a. Human voices :
a. Recognised voices
0. Unrecognised voices
y. Cries, sighs, groans, coughs ...
b. Various noises
6 1
5J
14J
29
266 [Supplement-
Third Ad Interim Report on the
2. Non-coincidental—
a. Human voices :
a. Recognised voices of living people ..
f). Recognised voices of dead people
y. Unrecognised voices ...
8. Cries, sighs ...
b. Various noises
III.—Tactile.
1. Coincidental. Unrecognised persons ...
2. Non-coincidental :
a. Recognised person
6. Unrecognised persons
c. Statue
Total 11
The number of persons who have had several hallucinations is 48 ; of
this number 12 have had one or more hallucinations which have coincided
with a real event.
The number of collective veridical hallucinations is 8 : 5 auditory,
1 visual, 2 visual and auditory.
The number of collective falsidical hallucinations is 7 : 3 visual, 3 audi
tory, 1 tactile.
Of the 229 hallucinations about which we have been able to obtain
particulars, a total of 56 have been reported to us as veridical.
The proofs of coincidence furnished to us have in general been very
weak, and among these 56 cases there are very few which rest on a consensus
of testimony sufficient to carry conviction. But it certainly seems that the
hallucinations which we have placed in the category of veridical hallucina
tions constitute a natural group and present, . taking them all together,
characteristics which mark them off from other hallucinations.
Of the 173 falsidical hallucinations only 7 were collective hallucinations ;
of the 56 hallucinations said to be veridical, 8 were collective.
Of the 7 veridical hallucinations which were both visual and auditory, 3
represent a recognised living person ; of the 13 falsidical hallucinations in
the same class, only 1 represents a living person recognised by the
percipient.
Of 14 veridical visual hallucinations representing human beings, 12
represent a living person known to the percipient ; out of 61 falsidical
hallucinations in the same category there are the same number, 12, repre
senting a living person whom the percipient has been able to recognise.
In the category of veridical hallucinations affecting the sense of sight
only we find no apparitions of dead people ; among the 61 falsidical
hallucinations of this class, 20 represent dead people.
In 15 cases of veridical auditory hallucinations in which a human voice
was heard, there are 4 in which the voice was recognised ; while in 47
supplement.] Census of Hallucinations. 267
falsidical hallucinations of the same kind there are 6 cases only in which the
voice was recognised.
I am aware that these comparisons rest on too small a number of facts
to have very much value, but it has seemed to me useful to indicate them.
It is, I think, by this method—inaugurated by Mr. Edmund Gurney—
even more than by accumulating coincidences of which the exactness is
sometimes doubtful, that it will be possible to decide whether or not the
hallucinations called telepathic constitute a special class of phenomena,
requiring a special explanation.
Here is the information which our statistics have furnished in the matter
of ages.
"No." "Yes." Total.
Under 21 years of age... 70 23 93
From 21 to 30 years ... 750 152 902
,, 30 to 40 ,, 655 98 753
„ 40 to 50 „ 432 90 522
„ 50 to 60 „ 273 70 343
,, 60 to 70 ,, 121 25 146
49 12 61
Brittany has furnished the majority of the veridical hallucinations.
The inquiry will be continued till July 31st, 1892, and a general report will
be presented to the International Congress of Experimental Psychology of
1892. I shall be much obliged if any persons willing to co-operate in this
inquiry, in France, Switzerland, or Belgium, will kindly send me their names
and addresses. Letters should be addressed : L. Marillier, 7, Rue Michelet,
Paris.
L. Marillier,
Maitre de Conferences a l'Ecole des Hautes-Etudea.
Paris, May 2nd, 1891.
268 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
II.
ON SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS ;
A REPLY TO MR. A. R. WALLACE.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
The review of the evidence for what are called "spirit photographs"
which I am about to present to the reader was substantially written in
1885 or 1886, when I was engaged in writing an article on Spiritualism
for the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and had, therefore, to read and
estimate the evidence in all branches of the subject. I did not offer
the paper to the Society for Psychical Research, because its attention
had not been specially drawn to the subject and, as will be seen, my
conclusions were on the whole negative. It appeared to me that,
after eliminating what might certainly or probably be attributed to
trickery, the remaining evidence was hardly sufficient in amount to
establish even a primd facie case for investigation, in view of the
immense theoretical difficulties involved.
But recently Mr. Alfred Russel "Wallace, in an article entitled "Are
there Objective Apparitions 1 " contributed to an American periodical,
The Arena (for January, 1891), has again appealed to Spirit Photo
graphs as evidence of the objectivity in question, and has challenged the
Society for Psychical Research to deal with this evidence. He says :—
" This long series of photographic experiments and tests . . . has been
hitherto not even alluded to by the investigators of the Society for Psychical
Research. But they cannot much longer continue to ignore it, because they
have entered on the task of collecting the whole of the evidence for psychical
phenomena, and of fairly estimating the weight of each of the groups under
which that evidence falls. Now I submit that this photographic evidence is
superior in quality to any that they have hitherto collected, for two reasons.
In the first place, it is experimental evidence, and experiment is rarely
possible in the higher psychical phenomena ; in the second place, it is the
evidence of experts, in an operation the whole details of which are perfectly
familiar to them. And, I further submit, this evidence can no longer be
ignored because it is evidence that goes to the very root of the whole inquiry
and affords the most complete and crucial test in the problem of subjectivity
or objectivity of apparitions."
Mr. Wallace is too eminent a man and too much interested in our
investigations for such a challenge to pass unnoticed and it has, there
fore, been thought that the following examination of the evidence to
which he appeals had better be published.
Supplement.] 269
On Spirit Photographs.
I may add that Mr. "Wallace is expressing now the same opinion
that he expressed in 1874, in his book entitled Miracles and Modem
Spiritualism. He said then of spirit photography : " It is that which
furnishes, perhaps, the most unassailable demonstration it is possible to
obtain of the objective reality of spiritual forms."
Spirit photographs—or at least those species of them which I pro
pose to deal with here 1—are photographs representing figures or objects
which at the moment the photograph seemed to be taken had no
apparent counterpart in the field of view discoverable by the normal
sight. A photographer with the faculty of producing such photo
graphs would, in taking a portrait of a human sitter, sometimes obtain
that of some other person on the same plate. If the sitter was
fortunate, it would be that of a deceased relation. Sometimes persons
possessing, or supposed to possess, the faculty of seeing spirits said that
they saw the form which ultimately appeared on the plate hovering
near the sitter, though invisible to ordinary eyes.
As this paper will be critical rather than descriptive, it will be
desirable to. give at the outset a brief account of the periodicals and
books where evidence on the subject may be found, which will have the
further advantage of saving continual references as we go on.
A collection of the evidence on the subject was made by "M.A.
(Oxon.)" in a series of papers contributed to Human Nature in 1874
and 1 875, and this is the best summary of it which I have seen. It
needs supplementing, however. In particular Mr. Beattie's accounts of
his own experiments (see British Journal of Photography for 1872
and 1873; Spiritualist for July, 1872 ; Spiritual Magazine for
September, 1872, abbreviated slightly from the Spiritualist ; , and
Spiritual Magazine for November, 1873, from the British Journal of
Photography) should be read. Some of the evidence scattered through
the Spiritual Magazine from 1872 to 1875 is important, though the
best is given by " M.A. (Oxon.) " Also much light is thrown on the
subject by the controversy about the genuineness of Hudson's photo
graphs in the Spiritual Magazine and Spiritualist for 1872, and by
the trial of Buguet, for accounts of which see various numbers of the
Spiritualist for 1875 and 1876, and especially Madame Leymarie's
Proces des Sjnrites (Paris, 1875). Mr. Wallace devotes several pages
to the subject of spirit photography in his Miracles and Modern
Spiritualism. The Spiritual Magazine for 1869 gives the trial of
Mumler, and the Spiritual Magazine for 1862 and 1863 contains
1 Mr. Wallace applies the name also to photographs of so-called "materialised
spirits." In the case of "materialisations," however, it is not usually the genuine
ness of the photographic process, but merely the spirituality of the figure photo
graphed which the sceptic calls in question.
270 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
some account of Mumler's early performances at Boston. To these
references I must now (1891) add M. Aksakoff's Animismus und
Spiritismus (Leipzig, 1890), in which a long chapter devoted to the
subject contains some additional evidence. '
We may divide the evidence for Spirit Photographs into that obtained
with professional photographers who made a profit out of it, and that
obtained by investigators apart from anyone with a pecuniary interest
in the result. I shall begin with the first class, because it is by far the
largest.
Mumler in America, who began operations at Boston in 1862,
Hudson and Parkes in London 10 years later, and Buguet at Paris,
who flourished and fell in 1874-1875, have been the principal pro
fessional Spirit Photographers. There have been others, especially in
America, but they are less well known, at least in this country, and
at any rate the four I have named will sufficiently serve as types. Of
these four, Mumler, Hudson, and Buguet produced sham Spirit Photo
graphs, whether they produced real ones or not.
Mumler had been at work but a few months when, early in 1863,
it appeared that a living person figured in at least two of his
photographs as a spirit of the dead. This seems temporarily to have
given a blow to his credit and he sank into obscurity. In 1869 he
reappeared at New York, with testimonials mostly dating from 1862,
which looks as if he had not done much in the interval. It was a few
months after he settled at New York that his trial—referred to by Mr.
Wallace—for swindling credulous persons by what he called Spirit
Photographs took place. This time he was more fortunate than in
1863. Only New York evidence was admitted, and the only definite
New York evidence against him appears to have been that of Marshal
J. H. Tooker, who had been sent by the Mayor (it was a public prosecu
tion) to " look up " the case. This he did by assuming a false name
and having his photograph taken by Mumler ; and the result was a
" spirit photograph," which he was told represented his father-in-law,
but which he said bore no resemblance to his father-in-law, or any
other person he had known. For the defence was brought the
evidence of photographers and others who had failed to discover any
trick, and that of persons who had obtained recognised likenesses of
departed friends. The trial ended in Mumler's acquittal, the judge
saying, "That, however he might believe that trick and deception had
been practised by the prisoner, yet ... he was compelled to
decide that he should not be justified in sending the defence to the
grand jury, as, in his opinion, the prosecution had failed to prove the
case." (Spiritual Magazine for June, 1869.) This acquittal, consider
ing that the previous evidence against him was necessarily excluded,
and that the prosecution seems to have been premature and hasty,
supplement.] On Spirit Photographs. 271
relying on the a priori probability that he cheated and not on proved
instances, can hardly be rega-rded as triumphant, nor as in any way
invalidating the previous evidence of fraud.
As to Hudson, very soon after he began the business, Mr. J.
Enmore Jones, a leading Spiritualist, discovered on some of his photo
graphs clear signs of trickery. Other Spiritualists—some of them
expert photographers—now inquired into the matter, and the fact was
clearly established that there was something wrong about many of the
photographs. It was alleged against them (see Spiritualist for Sep
tember, 1872) that they showed obvious signs of double exposure, such
as the background appearing through the dress of the mundane sitter,
and marks in the background appearing duplicated ; that some of them
bore evident marks of having been altered by hand ; and that in one
or more of them Heme, the medium, had sat for the ghost. The marks
are so clear that Mr. Beattie, of Clifton, "pronounced the photographs
alluded to to be not only deception, but deception of the stupidest ;
and more, that the evidence was so palpable that, unless we are to
become as 'little children' in common observation, and very weak
children too, we could not but see them as such."
A controversy now began to rage among Spiritualists :—Hudsonites,
headed by Mr. Thomas Shorter, editor of the Spiritual Magazine,
supported by the Medium, against anti-Hudsonites, headed by Mr. W.
H. Harrison, editor of the Spiritualist (a paper which at that time
held much the same position that Light does now). Both parties
believed that Hudson produced some genuine photographs, and the
appearances of double exposure were not denied by the Hudsonites.
But these last stoutly maintained that there was no proof of fraud
against Hudson. They explained that the effects which looked like
those of double exposure, &c, were probably produced by the spirits.
Thus " spirits " told them that " the success of our manifestations in
these cases is to bring ourselves within the sphere of the sitter, and to
amalgamate that sphere with our own. When rays of light pass
through this mixed aura they are refracted and often cause things to
be apparent on the plate which you cannot account for." (See
Human Nature for October, 1872, p. 448, and editorial article in
the Spiritual Magazine for November, 1872, p. 482.) Another advo
cate suggests that the " psychical aura " may produce the effect either
owing to its having the property of double refraction, or to its having
a different density from the atmosphere and being introduced after
the exposure has begun, so that the rays of light are differently
deflected during the first and second half of the exposure. Again,
it is suggested in the Spiritual Magazine, 1872, p. 413, that the spirits
may produce the effect by slightly displacing the camera. "Photo
graphers," the writer continues, " will say that a proof of that would
272 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
appear upon the picture of the sitters"(which,we mayremark,would apply
also to the last mentioned theory); "but as a spirit can, in the sphere of
some mediums, change the modes of material substances, can a spirit
not also, in such a sphere, so modify light that the pictures taken by
him shall not interfere with that of the sitters taken by the photo
grapher ? " And in an editorial article in the Spiritual Magazine for
October, 1872, p. 465, we are told "when professional photographers
are as familiar with the laws and methods of spiritual photography, as
the more scientific members of the profession are with those of
common photography, their opinions on this question will be entitled
to greater weight. Perhaps by that time they may have learned that
phenomena of spiritual agency are not to be wholly judged by those
narrow canons of professional criticism which apply well enough to
phenomena of purely physical and mundane origin."
Arguments such as these show to what straits Hudson's defenders
were reduced. It should, however, be said for them that they believed
that a Mr. Russell, of Kingston-on-Thames, experimenting for his own
satisfaction, had obtained Spirit Photographs with Heme and Williams
as sitters, exhibiting signs of double exposure, though only one exposure
had taken place. As, however, neither the negatives nor prints from
them were ever openly produced in this case, and as their disappearance
was explained by saying that, " unfortunately, some mischievous
gnome . . . used means to obliterate the most interesting pictures
while in ,an unfinished state" (Human Nature, November, 1872, p.
499) we may be permitted to consider this evidence as worthless.
Hudson's friends also argued that double exposure could not be a sign
of fraud, because a certain photograph obtained by Dr. Dixon, with a
recognised likeness of his dead son/ showed signs of it, and also a
likeness of a spirit friend, recognised by Mr. H. Clifford Smith, came out
positive on the negative of the sitter. To most of us it will, I think,
appear that the peculiarities of these photographs throw doubt on the
value of recognition as a test of genuineness in a Spirit Photograph,
rather than prove that genuineness is compatible with double exposure.
Buguet's fraud is, if possible, even more beyond question. He was
brought to trial for swindling by the French Government in 1875, and
stated at his trial that all his Spirit Photographs were fraudulent and
generally done by means of cardboard heads and dummy figures draped
at discretion and produced on the plate by double exposure. Later,
after he had escaped to Belgium, he partly retracted this and said that
some were genuine. But there can be no doubt that, as " M.A.
1 This likeness does not seem to have been very successful as to face ; apeculiarity
of dress satisfied Dr. Dixon. (See Human Nature for November, 1874, p. 485, and
Spiritual Magazine for 1872, pp. 321 and 484.)
Supplement.] 273
On Spirit Photographs.
(Oxon.)" puts it (Human Nature, 1875, p. 334), "a recent trial in
Paris has furnished clear evidence of a long and systematic course of
fraud. . . . Buguet, by his own confession as well as by demonstra
tion, stands revealed as an impostor."
Parkes, the fourth professional spirit photographer I have named,
produced photographs of very suspicious appearance, but took the line
of frankly admitting this and even calling attention to it, while he
attributed it to the peculiar methods of operating adopted by the
spirits. He gave investigators less opportunity of examining into his
processes than Mumler, Hudson, and Buguet seemed to do, and there
could, therefore, be little chance of proving any fraud so long as he
kept clear of Mumler's great error—producing living people for dead
ones. This is a description of one photograph taken in his studio which
illustrates what I mean by suspicious appearances :—
"It was taken on a plate freshly purchased, and which had never been in
Mr. Parkes' possession. The plate had been prepared and placed in the
shield, when a photographer who was present requested that it might be
taken out and turned upside down before the exposure. This was done, and,
on developing the plate, a rude outline of a figure, composed of two busts,
appears ; the busts pointing in opposite directions. Had this occurred on a
plate which the photographer had had in his possession before, most of us
would have jumped at unfavourable conclusions." (Human Nature for
April, 1875, p. 157.)
Probably most of our readers will still arrive at " unfavourable
conclusions " as to this performance, taking into account the conditions
described. I may observe that if Parkes' statements are accepted as
trustworthy, they present a hard nut to crack to those who maintain
that spirit photography is a proof of the objectivity of phantasms. He
propounded the view, in the course of a discussion on the subject
reported in the Spiritualist for December 10th, 1875, that the
lens had nothing to do with the spirit photograph. Also that
the " spirit light " had the power to pass through opaque substances,
such as the skull and reflecting mirrors. He proved this to his own
satisfaction—so he said—by experiment. Sitting himself and inserting
a mirror in the camera which would throw his image on to a sensitive
plate at the side of the camera, and placing another sensitive plate at
the back of the camera behind the mirror, he says he obtained, as was
natural, an inverted image of himself on the side plate, but the-
"spirit" came out erect on the back one. The " spirits " told him
that " in the case of a ' spirit ' placing himself by the side of a sitter,
it was, of course, necessary to produce an inverted image, and herein
was one of their greatest difficulties in taking spirit photographs."
Mr. Parkes consequently could not focus his spirit sitters. He
generally saw them, he said, but moving the camera made no difference
1
274 Mrs. H. Sidgwich [Supplement.
to their appearance as seen through the lens ; he had, therefore, to place
it so as to harmonise the spirit's appearance with the sitter. 1 Parkes
also said that he could obtain spirit figures only on spiritually
sensitised plates, and that any doubt or uncertainty in his mind as to
whether the plate had been spiritually sensitised prevented success.
From these statements of Parkes we must infer either, as he
did himself, that "spirit photographs" are not really photographs at
all, in which case spirit photography does not afford an unassailable
proof of the objective reality of spirit forms as Mr. Wallace thinks it
does ; or that Parkes never carried out the experiments he described.
We now come to the question whether, notwithstanding the fraud,
any of these four persons ever produced genuine Spirit Photographs.
Those Spiritualists who were most decided in maintaining that there
was deception contended that they all also produced the genuine
article. They thought so because
(1) Competent persons had watched the process throughout with
out detecting trickery ; and
(2) Because among the photographs taken a certain number were
recognised as likenesses of some dead person.
It is on the first of these considerations that Mr. Wallace relies in
his article in the Arena. And I think some force must be allowed
to it. It is certainly remarkable that there is, so far as I know, no record
of either Mumler or Hudson being detected in the act of committing
the fraud, so that the proof against them rests only on the results pro
duced. At Mumler's trial evidence was given by a photographer,
named Silver, who had sold his studio and apparatus to Mumler, that
with unusual opportunities for observing, and working with him from
November to March, several times watching the process he went
through as closely as he could, he at no time detected any fraud or
deception on his part. I do not know whether Mr. Silver was a dis
interested witness, but he swore that there was no collusion between
them, and said he was not certain that the impressions were produced
1 He does not say whether the spirits stood on their heads to make this possible,
but I may observe that no such peculiarity is noticed on one occasion in which " M.A.
(Oxon.)" believed that he saw the "spirit" while he was being photographed by
Parkes. " M.A. (Oxon.) " says :—" In my clairvoyant state I saw the child standing
or hovering by me close to my left shoulder. She seemed to be standing near the table:
and I tried in vain to call Dr. Speer's attention to her. As soon as the exposure was
over, and I awoke, I stated what I had seen, and on the plate being developed, there
stands apparently on the table a little child's figure. The position is exactly where I
saw and felt it." (Human Nature, 1874, p. 397.) I am not, under the circumstances,
disposed to attach much importance to this correspondence of "M.A. (Oxon.)'s"
impression and the photograph as evidence of genuineness, partly because a baby sister
of Dr. Speer's was believed often to communicate through " M.A. (Oxon.) " at seances,
and it is not unlikely that Parkes knew this.
supplement.] On Spirit Photographs. 275
by supernatural means. (See Spiritual Magazine, June, 1869, p. 249.)
Mr. J. Gurney, a well-known photographer at New York, and a Spirit
ualist, also stated at the trial that he had failed to discover any trick ;
but I confess that this gentleman's evidence would have more weight
with me had I not seen an account of his experience with another
medium, Mrs. French. (Spiritual Magazine for 1861, p. 433, &c.) A
third photographer, named Slee, of Poughkeepsie, about whom I have no
other information, wrote to the New York Tribune that Mumler had
produced spirit photographs in his (Mr. Slee's) studio and with his
apparatus, &c, and under the closest scrutiny of his operator and him
self and assistants, without any second negative or mechanical arrange
ment whatever being discovered. (See Spiritual Magazine, June,
1869, pp., 264-266.) 1
About Hudson we have the evidence of Mr. Beattie, already men
tioned, whose honesty is beyond suspicion, and who had himself been
a professional photographer; who was, moreover, one of those most
strongly convinced that some of Hudson's photographs were fraudulent.
He and a friend, an amateur photographer, visited Hudson and had
photographs taken, watching the process with care, and he says of the
spirit figures which came out :—
"They were not made by double exposure, nor by figures being projected
in space in any way ; they were not the result of mirrors ; they were not
produced by any machinery in the background, behind it, above it, or below
it, nor by any contrivance connected with the bath, the camera, or the
camera-slide." 2
Similarly Mr. Traill Taylor, the editor of the British Journal of
Photography (Human Nature, 1874, p. 477) says that he had tried
experiments in Hudson's studio with his own plates and collodion, and
that "at no time during the preparation, exposure, or development of
the pictures was Mr. Hudson within 10 feet of the camera or dark room.
Appearances," he adds, "of an abnormal kind did certainly appear on
several plates."
Mr. Thomas Slater, optician, of 136, Euston-road, again, says that he
took a new camera, a new combination of lenses, and several glass
plates, and then, watching the process throughout, obtained " a fine
spirit picture." (Spiritual Magazine, June, 1872, p. 258.) And this
1 I do not think that Mr. Guay's evidence should be introduced in this connection
as it is by "M. A. (Oxon.) " and by M. Aksakof, because Guay seems to have been
Mumler's assistant, receiving half the profits of the business. (See Spiritual Magazine,
1869, p. 243.)
2 British Journal of Photography for July 11th, 1873, as quoted in Human Nature
for November, 1874, p. 479. Mr. Beattie and his friend had four photographs taken ;
the first (in which Mr. Beattie sat) was a failure ; the two next (in which Mr. Beattie
sat), successes, the last (in which the friend sat) was again a failure.
276 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
was after having twice watched the whole process so far as this could
be done whilst also acting as sitter.
When Buguet came to England, in 1874, Mr, W. H. Harrison, with
others, witnessed the process. Mr. Harrison sums up his report in the
Spiritualist of June 26th, 1874, as quoted in Human Nature of January,.
1875, p. 15, after describing how he watched throughout all that
Buguet did : " Obviously it is not possible to say much about spirit
photography on the slender experience of observing one experiment,,
but I do not know how to produce by artificial means a similar picture,
under like conditions."
And Mr. Slater (already mentioned), says of Buguet (see Proces
des Sjrirites, p. 145) :—,
" J'ai fait avec lui plusieurs experiences. Comme photographe, j'assistai
a toutes les manipulations depuis le nettoyage de la plaque jusqu'au
developpement de l'image, et dans aucun cas, il ne m'a pas tromp£ ni ne l'a
pas pu. J'ai eu le portrait de ma tante, qui a it6 une mere pour moi."
This absence of detection by persons watching is certainly remark
able ; but I think that Mr. Wallace and others overrate its import
ance. The question is how far an intelligent person ought to expect
to detect trickery of the kind here supposed—-which is practically
conjuring—how far he ought to expect to see all that goes on within his
possible field of vision when someone else is trying to prevent his seeing
it, and I believe that the majority of persons expect too much of them
selves and others in this way. It is not a proof of stupidity to be
unable to see when or how a trick is done ; even conjurers cannot do
this always, or they would not need to buy each other's tricks. The
ordinary mistake of eye-witnesses who relate experiences of this kind
is to over-estimate their powers of observation and memory. In
particular the assertion, " I never for an instant lost sight of so and
so," if the " never " extends over any considerable length of time, is
generally, I think, untrue, and is almost certain to be untrue if the
observer has attempted to guard simultaneously against all the ways in
which he conceives that the trick may have been done. I believe that
any one who would endeavour conscientiously to write accounts of what
he saw at a conjuring entertainment would convince himself of this ;
unless he convinced himself—as some Spiritualists have done—that the
conjurer is a medium. On this point I would refer to Mr. S. J. Davey's
experiments (Proceedings, Vol. IV., pp. 405-495), which appear to me
to prove conclusively that intelligent persons thinking that they have
the conditions under their own control may not only be taken in, but
may believe the event to have occurred in such a way as to render the
particular trick actually practised impossible.
In the particular case of spirit photography there are several things
which seem to make it especially hard to detect trickery. One is, the
supplement.) On Spirit PTwtographs. 277
great complication of the process of photography and the number of
,ways in which sham ghost pictures may be done. Then, again, if the
watcher be also the sitter, there are special difficulties in the way of his
observation. For instance, "M.A. (Oxon.)" tells us in Human Nature
for September 1st, 1874, p. 395, of a certain photograph of which he
gives a copy :—" This particular group was taken under strict test con
ditions. Dr. Speer and I followed the plate throughout. . . . We
never lost sight of the plate from the very first, and can give unhesitat
ing testimony that no suspicious element presented itself." But it is
obvious from the plate itself that neither Dr. Speer nor "M.A. (Oxon.)"
were looking at the camera while the photograph was taken, and "M.A.
(Oxon.)" at any rate was not looking at the photographer. Trickery is,
of course, also made immensely easier by the fact that the photo
grapher is under no necessity to produce a Spirit Photograph at all if
detection would follow.
Taking everything into consideration, I do not think that the non-
detection by experts affords sufficiently strong ground for believing that
the photographers in question have sometimes produced genuine Spirit
Photographs.
We have next to consider whether the recognition of portraits of
spirits affords the required evidence of genuineness. This is not quite
the simple question it looks, and incidentally the discussion of it has
an important bearing on another branch of Spiritualistic evidence—
the supposed materialisation of recognised spirit friends.
In the first place we must observe that a large proportion of the
spirit photographs ' were definitely unrecognised1 ; and many photo
graphs were recognised which never ought to have been. As "M.A.
(Oxon.)" says (Human Nature for May, 1875, p. 202):—
"Some people would recognise anything. A broom and a sheet are quite
enough to make up a grandmother for some wild enthusiasts who go with
the figure in their eye, and see what they wish to see. ... I have had
pictures that might be anything in this or any other world sent to me, and
gravely claimed as recognised portraits ; palpable old women authenticated as
'my spirit brother dead seventeen years, as he would have been if he had,'
&c."
When " M.A. (Oxon.) " was compiling his papers on spirit photo
graphy for Human Nature, some 460 photographs came under his
notice, mostly, I think, sent by persons who thought them interesting,
so that these 460 must be considered as a selected lot. Out of these,
1 Buguet (see Prods desSpirites) named 50, 60, and 70 per cent, to clients on different
occasions as the proportion of his successes. Thesenumbers may be taken as the largest
numbers he dared give without risking being afterwards regarded as an impostor.
Probably the actual proportion which were thought to be recognised was much smaller.
278 [Supplement.
.flfrs. H. Sidgwick.
he could only select 90, or about one-fifth, for description, as being
either distinctly recognisable or done under conditions such as, in his
opinion, excluded trickery, and of these 90 I think some 82 are counted
mainly because they were recognised. For evidential purposes this
number must be considerably reduced, especially when it is remembered
that even when a recognised likeness was obtained it was very seldom
that of a particular person previously expected. " M.A. (Oxon.) "
says (Human Nature for June, 1876, p. 268) : " Out of some 600
photographs which I have seen and examined, and of most of which
I have heard the history, I do not know of half a dozen in which the
expected form appeared." And if I may infer from "M.A. (Oxon's.) "
descriptive lists which the half-dozen are, I should add that in only
one of these does it seem to me that there is not reason, apart from
the success, for thinking that the photographer knew beforehand what
was expected.
I think that we must as a general rule regard recognition as
evidentially unimportant in the following cases :—
(1) Spirit portraits of well-known or historical people and leading
Spiritualists—Dumas, Judge Edmonds, Allan Kardec, Livingstone,
President Lincoln, <fec.
(2) Photographs of near connexions of well-known Spiritualists,
since it would clearly be natural for a fraudulent spirit photographer
to make himself acquainted by sight with as many Spiritualists as he
can, and to obtain likenesses of their deceased relatives.
(3) Cases where an appointment made in advance or a second
visit gives a chance of preparation—especially if such appointment has
been made at the suggestion of, or through another medium, who may
be in collusion.1 If it be urged against this that it would, in many
cases, be difficult for the fraudulent photographer to procure a likeness
of a deceased friend of his sitter, it may be replied that this very fact
may be the reason why distinctly recognisable spirit photographs of
departed friends were not more often produced. In some cases it is
easy to obtain photographs of persons not long dead ; and with regard
to those who died before photography was known it may be remarked
that the length of time since they were seen is sure to have caused
their features to have faded somewhat from their friends' memories,
and a portrait having a family likeness to the sitter might easily be
produced by the photographer, and would in some instances pass
muster as a likeness. We have to keep clearly before our minds that
1 This excludes such a case as Mumler's photograph of Mr. Dow and Mabel
Warren ; also such a case as Mr. Livermore's, who obtained an unrecognised figure
at his first visit to Mumler, and, when he came again (on which occasion he thinks he
was recognised), obtained a likeness of his wife.
supplement.] On Spirit Photographs. 279
the photographer is under no obligation to produce a spirit photograph,
that, if he does produce it, it need not be a likeness, and that it would
not have told against him with Spiritualists had he produced what
was taken for a double of the sitter.
After cutting out the three groups above mentioned, there doubt
less still remains a residuum to be accounted for ; this, however,
must be yet further reduced owing to certain considerations as to
the value of recognition, which I shall now proceed to discuss. In
doing so I shall quote as instances of possibly inadequate recognition
photographs of which some would, probably, even if really recognised,
be excluded from an evidential list on one of the above-mentioned
grounds.
One important consideration is that in the majority of spirit photo
graphs the head is surrounded by white drapery in a way which we
never see in real life, and which, therefore, makes recognition more
difficult. This unaccustomedness of the appearance seems to me to
interfere with the reality of the recognition in several published
cases. Thus, Mr. Sutherland (see Human Nature for November,
1874, pp. 474, 475) says of an alleged photograph of his mother :
"I do not think anyone but myself could have recognised this
photograph owing to the unaccustomed appearance." In a photo
graph representing his sister he touched in the hair as it was habit
ually worn by her in earth-life, and in this condition it was at
once recognised. But perhaps it was then recognised by the hair,
and if he had touched in the hair in the way it was worn by
some other relative it might have been recognised as that other.
" M.A. (Oxon.) " quotes as recognised other cases where I cannot
think the recognition was adequate. Thus I cannot think the likeness
was clear which Madame Brocard Boulland discovered after a quarter
of an hour's examination. (Human Nature, January, 1875, p. 20.)
Nor am I satisfied with the identification of an alleged portrait of Mr.
Wallace's mother, of which he says, in his Miracles and Modern
Spiritualism, pp. 190, 191, footnote:—
" I recognised none of these figures in the negatives ; but the moment I
got the proof the first glance showed me that the third plate contained an
unmistakable portrait of my mother,—like her both in features and
expression ; not such a likeness as a portrait taken during life, but a some
what pensive, idealised likeness—yet still to me an unmistakable likeness. The
second figure is much less distinct ; the face is looking down ; it has a
different expression to the other, so that I at first concluded it was a different
person. . . . On sending the two . . . portraits to my sister, she
thought that the second was much more like my mother than the third—was,
in fact, a good likeness, though indistinct, while the third seemed to her to
be like in expression but with something wrong about the mouth and chin.
This was found to be due, in part, to the filling up of spots by the photo
280 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
grapher ; for when the picture was washed it became thickly covered with
whitish spots, but a better likeness of my mother." His brother writes to
him : "I looked at the photograph attentively, and recognised your face, and
remarked that the other one was something like Fanny (my sister). I then
handed it across the table to Mrs. W. and she exclaimed at once, ' Why,
it's your mother ! ' We then compared it with a photograph of her we had
here and there could be no doubt of the general resemblance, but it has an
appearance of sickness or weariness." "M.A. (Oxon.) " calls it (Human
Nature, November, 1874, p. 479) "a very clear spirit form."
Recognitions depending on peculiarities of dress are of very doubt
ful value. I cannot regard it as beyond the range of coincidence that
Mr. S. C. Hall's father should be represented with a pig-tail (which was
practically the only point of identification), since pig-tails were the
ordinary costume not so very long ago, even if Mr. Hall's father was
one of the last to wear them ; nor that Dr. Dixon's son should appear
to be draped in a " hood and mantle in one," a costume which it appears
he had much approved of in his earth-life.
Another possible source of error has been suggested, namely, that
when the sitter and his friends set to work to guess whom among their
deceased friends a spirit photograph represents, with the idea that it
probably represents one of them, a comparatively small amount of
resemblance may mislead and satisfy them. This may explain the
likeness of Dr. Thomson's mother. Dr. Thomson's mother had died
at his birth, 44 years before, and there was no picture of her. He
obtained a spirit photograph which he did not recognise, and sent it to
his uncle, "simply asking him," he says, " to let me know if he recog
nised in the figure any resemblance to any of my relations who have
died, and he has written to say that he recognises in it the likeness
of my mother."1
There is another possibility in this and other cases, namely, that a
sketch or altered photograph of the sitter himself adapted to pass as
a mother or sister may serve as a model for the spirit and be recog
nised from family likeness. I think the evidence about Mr. Wallace's
mother suggests this, and the following case, related by Mr. Beattie,
does so also. He tells us in a paper on the philosophy of spirit photo
graphy (see Spiritual Magazine for January, 1873, p. 26) that he has
before him, as he writes, two photographs of the same gentleman. In
one of them is, he says, a figure, "clearly from an etching of a face,
1 These are Dr. Thomson's own words (see Spiritual Magazine for October, 1873,
p. 475), and I may notice by the way that the field of inquiry suggested by them is very
much narrower than that implied in " M.A. (Oxon.)V' version. " He sent the photo
graph to his uncle in Scotland, saying that he was sorry he could not recognise it.
The reply was that that was not surprising, seeing that the figure was that of Dr.
Thomson's own mother, who died at his birth." (Human Nature, October, 1874, p.
42G.)
supplement.] On Spirit Photographs. 281
with a profile type exactly like his own ; in the other, there is a stand
ing figure extremely tall and ill-defined. In both cases it is said to
he his mother. A first-class artist examined them with me, and no
likeness could be discovered between the two." The photograph, already
referred to, which Buguet did for M. Brocard Boulland again suggests
this procedure. He says :—
" Two days after I went again to M. Buguet and he gave me my photo
graph ; I examined it with the most minute and scrupulous attention. I
admit that the white hair bothered me a little ; but all at once I recognised my
mother, smiling at me with the same smile that she had when on this earth.
. . . I should further add that it matters not to whom I show this photo
graph ; everybody sees between us a resemblance which was frequently
observed in life."
The difficulty of trusting to recognitions is yet further increased by
a curious piece of evidence that came out at the Buguet trial. A
photograph had been taken by Buguet, which " M.A. (Oxon.)," before
Buguet's detection, speaks of as (Human Nature for February, 1875,
p. 82) " perhaps the most remarkable spirit-picture with which I am
acquainted." . . . "The face is the thoroughly developed face of a
living man, every feature distinct, more so, in fact, than the faces of the
sitters." A copy of the photograph accompanies " M.A. (Oxon.)'s "
article, so that all can see for themselves how clear it is. The process
of photographing was carefully watched by the sitters,1 and this spirit
photograph was recognised by several persons as the likeness of a
Monsieur Edouard Poiret, who died at Pimprez (Oise) twelve years
before.2 But this same photograph was also recognised by a M. Raymond
as that of his father-in-law, still alive at Dreux, who was much
annoyed at being sold about as a spirit before his time. M. Raymond
had taken steps to stop the sale of the photograph and gave evidence
on the subject at the trial. Now what happened in this case 1 Were
M. Poiret and M. Raymond's father-in-law exactly alike, or were some
1 Monsieur Carre", Colonel d'Artillerie, said at the trial of Buguet : "Nous avons
pris la plfique nous-memes ; nous l'avons vu mettre dans le chassis, que nous n'avons
pas laisse" un instant ; en un mot, nous avons suivi et termini l'op^ration entifere avec
le photographe ; . . . Buguet n'a pas opere"." (Procis des Spirites, p. 47.) M. Coohet
(p. 54) says much the same : "J'ai vu nettoyer la plaque; . . .. j'Stais derrifere
les operateurs et aucun detail ne m'a ^chappe\ Buguet ne prit part aux operations
que pour mettre l'appareil au point."
5 The evidence of several persons was brought to this at the trial. Thus M.
Bastian, aged 70, says : "Or, j'ai parfaitement reconnu dans cette photographie . . .
le portrait de M. Poiret, un de mes amis avec qui j'ai vecu pendant pres de trente ans."
[Proces des Spirites, p. 55.) In his written testimony M. Bastian uses the expression,
" Avait une grande ressemblance." Others say, " beaucoup de ressemblance," " quel-
que ressemblance " (this was said by M. Poiret's nephew), " a peu pres la ressem
blance," " reconnu ... la ressemblance " (p. 177).
282 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgvrick.
of the witnesses mistaken in their recognition of this very definite
likeness 1 1
Of course I do not mean to draw the inference that no evidence
could be obtained from recognition of spirit photographs. But I think
that we have not got, and that it is very difficult to obtain, evidence
of sufficient quality and quantity to carry conviction, considering the
character of the photographers. For good evidence we must, in the
first place, be sufficiently well acquainted with the witness to estimate
his recognition rightly. Secondly, we must be very certain that by no
means could the photographer have acquired a knowledge of what the
spirit photographed was like. Thirdly, we must be sure that the
spirit was not like enough to the sitter for the portrait of the latter
dressed up in spirit drapery to be mistaken for the spirit's. Fourthly,
we must have a sufficient number of likenesses clearly to exclude
accidental coincidences like that of Monsieur Poiret.
We have still to consider the evidence for spirit photographs
obtained without the presence of a professional spirit photographer.
Several accounts of attempts to obtain them under these conditions
have been published.
Dr. Williams, of Haywards Heath (see Spiritual Magazine, Sep
tember, 1873, p. 423 ; Human Nature, May, 1875, p. 200 ; Miracles and
Modern Spiritualism, p. 193), succeeded, after eighteen months' experi
menting, and exposing some hundreds of plates, in obtaining three plates
with what appeared a part of a human form, one of them having " the
1 There undoubtedly is a great deal of apparent evidence to recognition as regards
Buguet—especially in the correspondence abouthis photographs published in the Prods
des Spirites—& great deal even after eliminating cases where only nine people out of
twelve recognise the likeness, or when some of those who ought best to know hesitate
about it. And there are one or two cases of scars, of attitudes, of bare places on the
head where a lock of hair had been cut off after death. One would like to see these
photographs and know how definite they really were.
It must be remembered that if one frequently sees a portrait of an absent person,
one's recollection is of the portrait, not really of the original, so that once a person
had clearly made up his mind as to the likeness, his recollection of the original would
adapt itself. It is not, surprising, therefore, that the recognisers should not be shaken
by Buguet's confession. As to the original recognition, cases like that of Poiret, and
cases where the sitter does not recognise the portrait, but writes afterwards to say that
several of his neighbours see in it a likeness of A. B. who died in his village some
years ago—suggest that some of us are made sufficiently on the same model for it to
be possible to buy a ready-made portrait like ready-made boots, provided the scale be
small; and it is observable that Buguet told M .Boyard (Prodsdes Spirites, p. 123) that
for large photographs '' il lui fallait de"penser beaucoup plus de fluide ; que cela lui
occasionait beaucoup de fatigue, et qu'il avait besoin apres d'un ou deux jours de
repos." Why this should be on the hypothesis of genuineness it is difficult to see,
since we cannot really suppose that the spirit makes itself up larger in order to be
photographed on a larger scale. But why, if it was all fraud, Buguet should prefer
doing small ones, is obvious.
Supplement.] On Spirit Photographs. 283
features distinctly marked, the eyes and nose being very plain." On a
fourth plate he perceived a well-formed figure of a man standing at the
side of and looking at the sitter. He " saw it distinctly for several
seconds, and after examining it proceeded to strengthen it by further
developing, which," he continues, " I succeeded in doing, when all at
once it faded away before my eyes, and nothing is now to be seen of
it." It may, therefore, have been either a hallucination or an illusion,
and I suspect that the three earlier ones were not beyond the range of
some accidental flaw resembling part of a human figure.
The following experience, of which we received the account only
a few weeks ago, may be compared with Dr. Williams's :—
March 15th, 1891.
One fine summer's afternoon in July or August, 1888, I decided to be
photographed in the small yard at the back [of the house] with my baby boy
on my shoulders. His mother, as you know, had died eighteen months
before, leaving me a widower at 27 years of age, with a boy scarcely a
fortnight old. I prepared the apparatus, focussed it, and instructed my
'' buttons " how to expose the plate and then took up my position with
the child crowing with delight as he occupied so prominent a part in the
affair. In a few seconds the sun had done its share, whereupon I retired
to the dark room to develop the "picture." I was watching the plate,
as I slowly agitated the solution it was in, with deep interest to see with
what success we were to be repaid for the trouble, when suddenly there
appeared before my startled eyes the form and lineaments of my dead wife !
It was there and then and has been ever since absolutely inexplicable. The
very idea was entirely unthought of and unknown to me. I had not then
even heard of any such thing as spirit photography.
Her portrait appeared just behind myself and child, between us and an
ivy-clad wall. It became clearer, and then slowly faded, though still dis
cernible. When I had passed the plate through the hyposulphite of soda,
washed it, and took it to the daylight, the likeness was no longer traceable.
As a photograph it was wretched, owing to over exposure and the child
having moved. Business occupations soon caused me to forget the incident
and the plate was probably thrown away with other bad ones. Six months
or a year after that Dr. P. was visiting me, and knowing he believed in spirit
apparitions I told him the above particulars. He was deeply interested in
the occurrence and asked me to seek for the plate. I did so, but never
found it. That is all.
I was then, and still am, incredulous as to the power of spirits departed
to reappear in a spiritual imitation of a material form, and am inclined to
consider the "vision" referred to above similar to those faces and forms
that I, for one, can see in nearly any wall paper of fantastic design, if
so desirous.
Mr. Christian Reimers is quoted as having been successful in obtain
ing spirit photographs in private, but I have never seen any good account
of them. "M.A. (Oxon.)" quotes in Human Nature, May, 1875, from Mr.
Reimer's account, but gives, I think, a wrong reference. If they are the
284 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
photographs referred to by Mr. Reimers, in Prods des Spirites, p. 150, as
I presume they are, they were, I think, "done with Firman, a fraudulent
and exposed medium, as sitter, and suggest the procedure described in
Confessions of a Medium. I find a brief account of the experiments
in the Spiritualist for May 15th, 1874, p. 238, quite insufficient as to
details.
Mr. Thomas Slater, optician, of 136, Euston-road, obtained recog
nised likenesses of dead friends, but he, again, has not, so far as I have
been able to discover, published sufficient details to enable one to judge
of the conditions under which they were obtained. He and his family
were, I believe, themselves mediums and required no extraneous assist
ance.
M. Augustin Boyard (Ingenieur des Arts et Manufactures et
Chimiste, 104, Avenue de la Reine, a Bruxelles) says that he obtained
at different times apparitions on plates, of which he had shown the
best to photographers and chemists without their being able to explain
it. It could not come, they thought, " d'une image mal effacee d'un
cliche' anterieur." (Proces des Spirites, pp. 122-124.) He gives an
account of his experiments in the Revue Spirite for November, 1874,
but again, I think, a quite inadequate one. We have no proof that
a trick was not practised upon him, and the account seems to me to
,suggest a considerable probability that it was.
But the series of experiments on which more stress has been laid
than on any other are those of Mr. Beattie, of Clifton. M. Aksakoff
regards his results as the foundation-stone of the whole phenomenal
region of mediumistic materialisations in general and of transcendental
photographs in particular (Psychische Studien for May, 1886, p. 210),
and Mr. Wallace calls them, in his article in the Arena, p. 143, "per
haps the most remarkable series of experiments ever made on this sub
ject." Mr. Beattie, whom I have already mentioned more than once,
was a retired photographer who enjoyed, I believe, the respect of all who
knew him. Disgusted with the evident signs of fraud in some of Hud
son's photographs, he determined to experiment in the subject himself.1
Accordingly, in 1872, he arranged with an intimate friend, Mr. Butland,
a good trance medium, to aid him in his experiments. Dr. Thomson and
Mr. Tommy also joined him. He "next went to Mr. Josty, a professional
photographer, and arranged with him for the use of his studio, glass,
instruments, and such assistance from himself " as might be required.
1 His accounts of his experiments are to be found in the Spiritualist for July 15th,
1872, and in the BritishJournal ofPhotography,1872 and 1873, &n&theSpiritualMagazine
forSeptember,1872,and November,1873. An account by Dr. Thomson is given by "M.A.
(Oxon.)," in Human Nature, for September, 1874, but it is less full than Mr. Beattie's,
and makes no mention of Mr. Josty, whose importance in these experiments has been
unaccountably ignored.
supplement.] On. Spirit Photographs. 285
(Spiritualist, July, 1872, p. 55.) Mr. Beattie tells us nothing about
Mr. Josty or what previous acquaintance he had with him.
The first day, in nine exposures, nothing of interest occurred. The
second day, on the ninth exposure, an abnormal appearance developed
itself, which they could not account for. Up to this time Mr. Josty
had laughed at the whole affair, but this appearance, Mr. Beattie tells,
us, staggered him a little. On the third day an appearance presented
itself which gradually changed and developed on successive plates.
During one of the exposures, Mr. Josty, having uncapped the lens,
suddenly went into a trance, from which he awoke much frightened.
" After that took place, for the rest of the evening, he could not be
induced even to touch the camera or slide, he was so superstitiously
afraid." The next day no results were obtained ; the next time
twelve exposures were made with no results, and at length, both Mr.
Josty and Mr. Butland being entranced, Mr. Josty, after uncapping the
lens, moved to join the sitters during the exposure ; on this occasion
a white figure came out in front of him, just leaving his head exposed.
Mr. Josty did not, he said, remember having placed himself among the
sitters. After this, it seems to have been arranged that Mr. Josty
should sit with the circle, Dr. Thomson uncapping the lens. Mr.
Josty described during three exposures fogs which came out aa
described, and Mr. Butland said on one occasion that he saw a figure.
before him which duly appeared on the plate. At the next seance
there was only one result out of fifteen attempts ; and at the
next, strange flames, we are told, in each case minutely described by
both mediums as to number, position, and brightness during exposure.
At the last seance three exposures succeeded out of twenty-one. Mr.
Beattie says that he himself did " all the photographic manipulating,"
and that they " closed every door from which there was the remotest,
suspicion of wrong getting entrance."
In 1873 the experiments were repeated "along with the same
gentleman and under the same conditions." The description published
of this second series is less complete than the first, though the results,
would appear to have been more striking. This time, as before, the
failures far exceeded the successes. There were two mediums present,
presumably Mr. Butland and Mr. Josty again. " The medium next
the background, we are told, became entranced and then by his influence
he caused the other to pass into some strange, spiritual condition," from
which description, in connection with what we are told about the two in
the account of the series of 1872, I infer that the second was Mr.
Josty. He used to describe during the exposure the appearances
which were ultimately found on the plates, generally strange lights of
varying shapes, developing through a series of three or four exposures.
On one occasion he said " it rose up and over another person's arms,.
286 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
coming from his own boot," which seems a pretty definite placing of it.
On another occasion one medium said he saw a black figure and the
other a light one. Both appeared on the plate but rather faintly, the
light one indefinite in form.
The result of the two series consists, I believe, of thirty-two success
ful photographs, but of these I have only seen sixteen which are repro
duced in Psychische Studien for April, 1886, and in M. AksakofF's
Animismus und S]nritismus. The figures on these are vague splotches
of light, such as it appears to me might have resulted from some method
of letting light fall on the sensitised plate through a crack or chink of
some sort. One of these looks rather like a dragon, and some have
forms vaguely resembling the human form, but so vaguely that one feels
the resemblance might well have been accidental. If we can suppose
that Mr. Josty was deceiving the others, these vague figures are just
what it would probably be easiest for him to produce ; and as the room
and apparatus used were his, and as it is clear from Mr. Beattie's
account that the camera and plates were not kept out of his hands
altogether, it is most important to know whether he was a man who
could be completely trusted. We accordingly made inquiries at Bristol
through an Associate of the Society residing there, who wrote on January
27th, 1886: "I have tracked Josty to the workhouse, a natural and
fitting conclusion to his career, according to all accounts. He had long
been going down hill ; was drunken, insolvent, and in money matters
quite unscrupulous, having still many unpaid debts about here." Under
these circumstances, deceit by Mr. Josty appears to me to be too probable
a hypothesis to make it possible to attach much importance to Mr.
Beattie's experiments as evidence of spirit photography. It is true
that the description given beforehand by Mr. Josty, and sometimes by
Mr. Butland, of the position and number of the figures counts for some
thing evidentially. But if Mr. Josty was playing tricks he would
naturally have some information as to this ; and we do not know that
on the comparatively rare occasions when Mr. Butland mentioned
them he did so without suggestion from Mr. Josty.
I have still to speak of one series of experiments, that of Dr. N.
"Wagner, Professor of Zoology at St. Petersburg, made in 1881, and
described in Psychische Studien for May, 1886, and in M. Aksakoff's
Animismus und Spiritismus. Professor Wagner was making experi
ments in the hopes of proving a theory of his that when a person is
hypnotised a psychical self can separate itself and assume a form
which, though invisible, can be photographed. He was entirely
unsuccessful in this, but in the course of the experiments he obtained
on one plate (out of 18 taken under the same conditions) a white mark,
resembling a hand with part of a full sleeve, some distance on the plated
above the portrait of the hypnotised sitter, Madame de Pribitkow.
Supplement.] 287
On Spirit Photographs.
The resemblance to a hand at once strikes everyone who sees the
photograph, though it is very ill-defined and on more careful inspection
is seen to be badly formed. The experiment is more carefully de
scribed by the persons present than such experiments generally have
been, though there is no indication that the accounts were written at
the time. From what we are told, taken in connection with the
photograph itself, of which a reproduction is given by M. Aksakoff,
it is almost impossible to suppose that any one concerned practised any
deception. Moreover, the camera was a stereoscopic one, and Professor
Wagner states that the same appearance showed itself on both
halves of the plate, so that it cannot have been due to a flaw on the
plate itself or to an accident in developing ; it must, it would seem,
have been caused by light reflected from some external object and
passed through the lens. Perhaps if the photograph were a better
one—it was not sufficiently exposed and the definition is very bad—we
might be able to discover what the object was ; and if we had both halves
of the stereoscopic photograph (only one of which has been reproduced
in M. Aksakoffs book) it might enable us to discover the position of this
object relatively to the medium—whether, for instance, it could be an
accidental reflection off something in the background. But in any case
it must, I think, be held as more probable that a single photograph like
this is due to accident than to spirits, until more experimental proof
of so-called spirit photography, produced under circumstances where
trickery is out of the question, is forthcoming.
Appendix.
It should be mentioned that "M.A. (Oxon.)'s" belief in Buguet
rested on evidence somewhat different in kind from any that has been
discussed in this paper, and depending on a special experience of his
own interesting enough to be worth describing here, though not, as I
think, leading to belief in Buguet as a legitimate conclusion.
Likenesses of a living, but absent, sister obtained through Buguet
by the Comte de Bullet suggested to "M.A. (Oxon.)" that he might
obtain a spirit photograph of himself. He therefore arranged with
Mr. Gledstanes to go to Buguet's studio in Paris at a given hour to try
for this. (See Human Nature for March, 1875, p. 97, et seq.) Mr.
Gledstanes did so on January 31st, 1875, and the Comte de Bullet
was also present. No mention is made of precautions to prevent
Buguet's knowing what was expected, but it is not stated that he was
told. Buguet had photographed " M.A. (Oxon.)" in London in July,
1874. (See Human Nature for January, 1875, p. 13.) "M.A. (Oxon.)"
was at the time of the present experiment lying on his bed in London
288 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
in a state of deep trance. The following is his description of the
results obtained :—
" On the first half of the plate first exposed appeared a faint and indis
tinct image of my face. The features were barely discernible, but Mr.
Gledstanes has no doubt that they are mine. A second exposure . .
produced a perfect result. The first half of the plate contains a decided
likeness of me ; the second half one of an old man. . . . The portrait of
me is quite unmistakable. . . . The form gives the idea of being smaller
than I am naturally, and the features are those of an entranced person."
So far there is no particular difficulty in accounting for the occurrence
by fraud. But now comes the confirmation. " M.A. (Oxon.)" was at
that time in the habit of receiving communications by means of a
voice not audible to others, but appearing to come from a distance.
On the morning after the photographing, before he received any news
from Paris, this voice informed him, and by automatic writing it was
noted in his book, that :—
" Two exposures had been made . . . but only the second was impor
tant. On the first half of the plate was a good picture of me as I appeared
personally . . . and on the other half the picture of the spirit who had
arranged and carried out the operation." 1
Here, therefore, there are four correspondences between what " M.A.
(Oxon.)" seemed to know about the thing, and what actually happened,
viz.: (1) that there were two exposures, (2) the first unimportant, (3)
the second a good likeness of "M.A. (Oxon.)" as to its first half, and (4)
with another figure on its second half. If it be regarded as very
improbable that this amount of correspondence should occur by chance,
we shall have at any rate evidence of something like thought-trans
ference or clairvoyance. But I am not sure that it is beyond chance.
It was not uncommon to make two exposures, and that the first should
be a failure. Nor was it unusual to obtain a second figure. Still, the
incident is undoubtedly interesting, and goes to support some other
evidence that in the trance state "M.A. (Oxon.)" could become aware of
what was happening at a distant place where his thoughts were.
To "M.A. (Oxon.)" himself the evidence afforded by this incident of
1 Another peculiar incident occurred in connexion with this, which, however, does
not, I think, materially affect the question of the genuineness of the photograph. The
information was further given to " M.A. (Oxon.) " that his spirit was after the photo
graphing taken to the rooms of a friend of his. And he learnt from the said friend
that at the hour in question "he became powerfully impressed with the conviction
that I was near, or was about to enter the room. He looked round more than once,
expecting to see me, and the impression was so strong that he noted the exact time,
and conveyed his impression to me the same evening, remarking that it struck him as;
curious, considering that his mind was occupied with other subjects." If the friend,
was unaware that "M.A. (Oxon.)" was engaged in any special manner at the time this
looks like a telepathic incident.
supplement.] On Spirit Photographs. 289
the genuineness of spirit photography is of a different kind. I do not
consider with my present knowledge that there is sufficient reason to
conclude that his " guides " are external to himself ; but he firmly
believes that they are external, that he has known them long and
tested their veracity, so that to him what he seems to learn from them
comes with the strength of a friend's assertion. He believes that the
photograph was a genuine photograph of his " double " because his
" guides " told him so.
IT
290 [Supplement.
H. E. Wvngfidd.
in.
NOTICES OF BOOKS.
The'rapeutique Suggestive : son Micanisme. By Dr. A. A. Li£beault.
(Paris, 1891.)
Dr. Liebeault's new book will be read with interest by all students of the
subject. It is almost entirely devoted to the therapeutic value of hypnotism,
and is, of course, a most important contribution to the subject. The first
part deals exclusively with hypnotism in its medical aspect, while the last is
devoted to the discussion of hypnotic phenomena.
Dr. Liebeault gives us a selection of cases which, we may suppose, are
types of those with which he has dealt during his long experience, and which
will form a valuable index of the kind of cases in which hypnotism may be
tried.
While all will probably acknowledge that many forms of nervous disease
arise from a more or less disordered state of mind, it is somewhat startling
to find that he believes that many organic diseases—even cancer—may arise
from this source. He believes that disease may be produced by the mind
being unduly directed to, or withdrawn from, the various organs of the body.
He assumes that in health the attention has a certain normal distribution, any
disturbance of which will produce a functional disturbance, and, possibly, an
organic change in the part in question. This idea—that health is maintained
in this manner—is so novel that it is scarcely possible to accept it at once ;
and, indeed, in most cases of disease one finds no evidence of any mental
disturbance having originated it, so that there is much difficulty in accepting
such disturbance as a cause which usually gives rise to diseases. In the pro
duction of certain diseases, indeed, mental distress seems to have a large share
—e.g., in diabetes; but can anyone imagine that the disease is due to mal-
attention, either conscious or unconscious, of the affected organs, or perhaps
one might say, in many cases, the disordered function 1 It seems, at present,
at least premature to make dogmatic statements with regard to these points.
Dr. Liebeault then gives his results in a large number of cases treated by
suggestion. Many of them are most remarkable, but it would be out of place
to give an account of them in these Proceedings. The most remarkable cases
are, to my mind, those of amemia, of which he mentions 39 cases. Of these
sixteen cases were radically cured, 4 probably cured, and the symptoms in 11
others were either alleviated or temporarily dispelled. Such a result appears
totally inexplicable with our present knowledge.
He gives a case which is interesting and also more or less noteworthy, as
showing a certain fallacy against which one must carefully guard. He
attempted to cure a goitre by suggestion, and in this case the patient, after a
time, believed that the swelling had vanished, though, in reality, it remained
unaffected. It has often struck me that when patients treated hypnotically
say they are getting better their improvement is really imaginary, though
Supplement.] 291
Notices of Books.
this result is by no means to be despised. Dr. Liebeault believes that this
case was really the result of a badly given suggestion, or of mal-interpreta-
tion on the part of the subject ; but it is obvious that, in those cases where
symptoms are described by the patient, and whose disease cannot be demon
strated to the eye of the physician, such a result may very possibly occur.
He records an instance of drunkenness, in which the effect of alcohol was
dissipated by self-suggestion. I have myself, on one occasion, apparently pro
duced sobriety in a drunken man by first commanding him to sleep and then
suggesting that he was sober, and immediately waking him up.
One instance of acute mania is recorded as cured, and one only. It
seems disappointing to find hypnotism, so far, so inefficient a remedy against
serious mental disorder. The author has only once tried to hypnotise an
idiot, and on one occasion a child, aged 12, who was more or less imbecile.
He failed in both cases, but is not at present inclined to believe that it is
not possible to hypnotise imbecile subjects.
The rest of the cases recorded, and there are a very large number,
illustrate a large variety of kinds. One, a case of phthisis—treated by
suggestion—though, of course, not cured, yet became much better and
stronger ; and this case is illustrative of one of the effects of hypnotic treat
ment, which must have struck all who have visited Nancy. I often noticed
how very cheerful many of the patients seemed, and to remove mental
distress is obviously not only of great service in diminishing suffering, but,
as is well known, removes a hindrance to recovery in an immense number of
cases. In fact it is not impossible that, if hypnotism came into vogue in this
country, its main use would be to bring this about.
Turning to the other subjects of which Dr. Liebeault treats, the most
remarkable, and almost the most puzzling, chapter is on " Zoomagnetism."
Dr. Liebeault wished to find out by a crucial test whether the so-called
"magnetised water" had any real effect or no. He therefore tried it as a
therapeutic agent in infants, and made a series of control experiments with
ordinary " unmagnetised " water. I need scarcely say that he found no
difference between the two, but it is absolutely astounding to read that he
found both (when combined with suggestion of the most indirect and concealed
nature) to act as real therapeutic agents. This was the case, it must be
remembered, on infants only a few months old. He concludes that infants
are susceptible to curative suggestion ; a view which is so important, as well
from a scientific as a medical aspect, that it is much to be regretted that he
will be unable to continue his researches. The only objection which one can
see, is that it is conceivable that recovery took place in these cases simply in
the course of nature, and not owing to the treatment ; but some of the cases
are so striking that this appears unlikely in the highest degree.
In the chapter on lucidity are recorded some experiments in clairvoyance
and hypnotism at a distance. The latter deserves special notice on account
of the extreme rarity of authenticated instances. Camille S. was the subject
of experiments. She had been often hypnotised by M. Beaunis, and he it
was who first succeeded in inducing sleep at a distance in this subject. He
concealed himself in M. Liebeault's garden, and, after a trial of 18 minutes,
induced sleep in Camille at a distance of 29 metres. On another occasion
Dr. Neilson, who had never hypnotised her, tried the same experiment and
U 2
292 [Supplement.
H. E. Wingfidd.
failed. M. Liegeois, who had frequently hypnotised her before, was able to
induce sleep in 8 minutes, when concealed in the same manner, and the sub
ject was apparently en rapport with him alone. In another experiment, M.
Liegeois being in one room and Camille in another, at 24 metres' distance, the
result was negative, after 20 minutes' trial.
These results will, of course, be regarded differently by different in
dividuals. Those who already believe in telepathy will see a fresh confirma
tion of their views, while those who do not as yet see sufficient reason for
belief in its existence, and I must confess that I belong to the latter class, will
wait to see this, and, of course, many other experiments of this kind repeated
again and again, under many different and absolutely strict conditions, before
pronouncing any opinion as to their meaning.
The instance of apparent clairvoyance, or, some will say, spirit message,
is very curious, the message of the death of a friend being received by
automatic writing at the time of death. This case was sent by Dr. Liebeault
to the Society for Psychical Research, and was published in Phantasms of the
Living, Vol. I., p. 293.
It is to be hoped that the book will be widely read by those who use
hypnotism in their medical practice. It is no mere belief in the curative
power of suggestion that 20 years' experience has given to Dr. Liebeault. It
is an absolute conviction in the power of the mind over disease. " . .
Uniquement en concentrant son attention sur l'idee d'etre gueri, Ton peut
devenir plus habile sur son organisme que le plus savant des docteurs avec
1'immense materiels de fioles et de pilules, mis a sa disposition."
To Dr. Liebeault, who has just begun his well-earned rest and retirement,
we owe the fact thac hypnotism is seriously considered by the medical pro
fession in the present day ; and we can only hope that in the interests of
science he will continue to make experiments. Especially is it to be hoped
that he will continue them in the direction of hypnotism at a distance, which
he approaches without a priori beliefs for or against its probability, being
guided entirely by the results of his experiments.
We leave the book in the hope that it will not be the last from the pen of
the father of modern hypnotism.
II. E. Wingfield.
Die Geisterhypothese des Spiritismus und seine Phantome. Von Eduard
von Hartmann. (Leipzig : W. Friedrich. 1891. Pp. 126.)
This work is the third stage of a controversy which has excited great
interest in Spiritist circles. Mr. Myers's review of AksakofFs Animismus
und Spiritismus, in Proceedings XVII., p. 665, will be fresh in the memory of
members of the Society ; and it will be sufficient to recall briefly the facts.
Von Hartmann, in his first tract, Der Spiritismus (1885, not 1888 as obviously
misprinted in Mr. Myers's article) undertook to show that, even accepting
the evidence given by Spiritists as correct, all the phenomena thus attested
could be explained by the assumption of a " nerve-force " exercised by the
medium, together with thought-transference, induced hallucinations, and
clairvoyance, reaching at times even to communication with the source of all
knowledge in the Absolute. He thus maintained that the hypothesis of the
agency of external spirits was at best but a fifth wheel to the cart, and not
Supplement.] 293
Notices of Books.
admissible as an explanation of the facts observed. AksakofPs book was a re
ply, arguing first, that the supposed " nerve-force " would not give a natural
explanation of the alleged phenomena of materialisation ; and secondly, that
thought-transference and induced hallucinations would not explain the cases
in which messages had been given, which transcended the limits of possible
knowledge on the part of the mediums themselves and their sitters.
Of the contest fought under these conditions I agree with Mr. Myers
that Aksakoff has the best of it. Von Hartmann's assumption of the nerve-
force which issues from the body of the medium, and then proceeds to set up
fresh centres of force in all neighbouring objects, animate and inanimate—
even, as he suggests, in the particles floating in the air of the room—while
it still remains under the control of the medium's unconscious will, is, at least
under the present conditions of physics, as unprovable as the theory of
Aksakoff, that the spirits can make for themselves temporary material
organisms out of the matter of the medium's body, and can use it as
the spirit of the living man uses his own body ; one theory can hardly
be considered more "transcendental" than the other. Both contestants
admit, however, that these physical phenomena cannot under any circum
stances afford any positive proof of the existence of the spirits of the
departed ; both agree that such proof can only be found in the establishment
of the individuality of the "spirits " as revealed by the intellectual contents
of the messages which profess to come from them. It is only this part of
the discussion which can be considered to have any immediate practical
importance for those who are endeavouring to approach the question on firm
grounds of evidence rather than of a priori theory ; and it is to this portion
of von Hartmann's book that I propose to confine myself. When physical
phenomena and materialisations are supported by a mass of evidence in any
way comparable to that which has been collected for thought-transference and
telepathy, it will be worth while to look into physical theories of nerve-force.
Meantime, to those who cannot accept, even as a basis for debate, the
testimony which passes muster among Spiritist believers, the discussion of
these questions seems to be little more than a beating of the air.
In his analysis, on the other hand, of the possibilities which have to be
taken into account before we can satisfy ourselves that any particular piece
of knowledge could not have been in the medium's mind when the message
containing it was given, von Hartmann is clearly nearer the truth than
Aksakoff. He has no difficulty in showing, for instance, that the cases
quoted by the latter, where messages were given which were contrary to the
convictions or character of the medium, prove nothing ; for such an opposi
tion between the upper and lower consciousness is now a familiar fact, and
susceptible of experimental proof by means of hypnotism. When we come
to deal with phenomena which show a different mental level between the
two the question becomes more difficult, though essentially analogous. But
here von Hartmann makes one remark which seems to be of wider bearing
than he himself indicates. He is speaking of an alleged case where a girl
who had never learnt music wrote down notes and played them upon the
piano. In playing the piano it is necessary that there should be practice ;
that is, a training of the automatic functions, bringing about a molecular
change in the brain, presumably the establishment of lines of communication
294 [Supplement.
W. Leaf.
between various sub-cortical centres. Until the nervous organism is thus
modified, the brain will not work at the suggestion of any mind, whether of
that which ordinarily dwells in it, or of an external mind which may suc
ceed in taking temporary possession. "Through a nervous system unprepared
by practice, even the most powerful spirit could no more produce a correct
and clean performance on the piano than it could bring clear chords out of a
piano with strings missing and out of tune " (p. 34). Such a case, therefore,
remains inexplicable on any hypothesis, and is no support to the supposition
of the interference of external minds.
This applies with equal force to the accounts of speaking in tongues
unknown to the medium, and, perhaps in a somewhat less degree, to the
many alleged cases of handwriting recognised as that of the departed. It
seems important to keep in mind this preliminary difficulty, which separates
all such cases from those where it is merely the content of the messages, and
not their form which lies outside the range of the medium's powers. If the
evidence for speaking with tongues were better than it is, it might be worth
while to consider how far the hypothesis of auditory hallucination might
explain it. If in cases of telepathic nature it sometimes happens that the
telepathic impact clothes itself in audible words, though in itself consisting
probably only in the suggestion of an idea, it might be conceived that in
cases like that of Mr. Evangelides,1 the idea only of the medium's message
was suggested to him, and that its expression in Greek words was no more
than his own hallucinatory translation of it into thinkable form. It is
certainly remarkable that in every case quoted by Aksakoff where a conversa
tion was held by the medium with a foreigner in his own tongue there seems
to have been no one else present who spoke the language as a native and
could thus act as a check upon the possibility of hallucination. In Mr.
Evangelides' case we have only his own assurance that the language
spoken was Greek. Among the many defects of the evidence on this head
it may be noticed that we are in no case told whether the medium spoke
with the accent of a native or a foreigner ; and yet this is evidently a point
of cardinal importance for the whole question.
Passing from hence into the region of facts which have a large amount
of evidence to support them, the region of communications whose contents
were certainly not in the conscious knowledge either of the medium or of any
one present at the time, von Hartmann's assumptions certainly form a wide-
sweeping net for the capturing of all possible knowledge. The validity of
many of them, most readers of the Proceedings will perhaps be prepared to
admit ; thought-transference between the medium and sitters, induced
hallucinations, the unbounded retentiveness of the "subliminal" memory,2
1 Mr. Evangelides was introduced to Miss Laura Edmonds, and held a conversa
tion in Greek with her, in the course of which he was told that one of his sons was
just dead. A letter confirming the statement came some days afterwards. Judge
Edmonds givea the assurance that his daughter did not know a word of Greek. Here
the reading of the telepathic message and its clothing in speech form two essentially
disparate problems.
2 Von Hartmann rightly insists upon the last of these, which Aksakoff seems to
hive much under-estimated. The phrase " hyperesthesia of memory," however, seems
to connote a morbid state, and is hardly suitable.
Supplement.] 295
Notices of Books.
all these have received more or less experimental confirmation. Between
them they will account for the reproduction of anything that was over in
the mind of anyone present. Nothing of which this can be predicated can
be safely ascribed to the action of any spirit of the departed. A further
source of mundane knowledge is added if we accept telepathy. Here the
evidence is not experimental, and stands on a lower plane. Von Hartmann,
however, not only accepts it, but is prepared to take the further step, and
admit clairvoyance in the most extended sense ; a power in the human
mind of entering into the knowledge of the Absolute, where there is no
longer any past or future, but all things are in the present. If this be once
admitted it is clear that there is no further room for the hypothesis of
spiritual aid in the presenting to us any knowable fact whatever. But the
step is a prodigious one, at least as hard to take as that to the belief in dis
embodied spirits. Is it necessary 1
To me, at least, it seems that von Hartmann has been forced into it by
unduly limiting the range of the powers which he has previously assumed.
In his first work he assumes that telepathic impressions are confined to the
production of hallucinations, and so exposes himself to some telling retorts
from Aksakoff. The assumption is entirely opposed to the evidence. The
instances collected in Phantasms of the Living no doubt show a great pre
ponderance of hallucination (Vol. II., pp. 22-24). But there is abundant
evidence not only for hallucinations, but for all sorts of subjective effects,
ranging from mere malaise to the production of long messages in automatic
writing, and this von Hartmann might admit less hesitatingly than he does
in the work before us. Again, von Hartmann thinks it necessary, in order
to establish a case for telepathic impression, to find some special rapport, a
special direction of the mind of the percipient towards the agent. This,
again, is not required by the evidence. In some of the cases in Phantasms
of the Living the rapport was of the slenderest kind, occasionally, it would
seem, consisting in no more than a familiar knowledge of the same locality
(ii. , 265-289). And finally, von Hartmann seems to have overlooked the
consequences which result from the joint admission of the reality of telepathy
and the infinite retentiveness of the subliminal memory. It can hardly be
doubted that those rare telepathic impressions which rise to the level of con-
ciousness are but a fraction of those which the under-self is continually
receiving. Yet each one of these must be stored up in the unconscious
memory, and be capable of reproduction under favourable circumstances.
If we further admit that the unconscious self is capable of handing on such
impressions, whether by telepathy or thought-transference, though they
have never risen to the level of consciousness, it seems that we have
removed all necessity for the assumption either of spiritual agency or of
clairvoyance, when we have to deal with a piece of knowledge which may at
any time have been in the mind of any living man. The assumption is,
no doubt, a large one, in our present state of knowledge, but it is at least
on the same plane with others which are winning their way to acceptance ;
and it must be fully considered before we pass away to an entirely fresh
level of speculation, as we do when we assume either the agency of disem
bodied spirits with Aksakoff or "telephonic communication through the
Absolute " with von Hartmann.
296 [Supplement.
W. Leaf.
There still remains a field which may in the end oblige us to take one of
these steps ; we may obtain good evidence of the communication of
knowledge which was never in any living mind. Von Hartmann regards the
foretelling of the future as the only "chemically pure" form of clairvoy
ance ; but even here it would seem that chemical purity must be restricted to
the cases, if any, where future events are foretold which do not depend on
the agency of human beings in the present ; for here there is always the
possibility of a shrewd guess by the agency of simple thought-reading. Any
one who had the power of reading all his neighbours' thoughts in a conscious
state would have little difficulty in gaining a solid reputation as a prophet, if
he confined himself to obvious deductions from what he saw. But there is
another form of clairvoyance which seems almost, if not quite, as chemically
pure as the foretelling of future events. This is the discernment of objects
excluded from the range of ordinary sense perception, and removed from the
possibility of knowledge of any human being by some method of purely
random selection. The conditions of such an experiment are fulfilled, for
instance, in Professor Lodge's abortive trial to obtain from Mrs. Piper the
reading of various letters of the alphabet in a closed box, means having been
duly taken to exclude the knowledge of the letters chosen (Proceedings, XVII.,
p. 457). If that experiment had succeeded, it seems that nothing short of
access to some source of pure knowledge independent of human brains could
have explained the phenomenon.
But even granting clairvoyance, von Hartmann argues that it is in no
way explained by the assumption of the intervention of the spirits of the
dead. To suppose that death gives the power of foreseeing the future is to
make an assumption which is not only unproved, but absolutely unprovable ;
whereas the assumption that the minds of the living possess such a power,
if true, is at least capable of proof ; and indeed there is already a certain
amount of evidence to support it. There is left, therefore, as a last support
to the spirit hypothesis the vague test known as the recognition of identity.
This, from its nature, can never be more than subjective, and can convince
no one but those intimately acquainted with the deceased ; and there can
be no doubt that these are the persons who are the most likely to be misled
by illusion or hallucination, penetrated as they are by the desire to be
brought once more in contact with their lost friends.
In fine, then, I, for my own part, think that von Hartmann is assaulting
the Spiritist stronghold on right lines ; but his position seems to require some
material improvement in various points before it can be accepted either as a
logically successful reply to Aksakoff, or as a working hypothesis by which
to examine the evidence. As a philosophical system it cannot as yet be
accepted ; it is based far too largely on worthless testimony. This is, of
course, done knowingly, and for a particular purpose ; and this purpose must
be held to have been fulfilled in having drawn from Aksakoff so sober and
moderate a statement of the Spiritist case. The controversy has unquestion
ably done much to clear the field, and has for the first time, perhaps, shown
the possibility of fair argument on common ground with believers in
Spiritism.
W. Leaf,
General Meetings. 297
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 47th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, July 17th, 1891, at 4 p.m.
The President gave an address on the Census of Hallucinations
now in progress.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers continued his address on Problems of
Personality, begun at the 46th meeting, illustrating it with cases of
apparent communication from the dead by automatic writing. His
remarks are to some extent incorporated in his paper on the Sub
liminal Consciousness printed below.
The 48th General Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,
October 30th, at 4 p.m.
Mr. Myers read an account of his visit to Dr. Backman at
Kalmar in Sweden, printed below.
Some Supplementary Cases of Telepathic Clairvoyance, also printed
below, were read for Mrs. Sidgwick by Mr. Leaf.
Mr. Myers read a paper, printed below, on Movements of objects
occurring under circumstances when the movements could not appar
ently be accounted for by known physical laws.
The 49th General Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,
December 4th, at 8.30 p.m.
Professor Oliver Lodge read a paper on Some Experiments in
Thought-transference, printed below.
Mr. Myers gave an address on " The Mechanism of Suggestion,"
which forms part of his paper on the Subliminal Consciousness
printed below.
The 50th General Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,.
January 29th, 1892, at 4 p.m.
Part of a paper by Mr. Hodgson on Certain Phenomena of Trance
in the case of Mrs. Piper was read by Mr. Leaf.
Mr. Myers gave an address on "The Mechanism of Genius."
The President, Professor Sidgwick, was in the chair on each
occasion.
X
298 F. W. H. Myers.
I.
THE SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS.
By F. W. H. Myers.
Chapter I.—General Characteristics of Subliminal Messages.
Igneus est ollis vigor et Caelestis origo
Seminibus, quantum non noxia corpora tarilant
Terrenique hebetant artus nioribundaque membra.
In the present and some succeeding papers I desire to combine
and to develop various lines of argument which have already been
laid before the readers of these Proceedings.
Since my paper on " The Dasmon of Socrates," published two years
ago, was written, our evidence has grown rapidly in various directions.
Recent experiments and observations have thrown fresh, but scattered
and perplexing lights upon the workings of that part of ourselves
which lies below the threshold of ordinary consciousness. And it
seems to me that some effort at arrangement and generalisation is now
much needed, were it only for the sake of aiding to direct experi
mentation, which is at present, I think, apt to be concentrated on too
small a portion of the widely-opening field.
A few words may remind the reader of the stage which discussion
in these Proceedings has already reached. In four papers, 1884-9, I
have discussed automatic writing, and cognate automatisms, and in the
last of these, Vol. V., p. 522, I sum up the results arrived at, and
indicate that " automatic writing is but one among a whole series of
kindred automatisms," which are "message-bearing or nunciative, inas
much as they present themselves to us as messages communicated from
one stratum to another stratum of the same personality." I then
endeavour to show that such messages may consist equally well of
active, motor automatisms, such as planchette-writing and trance-
utterance, and of passive, sensory automatisms, such as hallucinations,
visual or auditory. I suggest that monitory voices, such as those of
Socrates and Joan of Arc, may form an important class of such
messages from the subjacent Self. And I promise further discussion
on automatic picture-drawing, on trance-utterance, and on cases
indicating the action in these messages of minds external to the
automatist's own.
Now it so happens that almost every Part of the Proceedings
which has since appeared contains matter bearing on one or other of
these points. The crystal-vision dealt with in Part XIV. (Vol. V.,
p. 486) introduces us to a passive mode of getting at pictures from a
subliminal source much more direct and effective than is the drawing
The Subliminal Consciousness. 299
of such pictures by the automatically-moving hand. The trance-
ulterances of Mrs. Piper (discussed in Vol. VI., p. 436, and to be
further noticed) form by far the best specimens of that form of auto
matism which I can anywhere find. And the influence exercised upon
these messages by minds exterior to the automatist's own has been very
fully discussed by Professors James and Lodge, Dr. Leaf, and Dr.
Hodgson. I have, moreover, printed some important cases of this
class in a supplement to my " Defence of Phantasms of the Dead."
(Vol. VI., p. 314.)
It seems, then, that, for the most satisfactory of reasons—namely,
the inflow of fresh evidence from various quarters—the continuance
of my papers on " Automatic Writing " on the precise plan laid down
is no longer appropriate.
My task has become at once in some ways simpler and in some
,ways more difficult. It is simpler, in so far as much which was
altogether denied and scouted when I began the argument has now
found general acceptance. The wide extension of hypnotic experiments
in France and elsewhere has incidentally brought into common know
ledge certain facts not lying on the direct road of therapeutic inquiry,
but essential to the present argument. Thus it is now at any rate
admitted by all serious students that such a phenomenon as automatic
writing does actually exist ; that writing professedly obtained without
the writer's being aware of what he writes is not necessarily the product
of morbid fancy or of semi-conscious fraud. And more than this; it is
now recognised (thanks largely to the work of Gurney in England and
of Pierre Janet in France) that two or more distinct trains of memory,
feeling, will, may co-exist in the same personage, and may become
accessible to us by artifices of various kinds. Thus much I can now
assume as matter of common knowledge; and, so far forth, my task is
simpler than it was a few years ago.
But, on the other hand, the very fact that there are now so many more
observations to be co-ordinated increases the complexity of the inquiry.
For the hypothesis which I have already elsewhere briefly proposed,
and which I shall now have to amplify, aims at nothing less than the
provisional co-ordination of all these subliminal phenomena. I hold
that both that group of facts which the scientific world has now learnt
to accept (as the hypnotic trance, automatic writing, alternations of
personality, and the like), and that group of facts, for which in these
Proceedings we are still endeavouring to win general scientific accept
ance (as telepathy and clairvoyance), ought to be considered in close
alliance and correlation, and must be explained, if explicable at all, by
some hypothesis which does not need constant stretching to meet the
exigencies of each fresh case.
I demur on this ground to the explanations thus far proposed by
x 2
300 F. W. H. Myers.
French savants, whether of the Paris or of the Nancy school, which seem
to me in different ways insufficient. The Nancy school, as is well known,
use the word suggestion as though this were in itself an explanation of
the way in which the phenomena are produced, instead of a mere
definition of the artifice which the operator uses in order to produce
them. Insisting—and I believe with perfect truth—that hypnotism
is in no way a morbid phenomenon, but is producible in sane and
healthy men, they nevertheless seem hardly to think it needful or
possible to inquire how it comes to pass that a sane man's psychical
balance is capable of being thus suddenly disturbed. With the
exception of Professor Delboeuf (not precisely a member of the
Nancy school), to whose ideas we shall hereafter recur, I know of
no writer who, starting from the dictum that hypnotism is not morbid,
has even shown that he feels the need of explaining how a group of
phenomena so extraordinary can spring by natural outgrowth from the
physiological and the psychical life of man.
The Parisian school have in some sense evaded this difficulty ; but
at the cost of a cramping assumption which is now hardly accepted
anywhere beyond the radius of Salpetriere influence. They boldly
affirm that hypnotism is itself a disease,—or at least that its phe
nomena are morbid incidents which may be developed in the course of
hysteria and other nervous degenerations. Having so said, they are in
a sense absolved from further explanation. They are bound, indeed,
to show that these phenomena form some regular pathological series,—
resemble in some way the course of a real malady. Their attempts to
do this—to produce a classical type of hypnotism, with definite stages
brought on by different stimuli—have not produced conviction in
the scientific world outside. And their primary assumption, " Only
the morbid can be hypnotised," is perpetually coming into more and
more unpleasant conflict with notorious fact. It now needs to be
defended by the bold and simple argument that the Nancy subjects,
for instance, must be hysterical because, as Dr. Babinski says, "They
present in the hypnotic trance contractures, paralysis, anre'sthesia, all
the symptoms of hysteria. Now, suggestion alone would be unable to
provoke the appearance of these physical symptoms. Suggestion has
acted as a revealer of hysteria." 1
This argument hardly proves Dr. Babinski's case, since it assumes
the very point in dispute, i.e., that certain phenomena, known to
occur in hysteria, cannot be producible by other causes as well. But,
nevertheless, it suggests a question which the Nancy school have made,
as I have said, but little attempt to answer. How is it that this easy
"suggestion,"—which in itself, one would think, can have little more
1 Dr. Babinski, in Revue de VHypnotisme, July, 1891, p. 24.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 301
efficacy than the mere utterance of a charm—can often at once pro
duce effects which years of medical and surgical treatment would fail
to secure ? Nay, and not only therapeutic effects, of a kind which
ordinary medicine can at any rate aim at, but profound modifications
of nervous condition—-changes whose mechanism we are entirely un
able to understand ?
So long as we try to explain all the phenomena of hypnotism,
double consciousness, &c, as mere morbid disaggregations of the
empirical personality—repartitions among several selves of powers
habitually appertaining to one alone—so long, I think, shall we be
condemning ourselves to a failure which will become more evident
with each new batch of experiments, each fresh manifestation of the
profundity and strangeness of the subliminal forces at work. We
shall find ourselves, so to say, explaining the action of a group of
geysers on the assumption that they are springs fed by the ordinary
rainfall.
I will ask the reader, then, to bear in mind that in what follows I
am not attacking any recognised, caherent body of scientific doctrine.
Rather, I am making a first immature attempt to bring some kind of
order out of a chaotic collection of strange and apparently disparate
observations. My hypothesis—developed here from briefer indications
in earlier papers—cannot possibly, considering the novelty of the
inquiry, be true in all details. But it may be of use at least in
pointing out the nature and the complexity of the problems which any
valid hypothesis must recognise and solve.
I suggest, then, that the stream of consciousness in which we
habitually live is not the only consciousness which exists in connection
with our organism. Our habitual or empirical consciousness may
consist of a mere selection from a multitude of thoughts and
sensations, of which some at least are equally conscious with those that
we empirically know. I accord no primacy to my ordinary waking
self, except that among my potential selves this one has shown itself
the fittest to meet the needs of common life. I hold that it has
established no further claim, and that it is perfectly possible that other
thoughts, feelings, and memories, either isolated or in continuous
connection, may now be actively conscious, as we say, " within me,"—
in some kind of co-ordination with my organism, and forming some
part of my total individuality. I conceive it possible that at some
future time, and under changed conditions, I may recollect all ; I may
assume these various personalities under one single consciousness, in
which ultimate and complete consciousness the empirical conscious
ness which at this moment directs my hand may be only one element
out of many.
Before we draw out the implications of such a statement, let us
302 t\ W. H. Myers.
pause to consider the obvious reasons which a man may give for
considering his empirical consciousness as identical with his total self.
The first remark of the ordinary reader will probably be that if
there were in fact any other consciousness within him, he would
certainly be aware of it.
This, however, is simply to beg the question. We must reply that
the dicta of consciousness have already been shown to need correction
in so many ways which the ordinary observer could never have
anticipated,—the world of realities (so far as we can get at any
intelligible notion of it) is so utterly unlike what our empirical
consciousness suggests to us,—that we have no right to trust our con
sciousness, so to say, a step further than we can feel it ;—to hold that
anything whatever—even a separate consciousness in our own organism
—can be proved not to exist, by the mere fact that we (as we know
ourselves) are not aware of it.
But dropping this first untenable demurrer, a man may still give
two reasons, which look valid enough, for supposing that there can be
comparatively little psychical action going on within him of which he
cannot give an account. He may say, in the first place : " The deeds
which I have done in life—the movements which my body has made—
have been executed in obedience to the will of my conscious self. There
has been no room for the operation of any imaginary will in the back
ground." And, in the second place, he may add: " Besides this active
life there has, of course, been a passive life as well. Besides the sensa
tions and movements originating in my own frame, there have been
sensations and movements impressed upon me from without. But all
this, though I could not control it, I can nevertheless remember. I can
feel sure that nothing of importance has happened to me which I
cannot recall by voluntary act of recollection. Here again, therefore,
there is no room for the operation of an imaginary memory beneath
the threshold. In short, to put the matter in a nutshell, I receive my
letters at my front door, and I give my orders in my library. Why
should I suppose that my house is governed by an imaginary conspiracy
in the kitchen?"
Now I need not examine how far contentions like these would be
valid if we kept to the realm of pure philosophical speculation. For
we happen to be able to prove, by actual and easy experiment, that
they are entirely inconclusive.
In the first place, it is now well known that very often if a man
in the hypnotic trance be ordered to perform a certain act after
he has been awakened—to execute, as it is called, a post-hypnotic-
suggestion—he will execute that suggestion, in complete unconscious
ness of having received a command, and in the full belief that he is
acting from his own choice, and with complete freedom of will.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 303
I have already repeatedly dwelt elsewhere on the deep significance
of this easily verified fact. It is enough to show that a man's belief
that his acts have been willed by his ordinary conscious self is no proof
whatever that they have primarily been so willed. They may have
been primarily willed by some subjacent stratum of his being—as in
the case of the post-hypnotic suggestion—and may yet appear to his
supraliminal self as absolutely of its own choosing.
Again. The chain of memory of which our superficial self is
master, and which in common parlance is spoken of as extending over
the whole past life, is seen on closer inspection to be imperfect and
interrupted in a high degree. For all men it omits the periods of
infancy and of sleep ; for many men there are further gaps representing
delirium, hypnotic trance, and various disturbances of consciousness.
And here again hypnotic experiment has made all the world
familiar with a fact which, until recent times, could only have been
inferred from a few scattered instances. This fact is that not only
may these gaps in our superficial memory possess a chain of memory of
their own, but that such secondary chain of memory is actually in some
sense more continuous than the primary.
We all know that the hypnotised subject as a rule remembers
waking life, but that the awakened subject as a rule has wholly
forgotten the events of his hypnotic trance. The full significance of
this fact—which has hardly yet, I think, been realised in any quarter
—will appear more clearly as we proceed. For the present it is enough
to point out that this fact alone destroys any possible claim of our
primary memory to be our sole memory, and thus shows us that we
cannot rest upon our empirically conscious memory any more than upon
our empirically conscious will as indicating that the empirical self to
which these belong is in any way a complete expression of our being.
What, then, is the practical conclusion to be drawn as regards the
mode of conducting our present inquiry 1 It is simply this : that we
must regard this ordinary stream of waking consciousness—in which I
write these words and my readers read them—with just the same
impartial, objective scrutiny which we apply to the consciousness, say,
of a person in spontaneous somnambulism or in hypnotic trance.
If we wished to form a judgment as to his activity of psychical con
dition in such a trance, we should examine his sensory and motor
capacity, his intelligence, his memory ; and should note in what points
there was either diminution or increase of his known powers in waking
life. And this would be an easy task ; since we should be aiming only
at describing state B—the somnambulic state before us—in terms of
state A, the ordinary waking condition.
But this—although it is pretty nearly all that has been hitherto
attempted in this direction—stands to a complete experimental
304 F. W. H. Myers.
psychology in something the same relation that the digging a pit in
my garden stands to a knowledge of the earth's crust. I can easily
discover that after digging (say) through a stratum of gravel I come
to clay, and I can describe the clay as damper and less healthy than
the gravel. As a householder I may accept this stratum of gravel
above the clay as an ultimate and satisfactory fact. As a geologist I
am bound to ask what it all means. Why is the gravel on the top ?
Why is there clay below it ? What is there below the clay 1 Do the
strata always occur in the same order, or must the gravel at any rate
always be on the top ? I can no longer say, "My house is built on
gravel," as though that were all I need know. It is built upon an
unknown number of strata, of which, for an unknown reason, the
gravel is uppermost at this particular point.
Now I maintain that the prevalent French mode of treating these
subjacent psychological states—although they have proved in more than
one case capable of beneficially supplanting the superficial state—as
though they were, nevertheless, mere morbid variations or splittings-up
of the superficial state, resembles the reasoning of a man who should
say that the clay, or chalk, or granite which he found beneath the
gravel was a kind of degenerate gravel—an agglomeration of particular
elements in the gravel, but nothing really new.
I think that the time has come for a rather deeper investigation.
I think that we have now observed enough out-croppings of subjacent
strata to enable us at least to seek—I do not say as yet to find—some
sort of provisional Law of stratification which does not assume as a
primary truth that because gravel is the stratum on which we have
chosen to build our houses, gravel is therefore the normal type which
ought always to be uppermost, and of which all other minerals are a
degenerate modification.
Not so; phenomena of so far-reaching a significance as these demand
a wider purview than the mere pathologist's in those who would explain
them. They open questions as to man's psychical being which have
always been deemed to lie inter apices philosophies. We shall not get
at their true meaning if we discuss them only in the atmosphere of a
hospital-ward full of hystero-epileptics. There will be need, of course,
to verify any hypothesis as strictly as we can ; but we must not fall
back upon hypotheses manifestly too narrow because we despair of
being able as yet to submit wider conceptions to exact proof.
The hypothesis which I offer may be attacked, I fear, with some
apparent reason, from two opposite quarters—both as antiquated and
as revolutionary. Its central conception is ancient enough. The idea
of a soul which precedes and outlasts the body, and which retains
memories, or receives intimations, belonging to a world in which the
body does not dwell—this assuredly, whether as religion or as philo
The Subliminal Consciousness. 305
sophy, as revelation or as speculation, has been one of the dominant
tenets of the traditional Wisdom of the Past.
But on the other hand, that so-called wisdom has never either
appealed to, or been recognised by, the rival wisdom of modern
physiology. There is something unpleasing to many minds in the
mere attempt to deduce from these quasi-hysterical phenomena an
argument for man's higher destinies. To the savant such a juxta
position suggests charlatanism ; to the philosopher it savours of
degradation.
That task must, nevertheless, be attempted. Yet it will be well to
avoid the use of terms which, like the words soul and spirit, carry with
them associations which cannot fairly be imported into the argument.
Some word, however, we must have for that underlying psychical
unity which I postulate as existing beneath all our phenomenal
manifestations. Let the word individuality serve this purpose ; and
let us apply the word personality, as its etymology suggests, to some
thing more external and transitory—to each of those apparent char
acters, or chains of memory and desire, which may at any time mask
at once and manifest a psychical existence deeper and more perdurable
than their own.
For such is my hypothesis. I suggest that each of us is in reality
an abiding psychical entity far more extensive than he knows—an
individuality which can never express itself completely through any
corporeal manifestation. The Self manifests through the organism ;
but there is always some part of the Self unmanifested ; and always,
as it seems, some power of organic expression in abeyance or in reserve.
Neither can the player express all his thought upon the instrument, nor
is the instrument so arranged that all its keys can be sounded at once.
One melody after another may be played upon it ; nay,—as with the
messages of duplex or of multiplex telegraphy,—simultaneously or with
imperceptible intermissions, several melodies can be played together;
but there are still unexhausted reserves of instrumental capacity, as
well as unexpressed treasures of informing thought.
All this psychical action, I hold, is conscious ; all is included in an
actual or potential memory below the threshold of our habitual con
sciousness. For all which lies below that threshold subliminal seems
the fittest word. "Unconscious," or even "subconscious," would be
directly misleading ; and to speak (as is sometimes convenient) of the
secondary self may give the impression either that there cannot be more
selves than two, or that the supraliminal self, the self above the
threshold,—the empirical self, the self of common experience—is in
some way superior to other possible selves.1
1 I here use the word "self" as a brief descriptive term for any chain of memory
sufficiently continuous, and embracing sufficient particulars, to acquire what is
306 F. W. H. Myers.
I hold (to continue) that this subliminal consciousness and sub
liminal memory may embrace a far wider range both of physiological
and of psychical activity than is open to our supraliminal conscious
ness, to our supraliminal memory. The spectrum of consciousness, if
I may so call it, is in the subliminal self indefinitely extended at
both ends.
At the inferior, or physiological end, in the first place, it includes
much that is too archaic, too rudimentary, to be retained in the supra
liminal memory of an organism so advanced as man's. For the supra
liminal memory of any organism is inevitably limited by the need of
concentration upon recollections useful in the struggle for existence.
The recollection of processes now performed automatically, and need
ing no supervision, drops out from the supraliminal memory, but may be
in my view retained in the subliminal. To this point we shall again
recur. In the second place, and at the superior or psychical end, the
subliminal memory includes an unknown category of impressions
which the supraliminal consciousness is incapable of receiving in any
direct fashion, and which it must cognise, if at all, in the shape of
messages from the subliminal consciousness.
To this category I refer telepathic and clairvoyant impressions,
which I believe to be habitually received, not by aid of those sensory
adits or operations which the supraliminal self directly commands, but
by aid of adits and operations peculiar to the subliminal self, and fall
ing under some system of laws of which supraliminal experience, if
standing alone, could give us no information. And I believe that some
of those impressions which, though in no clear way connected with
sight, we include under clairvoyance, do in some sense transcend the
limitations, of time as well as of space, within which all supraliminal
consciousness necessarily falls.
Varying our metaphor, we may say that the range of sensation
covered by our supraliminal consciousness or memory resembles
the range of temperature covered by our ordinary thermometers. The
thermometer's range represents but a small segment of the temperatures
whose existence in the Cosmos is implied by the very nature and con
stitution of the planet on whose surface our short range of tempera
tures prevails. Even so our supraliminal consciousness, with its
short range of sensation and memory, is, I think, demonstrably
based upon, demonstrably implies, a consciousness of wider scope.
That wider consciousness, again, may conceivably extend from the
absolute zero, or point—wherever that may be—where no conscious
ness has yet begun, up to a point of expansion where it may transcend
popularly called a "character" of its own. There will thus be one distinct supra
liminal self at a time ; but more than one subliminal self may exist, or may be
capable of being called into existence.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 307
any analogy which we can employ. For just as we know of no superior
limit to heat, unless it be that point where, in consequence of the com
plete dissociation of matter, the energy which we call heat must change
its character in some unknown way, so also we know of no superior
limit to consciousness, unless it be that point where individual con
sciousness, individual memories, may be merged in some vaster and
unknown form of life.
There may thus be, in my view, an unknown amount of psychical
operation proceeding in our individuality, and in connection with our
organism, of which operation only a small fraction habitually rises
into the cognition of the empirical self. What shall so rise, and what
shall not so rise, may well have been originally determined by some
process of natural selection.
The matters of which we are superficially conscious have been
selected from among the matters of which we might have been con
scious, much as the matters to which we attend are selected from among
the matters to which we might attend. I must needs attend to the
voice of one who calls to me ; I may leave unattended to the buzzing
of a fly in the room after I am conscious of it. Even so, in a more
general way, my superficial self must needs be conscious of sounds
transmitted to me by air-waves, but may ignore messages which reach
me by the less practical method of telepathic impact from other minds.
In each case the object of the selective process may have been the
preservation of the race and of the individual. When another object is
proposed, the selective process may take another form. And in fact the
object of civilised men has now considerably altered its character. It
is knowledge, not mere self-preservation, at which we aim. We may,
therefore, hope that just as many matters rise into, say, the naturalist's
attention which the hunting savage has not perceived, so also many
matters may now be made to rise into our superficial consciousness
which our purely practical ancestors could in no wise reach.
It will be seen that I do not suppose that there is any definite
or impassable barrier between the various strata of the Self. They are
strata (so to say) not of immovable rock, but of imperfectly miscible
fluids of various densities, and subject to currents and ebullitions
which often bring to the surface a stream or a bubble from a stratum
far below.
But observe that so soon as this is understood—so soon as I admit
and assert that the existence and nature of subliminal capacities in
the self is to be inferred only from actual phenomena observed and
interpreted by that empirical self by whose aid science does her work
—so soon does my theory lose its air of mysticism, and ranges itself
among hypotheses which may be erroneous, but are not plainly un
scientific.
308 F. W. H. Myers.
It is my object to test that theory by all the facts at my command.
And perhaps it will tend to clearness if I begin by pointing out what
kind of phenomena we may logically expect to find, if the theory be
true, and if I then go on to show to what extent I can claim that the
phenomena actually observed correspond to my anticipation.
And first, perhaps, it may be well to deal with the question of
morbidity, of abnormality, which is so prominent in many men's minds
in connection with any messages from the subliminal consciousness.
Now assuredly I do not hold that the subliminal self is free from
,disturbance and disease, any more than the supraliminal. " The
Subliminal Self " is a name for an aggregate of potential personalities,
with imperfectly known capacities of perception and action, but none
of them identical with the assumed individuality beneath them, nor
entitled to share in any kind of "imperturbability, indiscerptibility,
incorruptibility," which the philosopher may ascribe to an incorporeal
soul. There must needs, therefore, in my view, be subliminal disturb
ances, and these must needs make themselves felt in the supraliminal
being. How shall we distinguish these subterranean from the superficial
storms? How shall we recognise, for instance, a disturbance of the
" hypnotic stratum "—as we may style for convenience' sake that group
of potential perceptions and reactions which are readily evoked in a
suitable subject by the hypnotic trance? It would be absurd to attempt
to explain ignotum per ignotius,—the Eetiology of disease by its relation
to hypothetical strata of the subliminal self. But one remark I must
make, since, crude as it may be, it offers at least a chance of light
upon a subject at present hopelessly confused.
I say, then, that our most plausible conception of a morbid disturb
ance of the hypnotic self would consist in a derangement of functions
or capacities habitually observed in the hypnotic state, and in that
state alone. I should say that the reason for referring the source of
such derangement to the hypnotic"1 self would be increased if the sub
ject were, when hypnotised, aware of the exciting external cause of
such derangements, and capable of modifying them in a way impossible
to him in waking life.
Now it is a striking characteristic of the hypnotic self that it can
exercise over the nervous, the vaso-motor, the circulatory systems a
degree of control unparalleled in waking life. Told to hold out his arm,
the hypnotised subject will hold it out for an indefinite time in a state
of painless contracture, and with no disturbance of pulse or respira
tion. Told that the ammonia which is held to his nose is otto of roses,
he will inhale it with unwinking, unwatering eyes. Told that he has
burnt himself in a given spot, his skin will redden or even form a""'-,
blister. Told to sleep, he will sleep profoundly until told to awake.
I do not here attempt to explain why that obedience is rendered. But
The Subliminal Consciousness. 309
the power of obeying such commands—that is the function, the pre
rogative, the secret of the hypnotic self.
Are we aware in practice of any malady or group of maladies in
which these functions, these capacities, are the subject of special dis
turbance 1 Are there cases of prolonged and apparently causeless
contracture 1 Are there anaesthesias appearing, shifting, and disappear
ing as rapidly as the suggested anaesthesia of hypnotism 1 Are there
anomalous vaso-motor disturbances, which seem to follow the patient's
mere caprice 1
The reader will answer with the word hysteria. And, meaningless
or misleading though that term be, it is in fact our first and obvious
reply. Not indeed all, but almost all the phenomena which can be
induced by suggestion in the hypnotic state occur spontaneously in
hysterical patients.
But this will not complete our answer. From the point of view of our
present analogy the differentia of hysteria will be simply an irrational
self-suggestion in regions beyond the power of the waking will ;—a
morbid or uncontrolled functioning of powers over the organism which
effect profounder modifications than the empirical self can parallel.
Thus the production of patches of anaesthesia or analgesia is a-
characteristically hysterical symptom, and it implies a power of modify
ing the sensibility to touch or pain which we cannot imitate under
ordinary conditions.
But when hysteria is thus regarded, it is seen that several other
maladies fall under the same category. " Attaques de sommeil,"
"association-neuroses," " Zwangs-Vorstellungen," and a host of mono
manias show a similarly morbid functioning of precisely that class of
powers which hypnotism exhibits to us in harmless or beneficent opera
tion. They are self-suggestions of an irrational and hurtful kind. They
are diseases of the hypnotic stratum. Hypnotism is not a morbid state ;
it is the manifestation of a group of perfectly normal but habitually
subjacent powers, whose beneficent operation we see in cures by
therapeutic suggestions ; whose neutral operation we see in ordinary
hypnotic experiment ; and whose diseased operation we see in the
vast variety of self-suggestive maladies.1
I would offer this view to the consideration of those who justly
realise the close connection between hypnotism and hysterical pheno
mena, but mistakenly endeavour to force all the hypnotic phenomena
into the hysterical category.
1 The self-suggestive psychoses pass into insanities dependent on organic lesion
by gradations on which physicians themselves are hardly agreed, and which lie quite
outside my province. I do not, of course, mean to assert that delusions unmodifiable
by suggestion, and depending on actual lesions (as the megalomania of general
paralysis), belong to the hypnotic more than to any other stratum of personality.
310 F. W. H. Myers.
M. Babinski, for instance, as we have seen, argues as follows on
behalf of the Salpetriere view that all hypnotic subjects are hysterical.
The Nancy subjects, he says, although asserted by Nancy doctors to be
non-hysterical, yet show in the hypnotic trance phenomena which we
observe elsewhere in hysteria alone. For that reason they must in fact
be hysterical. This, surely, is to reason in a somewhat obvious circle.
And those who, with the great majority of competent judges, are con
vinced that non-hysterical persons may most assuredly be nevertheless
hypnotisable, must seek some other explanation for the similarity of
phenomena in the two states. That explanation I have here attempted
to give by suggesting that hysteria (and many cognate troubles) should
rather be said to fall under hypnotism than hypnotism under hysteria.
Those self-suggestive troubles exhibit the disordered working of a
stratum of the self which is per se as normal and as essential to man's
completeness as any other, and which surpasses the superficial stratum
in the degree of power which the will informing it can exercise over
the organism.
Yet one word more to those who, without stigmatising either
hypnotism or subliminal manifestations in general . as necessarily
morbid, are yet disposed to style them abnormal, and to regard them
as a mere curiosity which can never be closely inwrought with human
progress.
" The normal man " is apt, I think, to become as question-begging
an individual in physiological as " the natural man " in theological
treatises. What is man's nature 1 and what is man's norm 1 If wo
were answering for any lower species we should undoubtedly say that
the norm of that species was such adaptation to its environment as
best secured its existence and its diffusion over our planet. Answering
for mankind, we should demur to this crudely propagandist view. We
should hesitate to assume that Brigham Young had fulfilled man's end
and aim more successfully than Sir Isaac Newton. Man's end and aim
are not so simple as a rabbit's; he must choose between ideals; he must
pursue the higher objects even at some sacrifice of the lower. And
whether we contemplate his highest aim under the aspect of Virtue or
of Knowledge, we must agree that such aim can only be attained by a
rise into fullest consciousness—by a completest control and exercise of
" those high capacious powers which lie folded up in man."
Hitherto, indeed, almost all experimentation on human subjects
has been directed to practical, to therapeutic ends ; to the remedy of
the wear and tear which interfere with the every-day working of the
organism. Approached even on this merely practical side, that organ
ism has shown itself at once far more complex and far more modifiable
than the early physicians supposed. But we have found, too, that for
such modification we need quite unlooked-for artifices—appliances
The Subliminal Consciousness. 311
which it has taken centuries to perfect, and of which Hippocrates and
Galen did not dream.
Thus much for one side of man's nature. How as to the other 1
Psychological experiment is still, as it seems to me, at much the
same point as was medical experiment in the days of Hippocrates.
We are still in the stage of mere logical and descriptive analysis of
the psychical nature with which we have to deal. We have scarcely
yet invented any instruments for probing or artifices for modifying it.
Nay, the very idea of trying to modify our psychical selves by
deliberate scientific experiment is as foreign and unacceptable to most
men as the idea of modifying his death-rate by sanitation is to the
African savage. There is in most of our minds a vague assumption
that our race stands at its highest point, and that any change must
imply degeneration.
No one, of course, can offer scientific defence of such an assump
tion as this. Yet how great would the difference be if it were altogether
ousted from every mind ! If it were admitted that we are borne—
however slowly—on an ascending curve, and that we can assign no
necessary limit to the powers over our own personal mind and matter,
and over mind and matter without us, which we may be able to exert
when we have gained fuller consciousness of all that lies hid within !
The foregoing remarks, I trust, may have cleared the way for an
inquiry on which we ought to enter unfettered by any prejudice against
the unknown within us simply as unknown. We have now briefly to
consider what kind of phenomena should be observable if our theory
is a true one ; in what fashion we can suppose that a subliminal realm
,of psychical action such as I have assumed will be likely to make
itself perceptible to the superficial consciousness. Such tentative
-answer as we can give to this question may at least help to show us
for what phenomena we are bound to be on the watch.
If, then, there be in each of us an undefined pre-existing potency
of sensation, thought, and will, which can at best manifest itself but
irregularly and imperfectly through the bodily organism, we shall
expect that each mode of perception of which the superficial self is
capable will be from time to time made use of by the underlying
intelligence. There will be a transmission of messages (so to name any
kind of manifestation, be its purport true or false) from the lower
to the upper strata, in all modes of which the upper strata are
accustomed to take cognisance. And since we must not assume that
the subliminal self is necessarily confined to the special modes of
sensory communication which the supraliminal self enjoys, we may
anticipate that in these upward-passing messages there will be indica-
cations of some such wider or less differentiated perceptivity as we
may suppose to be operative in the depths of our being.
312 F. W. H. Myers.
Next as to the contents of these messages. In the first place, we
shall have absolutely no reason to anticipate that all the messages will
be wise or important. Although I call them messages, for the sake of
a general term, and because they all convey some sort of knowledge of
what is passing beneath the threshold, yet we must not assume that
they are necessarily purposive or voluntary. They may, as in dreams,
be the expression of some purposeless and involuntary subliminal
activity ; or, as in hysteria, of some subliminal activity of a distinctly
morbid kind. Or, without actual disease, they may communicate sheer
error, sheer folly, sheer wickedness. It is not likely that any stratum
of our being, even though it have some directer access to wisdom, is
itself entirely wise.
Nevertheless, my initial hypothesis will assuredly not be justified
unless we can discover a certain proportion of subliminal messages
which do actually communicate truths of which the superficial self was
not otherwise aware, or effect ends which the superficial self could not
otherwise effect. And such messages—veridical in content, or bene
ficently self-suggestive in operation—ought, in my view, to be seen
flashing out along the whole spectrum of superficial consciousness, and
also (as already implied) beyond either end of that habitual spectrum.
Beyond the inferior or physiological end of that spectrum, we ought
to find traces of a beneficent power over physiological processes which
are not within the control of the supraliminal will. Coincidently
with that spectrum we ought to find traces of a completer than the
supraliminal memory, of a keener than the supraliminal sense-perfec
tion, of a sounder than the supraliminal judgment. And beyond the
superior or psychical end of our metaphorical spectrum we ought to
find traces of a knowledge subliminally acquired by methods unknown
to the supraliminal self, and from sources to which that self has no
access. How far such supernormal powers may extend we cannot, of
course, predict. But we shall anticipate that whatever supernormal
powers are discovered will be discovered in the subliminal and not in
the supraliminal realm ;—will reach the superficial self in the form of
messages whose source and whose mode of composition will be discerned,
not directly, but inferentially ;—will be subject, not to the laws of the
known molecular world, but to laws of that unknown world in which
the specific powers of the subliminal self are assumed to operate.
Such, roughly speaking, will be our anticipation as to the modes, and
as to the content, of subliminal manifestations. We shall have some
what similar grounds for preliminary conjecture on other points, and
notably as to the probable relation of subliminal messages to the supra
liminal memory.
But this point we will for the present defer. Our subject is so com
plicated that we shall gain rather than lose by an arrangement which
The Subliminal Consciousness. 313
bids us at times to retrace our steps, and to grow familiar with our
labyrinthine way.
Let us, therefore, turn now to the actual messages, and let us
arrange them in the first place according to their different modes of
manifestation, the channels through which they reach the superficial
self. We shall find that the observed cases fall broadly into four
categories :—
1. First come messages neither definitely sensory nor definitely
motor, but consisting of vague or anomalous impressions or impulses.
2. Secondly, we have messages mainly sensory, or passive automa
tism.
3. Thirdly, we have messages mainly motor, or active automatism.
4. Lastly, we have messages at once motor and sensory, which tend
to occupy the whole psychical field, and to pass on into states of trance,
or of alternating personality.
1. The first of these classes—theoretically, perhaps, the most
interesting of all—must be very briefly touched upon here. The
time has not come for its full discussion—can hardly come until we
have a greater mass of skilled and careful records of subjective feeling.
Nothing is harder to describe than these vague impressions which
seem to lie beneath the foundations of ordinary sensation and ordinary
motion alike. The student of our published narratives will note in
how many different ways this difficulty is felt and met—how inadequate
are our " matter-moulded forms of speech " to express some unique
experience which is often even more impressive to the percipient from
its own strangeness than from the message which it carries.
One point, however, needs clear recognition. These subliminal
messages seem very often capable of being developed with equal ease
into impressions of sight or into impressions of hearing, or into motor
impulses. Let us take the case which is so often the simplest—that
of a post-hypnotic suggestion. If a vague suggestion, say of danger,
is conveyed to several hypnotised patients, to be developed after
their awakening, each will realise the hallucinatory danger in a
different way ; voice of enemies—smell of fire—sight of a wild beast
advancing ; it is a chance which sense is used to express the dominant
idea. The idea suggested will rise into manifestation by whatever
channel the " psychostatical " condition of the subject may render
easiest at the moment.
Somewhat similar is the case with many veridical hallucinations.
They begin with a vague feeling which is neither sight, sound, nor
motion ; then they develop gradually into a phantom, a voice, an
impulse to writing or to utterance. If the same person has several
successive experiences, these will often tend to clothe themselves in the
same sensory shape.
Y
314 F. W. H. Myers.
The importance of this fact is seen when a claim is put forward
that an apparition, if veridical, is necessarily also objective—has some
independent reality outside the percipient's brain. Not so, we reply ; in
many cases that manifestation has developed so gradually, so unmis
takably from within, that we cannot logically deem that an objective
figure was suddenly intruded into a series of impressions so plainly
subjective in its first inception. As well say that while the hypnotised
boy was straining his ears to catch the angel's music there suddenly
came to him the real note of a heavenly harp.
I am not maintaining that all veridical hallucinations are of this
primarily subjective type. I have elsewhere argued, indeed, that the
terms objective and subjective lose in some of these cases all clear
meaning, and that in the case of a collective hallucination, for example,
we can often do no more than record the experience of each person
concerned, being absolutely unable to say on what laws the collectivity
of the hallucinatory experience could possibly depend. But, never
theless, it is the obscure internal origin, rather than the sudden flash
ing out, as though upon an external organ of sense, which is the most
instructive characteristic of these subliminal messages. The flash, no
doubt, may often be all that we can observe ; but the question is what
has heated to flashing-point the inflammable parts within.
2. We thus pass onwards, without sudden transition, from obscure
indefinite messages to definite sensory messages,—full-blown hallucina
tions. And here we cannot say what determines the development or
leads to the increase of definition in the message received. It is not
necessarily, I think, a great intensity of the message ; for the vague
messages may be prolonged and disturbing ; the visual or auditory
hallucinations may be unexciting and transient. But be they of what
quality they may, it is important to realise that all hallucinations of
the senses may be in some sort messages from the subliminal self.
They may be so when merely fantastic just as truly as when they are
veridical.
Dreams form at once the weakest and the commonest form of
sensory hallucination. And dreams, of course, already give manifest
signs of having been manufactured below the threshold of our ordinary
consciousness. Sometimes, as I have pointed out elsewhere (Con-
temporary Revieiv, February, 1885), a single dream seems to involve
more than one level of subliminal consciousness. And already in
dreams—even in meaningless and fantastic dreams—we begin to come
across signs of intensified power. The occasional prolongation of
dream-figures into the first waking moments seems to indicate that an
intensity of visualising power has been exercised in the dream which
the waking subject could not imitate. And these hypnopompie
illusions, if I may so term them—illusions which attend the departure
The Subliminal Consciousness. 315
of s eep—are paralleled by the hypnagogic illusions which attend the
on-coming of sleep, and which have been described by Maury and other
authors.
It is well known that at or near the moment of falling asleep,
scenes or faces will sometimes present themselves with a startling vivid
ness which no voluntary effort can rival. Very likely other bad
visualisers, besides myself, have derived from these occasional flashes
some notion of the good' visualiser's habitual capacity, which otherwise,
as being beyond imagination, might have remained for lis beyond belief.
The lesson, then, of these illusions hypnagogiques is that even in the
shallowest and most meaningless messages from the subliminal self there
may be indications of previously unknown capacity. Nay, this is the case
even when the subliminal messages are directly originated by disease.
In delirium tremens the type of the hallucinatory figures is determined
by the nature of the disease, and by previous associations. But the
vividness with which that type is realised is in itself an indication of
intensified capacity. The patient, when in ordinary health, could
not summon up pictures of rats or snakes with anything like that
vividness and reality which so terrify him now. With other deliriums,
also, the case is similar. The vivid illusions of the opium-eater and
of the haschisch-eater are notorious.
Now in most of these cases it is the morbid element which has
usually attracted attention. The vivid visions have been looked upon
as symptoms of poisoning, to be removed as soon as possible. But to
the psychologist these visions have an interest of a much deeper kind.
Just as it is the business of the physician to look out for degenerations
—to avert dissolution—so it should be (though it has not often been)
the business of the psychologist to look out for extensions of capacity
—to recognise evolution. And these morbid visions take on a new
importance if they are regarded as indications of a power of visualisa
tion, of combination, of invention, existing in subliminal strata of our
being, and accidentally revealed by the volcanic upheaval of fever.
We may extend this argument to cases where there is no fever, but
the indication of disordered function lies in the hallucination itself.
The most rudimentary, in one sense, of all forms of visual halluci
nation is the recurrence of an after-image. The microscopist has been
gazing long and steadfastly at some tiny network of cells. Laying
aside the microscope, he feels nothing unusual. But perhaps some
hours afterwards the network will start up before him in an objectified
form, so clearly that he may again study forgotten details. Now this is
the result of unduly prolonged attention , it is a morbid stereotyping of
impressions which should pass swiftly away. But although it is thus on
the whole a retrogressive or dissolutive phenomenon, it has a progressive
or evolutive aspect as well. It indicates, that is to say, the possession
y 2
316 F. W. H. Myers.
of an intensity of faculty previously unknown. No one could have
asserted that so exact an image of the microscopic object was still
preserved in the observer's brain ; nor could he himself have evoked
such an image by conscious effort.
Somewhat similarly we find that sudden vivid revivals of memory
or faculty in dying persons are explained by physiologists as indicating
that when any nervous centre is discharged with disintegrating violence
a number of stored-up memories are thus set free, which would never
have been evoked by the gentle discharges of healthy life.
In all these cases, as will be seen, my argument in no way prompts
me to minimise the morbid characters. On the contrary, I hold that
since we possess certain subliminal faculties, which at present we can
only get at by a variety of empirical methods, it was antecedently
probable that disease would be one of these methods. It is likely, of
course, to be a wasteful and incomplete method; bearing something the
same relation to experiment that a volcanic eruption bears to the
digging of a mine. Yet it may bring to us a certain amount of con
fused knowledge as to subjacent strata—a knowledge which it is our
business to make definite by properly directed excavation.
But here an objection will be raised to my argument,—so serious
that, at the cost of some delay, I must endeavour to forestall it.
" You have no right," my critic will say, " to extract evidence of some
new subliminal capacity from phenomena which, like the hallucinations
of delirium tremens, are obviously the mere concomitants of nervous
dissolution. In such cases we have the uncontrolled irregular working
of such of the higher nervous centres as have so far escaped paralysis
from the alcoholic poisoning.1 You must not treat defect of inhibition
,as if it were a positive power. In all our sense-organs there is a
certain margin of capacity beyond what we habitually use. This
margin renders possible many helpful adaptations to new difficulties ;
but also it inevitably admits of wasteful outpourings when control is
removed. Take a case of purely mechanical trouble. Say that too
much wax accumulates in my ears. My reserve of auditory capacity is
now called upon, and I hear fairly well in spite of the obstruction.
The surplus wax, however, is removed;—and straightway I hear my
friend's voice as a shout, and his cab like rolling thunder. Do you call
this an uprush of subliminal capacity ? The fact simply is that my
,ears, which had adjusted themselves to special difficulties, take some
little time in readjusting themselves to ordinary circumstances. It is
as simple a matter as my feeling your study hot when I come in out of
the cold air."
This is all true, I reply ; but my first object is precisely to discover
1 Sea Dr. Huglilings Jackson in Journal of Mental Science, April, 18S7.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 317
what margins of capacity our known sensory centres possess ;—in the
hope of discovering whether we have other capacities not dependent
upon the senses that we know. And we must not class all these mani
festations of latent capacity together ;—they are of many kinds, and
teach many different lessons.
The case of intensified hearing, for instance, tells me comparatively
little. I believe already that some of my ancestors could hear more
acutely than I ; and my reserve power in this direction could indicate
at most that degrees of capacity once acquired do not always die out
with disuse (like sight in cave-fishes), but may remain latent, and
ready for some descendant's special need.
But, on the other hand, I see no reason to suppose that my
ancestors could visualise—could call up imaginary images—any better
than I can. If then by drinking brandy I succeed in visualising a
hallucinatory rat, I have come upon a degree of faculty which I had
no previous reason to suspect myself of possessing. That faculty, let
us say, has arisen incidentally during the development of my visual
centres. It has been a useless bye-product of human evolution.
But note that the more useless, irrelevant, episodic, incidental such
a bye-product is, the more significant is it for our present purpose.
Bye-products such as these do not follow on the incoherent action of
such organisms as man can himself construct. A loom is a man-made
organism ; it is a product of artificial selection, of modifications imposed
from without, with no spontaneous variations arising within. Throw
it partly out of gear and it will perhaps work violently; but there will
be no method in its madness ; its incoherence will be absolute ; it will
not incidentally turn out patterns more complex than any which it has
previously made. You will find out nothing about it which you did not
know before ; for there is nothing in it which you did not put there
yourself. But, on the other hand, when you disarrange the human
organism by alcohol you get something more than incoherence ; not
only tossing movements and vague cries, but also the projection of
phantasmal figures, more vivid than the patient's healthy imagination
ever produced.
And note that this very power of externalising visual images has in
certain cases (a well-known story of a portrait-painter is copied from
book to book) been of actual artistic value to its possessor. It is a
bye-product of the same general type as musical and mathematical
genius;—those "gifts" whose brilliance and strangeness have prompted
Mr. Wallace's suggestion that they may have been introduced into the
human mind, or fostered there, by some agency like that of a breeder
or gardener, outside of the normal course of evolution. I do not
claim that the drunkard's "blue devils" have any supernatural source.
But I would suggest that if ever we are to learn whence those "sports "
318 F. W. H. Myers.
on which natural selection so largely depends have originated, and what
their possible range may be, we can only find this out by analysing
whatsoever within us lies off the main track of self-preserving and
race-preserving adaptation. Explain to me, I would ask, not how
Mithridates came to have a family at eighty, but how Gauss came to
discover the method of least squares at eighteen.
Man's life on earth starts from an x of some sort ; and for my
present argument it matters not whether you call x a carbon-atom or
an immortal soul. Whatever it was, x had certain potentialities,
which must have dated in any case from some age anterior to its
existence upon our recent planet. Theories of evolution have taught
us something of the ways in which x may have been modified during
its terrene existence; but we have yet to learn what that was on which
earth's forces began their play. Are there indeed any residual pheno
mena, bye-products of evolution, useless vestiges, enigmatic rudiments,
which if once we could interpret them could carry us back beyond
protozoic life to some more ancient history, some more perdurable
law?
It will be seen as I go further that there are certain facts which
can, I think, throw light on this problem ;—which strongly countenance
the hypothesis of a pre-existing, an informing, a surviving soul. In
the meantime the necessary logical arrangement of my matter places
my argument at a disadvantage. For I have to begin with small and
scattered observations, themselves explicable on hypotheses narrower
than mine, and needing,—to show their true connections, their con
tinuous trend towards the stranger, the supernormal phenomena,—a
wide ingathering and long cumulation which neither my space nor my
knowledge enables me here to offer.
But I must content myself with thus appealing to my reader to
study the whole series of my facts before he dismisses my interpreta
tion. For the present I must return to my immediate topic, and
must continue to trace in order the various classes of visual hallucina
tions—from the morbid or fantastic up to the veridical, and even to
the collective class.
Next above the visual hallucinations of disease I should place those
which many persons can summon up by the empirical process of gazing
at a crystal, dark mirror, or other clear surface. These " crystal-
visions" appear to run parallel to the whole range of visual hallucina
tions. Some of them closely resemble dreams ; appearing to be mere
casual modifications of past experience. Others, again, exhibit a super
normal revivification of past events—a hypermnesic character—on which
we shall hereafter have to dwell. In other cases the vision seems to
have a telepathic origin. In others, again, the crystal shows a message
purporting to have come from a deceased person. In others, again, it
The Subliminal Consciousness. 319
shows scenes apparently depicting the remote past, or the future, and
not clearly traceable to any individual intelligence. Nor can we at
present discriminate by any difference in the characteristics of the
vision itself what its origin or its meaning may be.
I need hardly say that in using the convenient term " crystal-
visions " I am not attributing any real importance to the crystal or
other speculum used, nor even assuming that it is always needful to use
a speculum at all. The important point is that by use of empirical
means, which vary with different persons, a good many observers can
succeed in inducing visual hallucinations in a harmless and convenient
form. The crystal-visions seem akin to the faces and other forms seen
in the dark by many persons while fully awake.1 It is natural at first
to suppose that the crystal-seers are slightly self-hypnotised by the
steady gaze ; and in some instances this is probably the fact. But in
some of the best marked cases of crystal-vision which I have seen
there is no indication whatever of modification of the normal waking
state.2 Crystal-vision in my view is not a branch of hypnotism,
but rather an additional method—due, like hypnotism, to accidental
discovery—of bringing into the cognisance of the supraliminal self
some part of the processes which are ceaselessly going on below.
Further experiments on crystal-vision are much needed. But the
cases already published will serve to show that these visions may rise
from very different depths in the psychical being—may come only " from
dreamful wastes where footless fancies dwell,'' or may be fashioned by
somewhat within us which is cognisant of forgotten memories, and of far-
distant things. In one point nearly all observers concur. These visions
imply a visualising power greater than the seer can exercise by volun
tary effort. The distinctness and artistic quality of these crystal-
pictures can be estimated more truly than that of hypnotic, or even
of post-hypnotic hallucinations, on account of the subject's more
thoroughly normal state. And the illumination of the pictures, the
movement of the figures, often causes the seer great surprise. The
effect is said to be not like that of " conjuring up a scene," but rather
of looking tranquilly into a camera obscura, where light and movement
are given correctly, and with no effort of one's own.
The study both of hypnotically-suggested hallucinations and of
crystal-visions forms an important prerequisite for the right compre
hension of that remarkable class which remains to be mentioned,—the
,casual or isolated—falsidical or veridical—hallucinations of the sane.
Readers of Phantasms of the Living will remember how Mr. Gurney
has brought out the strong analogies which subsist between all phan-
1 See Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., p. 473.
2 See the paper, " Recent Experiments in Crystal-Vision," Proceedings, Vol; V.,
p. 48(5.
320 F. W. H. Myers.
tasmal experiences of this kind—between those which we must assume
to be merely subjective, and those which we regard as having a tele
pathic origin, a veridical content. He has shown how beneath all
differences both of aspect and of content they are wont to give indica
tion of somewhat the same process of subliminal manufacture.
Before, however, we can decide to class all visual phantasms as
messages from the subliminal self, we must take into account the
important fact that these phantasms are in many cases collective—that
they are observed by several persons simultaneously—perhaps even by
animals as well. Are we not bound, it has been asked, to regard such
collective phantasms at any rate as objective entities, in no way
dependent upon the self of the percipient 1
In reply I would say (as I have said at greater length elsewhere),
that I see no objection to describing these collective hallucinations as
objective, so long as it is understood that their objectivity implies only
that they have a source outside the percipients' minds, and does
not imply that they are necessarily discerned by the percipients in
accordance with ordinary optical laws.
Our records of collective phantasms show at any rate that even
when more persons than one perceive the phantasm it is not safe to
conclude that all the persons present will perceive it. Nay, more; those
who do perceive it will sometimes perceive it to different extents—one,
for example, hearing only ; another both hearing and seeing. It is even
doubtful whether the perceptions of the different percipients are in all
cases fully consistent with each other, or do not rather indicate that
some initiating cause acts on each percipient in a manner determined
by his own psychostatical condition. Collectivity, in short, is in such
percipience more truly styled electivity. It may be the case that A and
B, who are together, both see the same phantom ; but this fact gives us
no guarantee that if C was there with them he would see the same
thing.
It is clear, then, that a phantom thus electively perceived—perceived,
that is to say, by one person in preference to another, equally well
situated—cannot be perceived by the superficial self, according to
ordinary optical laws. Yet certainly in some instances the phantasmal
image, say, of a dying man, does affect in much the same way more
percipients than one,—and percipients of whom some may be strangers
to the presumed agent, and so not likely to have received the impres
sion from him by direct telepathic impact. To meet this difficulty it
has been suggested that when A is dying, and A's phantom is perceived
by B and C, of whom C is a stranger to A, then B perceives it by
direct telepathic impact from A, and C by further or secondary tele
pathic impact from B. Where the difficulty is so great, and our know
ledge so small, we must not hastily reject any attempt at explanation.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 321
But, personally, I am led to think that there is, as I have elsewhere sug
gested, some " centre of phantasmogenetic activity," bearing some
relation to space, and affecting B and C simultaneously and directly.
The phrase here cited, in spite of its unavoidable vagueness,
may now be seen to possess an intelligible meaning. I have
already urged that the impulse which ultimately generates the
phantom is in no case directly received by the superficial self, but
always by the subliminal faculties, in some unknown fashion. I have
suggested that this impulse is not in itself of any definite sensory or
motor quality, but is generally capable of being translated to the super
ficial self in either sensory or motor terms, according to the subject's
psychostatical condition,—perhaps according to the predominance of
visile, audile, or motile imagery in his habitual psychical operations.
To explain these collective or elective cases, with their similarities in
the general image but differences in detail, we should have, on this view,,
further to suppose that the said impulse is sometimes of a kind which
affects the subliminal self of all suitably constituted persons within a
certain area, and which, although modified in each observer's case by
individual conditions, has yet a prepotent tendency to translate itself
into one special form of imagery—so that the phantom which each
observer perceives is similar, although not identical.
Difficult as such a hypothesis may be, it indicates, I think, a more
likely road towards the solution of this crowning puzzle of collective
hallucinations than is afforded by those who maintain that a phan
tasm seen or heard by more than one person must be a real part of
the objective world ; so that failure to see or hear it would arise
from some mere defect of eyes or ears—some such purely physio
logical limitation as prevents some men from hearing the shrill cry
of the bat.
What has here been said of hallucinations of sight will apply,.
mutatis mutandis, to hallucinations of the sense of hearing, and of
the sense of touch—to the phantasmal sound of human voices, or
pressure of human hands. " The sense of touch," however, is, of
course, a mere popular term which covers a variety of classes of
sensation as yet imperfectly known. At any rate the sense of contact,,
the sense of temperature, and (of course) the sense of pain are known
to admit of being isolated as separate modes of perceptivity. What
messages, we may ask, does the subliminal self send upwards in con
nection with these senses 1
As regards the sense of temperature the answer is complex and
obscure, involving what seems to be a new group of sensibilities to>
magnets, metals, &c. An elaborate system of these supposed sensi
bilities was drawn up long ago by Reichenbach in his book, Ber sensi
tive Mensch, and similar systems have since been elaborated by Barety
-322 F. W. H. Myers.
<le Rochas, and others. In the absence of further corroboration all
these schemes must be considered as at least premature. Neverthe
less, there is in France a growing belief that certain metals, even wrapped
up or concealed, so as to avoid suggestion or hyperesthesia of ordinary
touch, do produce definite and unexplained sensations, among which are
sensations of temperature, apparently not depending on the smoothness,
weight, or other known property of the metals used. Thus a burning
sensation from gold seems one of the commonest of these phenomena.
The sensations alleged to be felt from magnets fall under a kindred
category. Professor Pitres in a recent work asserts that these results
have now been obtained with an electro-magnet, the percipient not
knowing whether the current was turned on or off ;—a precaution on
which we have repeatedly insisted in these Proceedings.1 It is to be
hoped that observers in other countries may soon be fortunate enough
to find subjects equally sensitive.
While we must accept the accounts of these experiments with due
reserve as to possible effects of suggestion and self-suggestion, it does
yet, I think, become yearly more probable that this influence of metals
(ill-named by Pitres and others hap/talgesia, since it is by no means
always painful) and this kindred influence of magnets do actually exist.
And if such influence exists, it would appear to exist for the most part
subhminally; for it becomes perceptible by the superficial consciousness
only or mainly in conjunction with other phenomena which have a
manifestly subliminal initiation.
It" seems, then, quite possible that we may here have a real approach
to certain obscure physical laws by means of the help afforded by
indications arising from a stratum within us in which the range of per
ception is, as I have already suggested, enlarged in divers unpredict
able ways.
And next as to sensibility to pain. In what relation does the sub
liminal self stand to this prominent characteristic of our superficial
being 1—a characteristic originally acquired, we may suppose, for pro
tective purposes, but now in many of its forms useless, and, when useless,
noxious, and even dangerous to life. We know, of course, that sensi
bility to pain is one of the functions most easily modified by hypnotic
or post-hypnotic suggestion. Painless operations "in the sleep" formed
the most impressive theme of the early mesmerists. Operations per
formed in the waking state, but rendered painless by previous sugges
tion during trance, are now equally familiar. The painless accouche-
inents of which the hypnotic journals now report a pretty constant series
furnish some striking examples of the removal of pain while other
sensibilities and energies persist undisturbed. Self-suggestion, too,
He does not, however, explicitly state that all danger of suggestion from the
slight click which accompanies magnetisation was avoided.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 323
will with many persons relieve pain in a marked degree, as in the
so-called "Faith-Cure." Analgesia, moreover, seems generally to be
present in spontaneous ecstacy. And it is found in combination with
hallucinations ;—as when a sudden removal of pain follows upon a sense
of phantasmal touch on the part affected.
Thus far we have been speaking of analgesia, as opposed to
anaesthesia ; of the removal of the sensibility to pain but not of the
sensibility to contact. I need not say that anaesthesia also is common
in trance and in hysteria.
A curious point here arises. We may lay it down as pretty
certain that in all cases of hysterical anaesthesia the feeling of the
anaesthetic limbs is not absolutely lost, but subsists as part of a sub
jacent chain of memory. Professor Janet's book, L'Automatisme
1'sychologique, contains abundant illustration of this fact, which is
quite in accordance with what we should expect. But is the pain
which is evaded by the superficial self felt by the subliminal 1
The answer to this question is not equally clear. On the one hand,
in some trifling experimental instances, the pricks, &c, inflicted
on the anaesthetic hand have been observed and complained of by
a subjacent consciousness. Whether they are really felt, however, is
very doubtful. For in the more serious cases—amputations, accouche-
merits, <fcc., there is often no sign whatever in the countenance of
pain. Occasionally, indeed, there are such signs ; but this seems to
be an indication that the trance is not deep. Very rarely indeed
has any memory of serious pain been afterwards shown by any
subjacent personality. In fact, it seems plain from the behaviour
of the organism that the disturbance caused by pain has been
veritably and profoundly absent. Delboeuf's well-known experiment
with the two burns goes to prove the same thing. Making two
symmetrical burns on the arms of a consenting subject, he suggested
that one of them, which he specified, would give no pain. The result
was much less inflammation in that than in the equivalent wound, and
a more rapid healing. Similarly when chorea is cured by hypnotic
suggestion the morbid movements entirely cease—they do not reappear
in a trance-condition. On the contrary, they disappear first from the
trance-condition, and then from waking life.
It seems probable, therefore, that the pain or disturbance is not
merely transferred by suggestion to a deeper stratum, but disappears
altogether. And this view is confirmed by the fact that when morbid
appetites (for brandy, opium, &c.) are removed by suggestion from the
superficial self, we do not find any trace of their persistence in the
subliminal self. The healing suggestion may of course be insufficient,
and the morbid tastes may reappear ; but they reappear in the super
ficial self, as before.
324 F. W. H. Myers.
The problem thus suggested is one of wide-reaching importance.
To what extent, we may ask, is the result of hypnotic suggestion
merely translative ? and to what extent ablative ? Have we a right to
say that when a power or capacity is removed from the supraliminal
self it is merely transferred to the subliminal, but that when a disease
or an incapacity is removed from the supraliminal self it is abolished
altogether?
It seems surprising that a problem of such interest should not, so
far as I can discover, have been previously discussed, or even clearly
stated. But in fact the very idea that functions removed by suggestion
from the supraliminal self may in reality be transferred rather than
abolished (an idea so obvious on the theory of personality here pre
sented) is a comparatively new one, as is shown by the care with which
Professor Janet proves this point in relation to suggested systematic
anaesthesire, in his often-cited work. The elder mesmerists habitually
consider any function or phenomena which the "passes" have inhibited
as being for the time altogether non-existent. From our present point,
of view the problem widens greatly ; and ultimately involves the
question of the relation of our assumed underlying individuality to the
various personalities through which it finds partial and temporary
expression.
We will return to this inquiry when we discuss the relation to each
other of subliminal and supraliminal memories. But in the first place
we must continue our brief enumeration of the various forms which
the subliminal message may assume.
3. Alongside of these passive automatisms—or sensory presentations
from a subliminal region—with which we have thus far been dealing,
there runs a similar series of active automatisms—or motor impulses.
similarly initiated below the level of ordinary consciousness. These
have been the main subject of my previous papers ; and in my last
paper, Vol. V., pp. 526-535, several of the more important were de
scribed in a connected way. I need not, therefore, return to them
here. The reader will remember that they consist largely of affections
of the active processes of verbalisation—word-writing and word-utter
ance—and of gestures, such as table-tilting, which are practically
equivalent to speech. They include other gestures also, which some
times claim, as we shall see, to be imitative of the bearing of deceased
persons. And these motor automatisms, moreover, even when isolated
and transitory, may be inhibitory as well as impulsive. They may
consist, not in an impulse to action, but in an obscurely-felt restraining
power.1
In hysterical subjects, also, these transferences of control over the
1 See " A Record of Telepathic and other Experiences," Vol. VI., p. 358.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 323
motor system from one stratum of the personality to another form a
familiar and interesting symptom.
4. Thus far the subliminal messages which I have been describing
have in a strict sense deserved that name. They have been intimations
of one sort or another which the subliminal self has initiated and
which the supraliminal self has received. In most cases these messages
have been automatisms, active or passive, which have in no wise
interfered with the automatist's habitual stream of consciousness. He
has observed them or left them unnoted, as he pleased ; he has in no
way been identified with them. To this general rule dreams have
formed a partial exception. The dreamer is for the time being identified
with his dream ; only in rare instances can he watch it in progress,
aware that he is dreaming. And, in fact, the dream-messages are
usually lost to the waking self, since few dreams survive the departure
of the sleep which begat them. We have thus in sleep a first familiar
example of that shifting of the strata of personality which we shall
meet with under so many aspects. Sleep may pass into so-called deeper
states—hypnotic trance, spontaneous somnambulism, &c. And here
again some truth may be discerned in the paradoxical statement some
times put forward from Nancy, viz., that the hypnotic trance is identical
with ordinary sleep. Surely not identical ; yet it is true that sleep and
not hysteria is our truest spontaneous analogy to hypnotic trance. The
slightest of all changes of personality—sleep—exists, as it were, to show
us the possibility of such changes, and not only their possibility but
their advantage. Or, to speak with more accuracy, though with seeming
paradox, sleep is in fact our earliest or primary form of consciousness,
and waking life is a secondary form of consciousness developed to meet
external needs.
For our present purpose, however, it is enough to point out that at
this very early stage of subliminal messages we begin to see the possi
bility that the subliminal self may displace the supraliminal, and may
make its deliverances without caring, so to say, whether the supra
liminal self attends to them or no. Hysteria and insanity afford our
next examples, this time of a morbid displacement of the empirical
self, which may be more or less complete according to the degree of
intensity which the idees de'lirantes, the sensory hallucinations, or the
diseased motor impulses have obtained.
And following our whole series of messages as above described, we
find that the emergence of each class of subliminal message is apt to
carry with it at least a tendency to the temporary dominance of that
subliminal phase of personality from which the message in question
springs. Thus even momentary visual hallucinations are sometimes
accompanied by trance-like states. The experimentally induced halluci
nations of crystal-vision occasionally lead to trance. And, passing over
326 F. W. H. Myers.
other sensory automatisms, we find, when we come to motor automa
tisms, that the automatist has often a vivid sense of }x>ssession—of
being taken hold of by some alien intelligence, and made to write or to
utter unpremeditated speech.
The transition from the control of the empirical to the control of
the subliminal self is a gradual one, and may be effected in many
ways. The change of control may take place in one limb at a time.
For instance, a hand may first write automatically, but so that the
writing can be checked at will ; and may then go on to write irresistibly,
and may become, first analgesic, and then anaesthetic, as control over
it is more and more fully withdrawn from the superficial self. And
when this withdrawal has reached a certain stage it is likely that
trance will supervene and that the centre, so to say, of the crystallisa
tion of personality will shift for the whole organism. It will be
desirable to deal with these displacements of psychical strata at greater
length hereafter, with especial reference to the relation of the new
memories thus created to that empirical memory with which we
identify ourselves in ordinary life. For the moment I am merely
pointing out that such displacements form a final and an important
class among those many forms of subliminal message which we have
been engaged in reviewing.
And here I must close this brief introduction; proceeding in a second
chapter to the most important part of my task ; namely, the analysis of
the content of those subliminal messages whose mere external forms I
have thus far been describing. The description and the logical arrange
ment of the forms of these messages is, I think, an absolute prerequisite
for any valid analysis of their confused and complex content. Up to
this time I have seen no discussion of that content, whether from the
spiritualistic or from the materialistic side, which has not seemed to me
to suffer for lack of sufficient area of comparison. Neither from the
hysterical ward nor from the Spiritist seance-room alone shall we learn
enough of these bewildering phenomena to entitle us to form a final
opinion even on what we may have witnessed with our own eyes.
There must be a thicker harvest of facts, a freer communication
between opposing schools, a wider basis for induction, before we can be
sure of explaining rightly even the apparently simplest of subliminal
phenomena. It must be enough if some notion has here been given at
once of the variety and of the strange interrelations of the phenomena
which are waiting to be explained.
We are collecting, so to say, from palimpsest and mummy-case
fragments of writing in many languages and in many alphabets. Some
of these alphabets are still in use. Others are found in bilingual
inscriptions, which give a clue to their significance. Others are as yet
absolutely indecipherable. At first sight our ever-growing collection
The Subliminal Consciousness. 327
appears a meaningless chaos. But we are sure that there must be an
order beneath the confusion, since from that order our modern,
world has grown. And enough is already interpretable to encourage
us to further effort ; to show us that we are in the presence of things
ancient and wonderful, and of thoughts other than those we know.
Chapter II.—The Mechanism or Suggestion.
I endeavoured in the first chapter to indicate a point of view
from which a great number of scattered and apparently disparate
phenomena might be studied in true and fruitful connection. I
tried to show that however different the act of dreaming might be,
for instance, from the act of automatic writing, or a hallucination from
a trance, yet all these had something of common origin from which
their investigation might begin. For my contention is that such
phenomena as these are not initiated by that ordinary or empirical
chain of conscious states which in common parlance we identify with
ourselves, but rather by some faculty or intelligence which lies beneath
the level of ordinary consciousness, and forms another stratum— or
more strata than one—of that total individuality of each of us where
of all that we wittingly are and* do is but a limited and incomplete
manifestation. This region of hidden activity I have called the
subliminal consciousness—or even, when contrasting it with supra
liminal operation, the subliminal self. And I have explained that by
these names I wish to protest against the undue extension of such
phrases as " unconscious cerebration," and to insist that we have as.
good ground for attributing consciousness to some at least of these
subliminal operations in ourselves as we have for attributing con-
ssiousness to the intellectual performances of our neighbours. Only
the " solipsist "—that inflexible logician who refuses to ascribe
consciousness to any man in the world except himself—only he
can consistently deny consciousness to operations within himself
which, however removed from his ordinary ken, do yet equal or
transcend in complexity the operations with which he identifies his.
intellectual being.
In my first chapter I confined myself to tracing the various channels
by which the " messages " of this subliminal self—the indications, that
is to say, of processes going on beneath the threshold—are brought
upwards into the cognisance of the empirical self ; the various artifices
by which they are translated into its familiar tongue, and inscribed in
its ostensible history.
When the language—so to call it—of these subliminal messages is
understood, their content remains to study. And in fact the content of
,328 F. W. H. Myers.
these messages (as here defined) has throughout been the main topic
with which these Proceedings have been concerned. We have discussed
supernormal phenomena ; we have dwelt on the knowledge which
reaches us otherwise than through the recognised organs of sense.
And it is, I hold, in the subliminal region that such phenomena are
initiated, and that such knowledge is primarily gained.
My present purpose is not, of course, to repeat the evidence
already given, but to present it in a somewhat new connection, and to
supplement it by new matter at several points. It is possible, I think,
to frame a rough provisional scheme or synthesis into which the
various phenomena thus far noted may naturally fall, when they are
,considered simply as messages passing from one stratum to another of
the percipient's mind ; passing upwards from a subliminal region of
wider knowledge and faculty into the supraliminal realm of ordinary
empirical life. It will be our business to analyse the contents of these
messages, and to consider what kind of knowledge, what kind of faculty
may be therein implied.
And here I must recur for convenience' sake to a metaphor already
suggested. I shall speak of our habitual range of consciousness as of a
visible spectrum, bounded at one end by organic functions which we
,cannot by any effort assume under conscious control, and at the other
end by the highest efforts of reason to which the mind can attain.
Below the physiological limit of the spectrum lie a vast number of
,complex processes belonging to the body's nutrition and well-being :
processes which our remote ancestors may possibly have been able to
modify at will, but which to us seem so entirely withdrawn from our
sphere of volition that if we wish to alter them we do so from the out
side, so to say, and by drugs and medicaments ; and in just the same
way, whether the body to be treated is our own or our neighbour's.
Near to or above the psychological limit lie those "inspirations of
genius" which the reason can neither explain nor renew, and all that
unknown realm of telepathy and clairvoyance which it is our special
task to explore. There is, indeed, no ground for supposing that this
spectrum of our habitual consciousness is in any sense a continuous
one. It probably includes only those rays of knowledge to which
natural selection has forced us to become, and to continue, sensitive,
and it may therefore be studded with dark lines—full of gaps and
interruptions where some form of perception which might have con
ceivably existed for us on the same plane as our recognised senses has
,either never been developed (as a "magnetic sense"), or has declined
(like the sense of smell) from its ancestral potency.
And again, there is not necessarily any deeply-lying distinction
between powers which I have classed as infra-physiological and powers
which I have classed as supra-psychological,—beyond the respective
The Subliminal Consciousness. 329
limits of my imaginary spectrum. For aught we know, these powers
may go often together, and an intelligence which is still sensitive to
perceptions organic and in common life forgotten may be sensitive also
to perceptions supernormal and in common life unattained.
And, indeed, the interrelation of these unknown powers can only
gradually and empirically become discernible to our experiment and
observation. Our supraliminal consciousness is but a floating island
upon the " abysmal deep " of the total individuality beneath it ; and the
waves which wash under one end of our narrow standing-place are
continuous with the waves which wash under the other.
Nevertheless, if used with caution, our distinction between the
infra-physiological and the supra-psychological prolongations of the
spectrum of consciousness may be of service in grouping into two
or three main masses the sporadic phenomena with which we have
to deal. Any grouping, indeed, which suggests even partial truths
will here be of service ; so incoherent are the separate observations
which are still every month recorded as noteworthy ; so unexplained
by psychologist or physician are even those observations which have
been so often repeated as no longer to be worth recording.
It will be convenient to deal first with the infra-physiological
phenomena ; and among these it will be convenient to begin with such
phenomena as the practice of hypnotism is rendering tolerably familiar.
The time has certainly not arrived when either psychology or
physiology can offer a logical or complete conspectus of these new
facts. Every year—almost every month—has its fresh surprises, and
each group of experiments still depends so inexplicably on the personal
qualities both of operator and of subject that it would be absurd to argue
as though we had all the phenomena before us. For my present pur
pose three rough divisionswill suffice. I will take first what may be called
the great dissociative triumph of hypnotism, namely, the inhibition
of pain under conditions of nerve and tissue with which under ordinary
circumstances pain seems inevitably connected. Secondly, I shall
take what I may call the associative or synthetic triumphs of hypnotism,
namely, the production and control of organic processes which no effort
of the ordinary man's can set going, or in any way influence. And
thirdly, I will take the intellectual or moral achievements of hypnotism ;
achievements based, no doubt, upon physiological changes resembling
the changes involved in the two previous classes of effect, but which,
nevertheless, must needs have for us a deeper significance, and suggest
problems still more profound. . . ......
1. The suppression of pain, by whatever means, is in itself so
welcome a result that men have not been apt to look closely into
its psychological concomitants. Yet it is obvious that psychologically
the whole interest lies in the question whether pain is suppressed
z
330 F. W. H. Myers.
along with sensation of every kind, or whether other modes of sensation
persist, and only pain is inhibited. Our ancestors, one may say, had
already a rough practical knowledge of this distinction. They knew
that if you felled a man with a club, and stunned him, he would not
for some time feel the pain of the blow. And they knew also that if
you ran pins into particular points on a witch's body, the witch,
although perfectly awake, would feel no smart.
Now, the second of these practical discoveries, although often
derided by enlightened persons, and called " the meanest of paganish
and popish superstitions," was in reality of much greater importance
than the first. By stunning your enemy you only proved that vital
functions could continue unimpaired while the brain's action was so
far disturbed that all consciousness was for the time abolished. By
pricking the witch in her so-called " marks "—-we should now call them
analgesic zones or patches—you proved that pain was a dissociable
accident of organic injury, that other sensations might persist and only
the sensation of pain be in some way inhibited.1 The world grew more
humane, and the poor women who had been tortured under the
meaningless name of witches were pitied or laughed at under the
almost equally meaningless name of hysterics. Physicians, indeed,
were still loth to draw any lessons from phenomena so morbid and so
',' fraudulescent." But whenever Science resolutely attacks any amalgam,
however cunningly compounded, of charlatanism and fact, the time
must soon come when "the bowling beats the batting," when tests are
devised and rules of evidence laid down which the half-educated impostor
cannot meet. So it has been with hysteria, which to the psychologist
at any rate has now become more instructive than any other group of
physical derangements. And the analgesia or insensitiveness to pain
which runs wild in hysteria is now being directed into useful channels
by that power which we shall have to discuss as " hypnotic suggestion."
The inhibition of pain, indeed, is now practised, so to say, no longer as
a laboratory experiment, but on a commercial scale ; and while the
rearguard of the medical confraternity still deny its possibility, the
pioneers are showing to the world many of the patients, say, of
the H6pital Civil at Nancy traversing the phases of their various
organic maladies with scarcely more than malaise, and laying down
their nervous sufferings in the out-patients' room as easily as their
cloaks and hats.
My object here, however, is not to discuss either the obvious
advantages or the possible dangers of this suppression of the ancient
1 Local analgesia occurs also in some rare cases in diseases affecting certain tracts
,of the spinal cord. I am assuming in the text, for simplicity's sake, that with some
witches, as with some hysterics, these patches were analgesic only, and not
anaesthetic.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 331'
curse. Rather I am concerned to show that some intelligence is
involved in a suppression thus achieved—achieved not as narcotics
achieve it, by a wholesale deadening of consciousness of all kinds, but
by the selection and inhibition from among all the percipient's possible
sensations of precisely those which will be in any way disagreeable to
' him. It is not the mere anresthetisation of some particular segment of
the body or particular group of nerve-endings—such as cocaine, for in
stance, might produce—but a removal also of a number of concomitant
feelings of nausea, exhaustion, anxiety, not always directly dependent on
the principal pain, but needing, one would say, to be first subjectively
distinguished as disagreeable before they are picked out for inhibition.
And note that this freedom from pain is achieved without either
deadening or dislocating the general nervous system ; with no approach
either to coma or to hysteria. Even the so-called hypnotic trance is no
longer a necessity in these experiments. With some subjects, and in long
operations, it may be needful to induce it; but many minor deliverances
from pain are effected either by simple suggestion in the waking state
or by post-hypnotic suggestions given in the trance, but destined to
fulfil themselves after the awakening. And if trance there be, that
trance is often no mere lethargy, but a state fully as alert-and vivid as
waking life ; as, for instance, in a case recorded by Professor Delbceuf
and Dr. Fraipont, where a woman laughed and joked during the crisis
of a severe confinement.1
In view of cases like this it is plain that hypnotic analgesia is by no
means a mere ordinary narcotic—a fresh specimen of the methods
already familiar for checking pain by checking all conscious cerebration.
It is a new departure ; it is the first successful attempt at dissociating
forms of sensation which throughout the known history of the human
organism have almost invariably been found to exist together.
Now if this achievement were due to the ingenuity of some
physician, we should surely hail him as the master mind of the age.
Must we not still admit that there is intelligence, although that
intelligence works unseen ? Let all due honour, indeed, be given to
the hypnotist, who directs that hidden knowledge towards the relief c f
human pain. But he directs the knowledge ; he does not himself create
or even possess it. Professor Bernheim's command, " Feel pain no
more ! " is no more a scientific instruction how not to feel pain than the
1 Revue dc VHypnotisms, April, 1891. This carefully recorded case presents several
significant points ; e.g., the increased power of the entranced patient to accelerate the
efforts of nature (pp. 291,296) ; the recollection in a subsequent hypnotic state (p.293) ;
the influence of suggestion in producing the secretion of milk at a fixed hour (p. 294*.
In this same subject a cyst on a tendon at the wrist, which had always reappeared
after crushing, was crushed in the hypnotic state with the suggestion that it should
not reappear, and appeared no more.
Z 2
332 F. W. H. Myers.
prophet's " Wash in Jordan and be clean ! " was a pharmacopceal
prescription for leprosy.
I have dealt thus far with this new faculty of dissociation in its
simplest and most massive form. But the mere production of general
analgesia—the mere severance of sensations of pain from sensations of
contact, temperature, &c,—is by no means the only dissociation which
hypnotic suggestion can effect. The " negative hallucinations " or
" systematised amestheshe," which are so familiar in hypnotic experi
ment, are in fact segregations of particular groups of sensory impres
sions, which are then transferred from the supraliminal to the hypnotic
self. You may say to a good hypnotic subject : " After you are
awakened you will not see Mr. A., nor hear his voice, nor feel
his touch " ; and in fact the subject, awakened and apparently
normal, will be irresponsive to those special stimuli—will seem
and in a sense will be absolutely incapable of seeing, hearing, or
feeling Mr. A. But nevertheless—and this result, which experiment
has in many cases actually detected, is, from our standpoint, probable
enough—the sights, sounds, and touches which are unperceived hy
the subject's supraliminal are habitually perceived by his subliminal
consciousness ; and in fact, he must somehow or other hear and dis
tinguish Mr. A.'s voice in order to know when not to hear him,—feel and
distinguish Mr. A.'s touches in order to know what touches are not to
be felt. This observation, which Professor Janet, for example, has
worked out with great delicacy, strikingly shows the inadequacy of the
old views which saw nothing in hypnotism except a narrowing of pre
existing powers, a focussing of the intelligence on such ideas as the
hypnotiser might choose to suggest. "The hypnotiser," such men would
say, " fixes the subject's attention on himself; and the subject is con
sequently incapable of seeing or hearing Mr. A." Now this explana
tion applies well enough to cases of fascination, where the operator
keeps the subject's eyes fixed on his own and the subject's whole mind
intent on watching his movements. But in the more delicate experi
ment above described the case is entirely different. The subject pays
no special attention to the hypnotiser, and may be superficially occupied
on anything you please. But meantime his subliminal consciousness
is attending to its special task ; it is singling out and keeping apart the
sights, sounds, touches which proceed from Mr A.; it is adding to the
perceptivities of ordinary vigilance this special watchfulness of its own.
2. This segregation of a group of sensations which I have just
been describing may be classed with equal justice as a dissociative or
as an associative act. The group of sensations is severed from the
main supraliminal current, and thus far the act is dissociative. But
the group itself has somehow to be formed ; and when we begin to see
complexity in the group, strangeness in the synergy which it involves,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 333
then we may fitly begin to dwell on the associative side of the achieve
ment. I have already pointed out that the inhibition of all the pain
consequent on an operation is in reality a complicated associative pro
cess, and involves the singling out and fitting together of a great
number of sensations which have only the subjective bond of being*
disagreeable to the subject,—with a view of then inhibiting this whole
complex of sensations, and leaving the supraliminal consciousness in
perfeet ease. The cases on which I am now about to dwell are funda
mentally akin to that previous type ; but they have this difference,
that the groups of sensations which suggestion calls into being are
formed to be felt, not to be unfelt—are themselves no longer the absent
or deleted background, but the prominent and conspicuous phenomenon.
And here let us pause for a while:—in accordance with a pian which
I have already suggested—and consider whether we have any sort of
guide as to what we may expect in this new direction. This is exactly
the moment for such a review. For as we gradually gain power over
our organisms we may expect to observe various vital phenomena
passing through three stages. First, they will occur spontaneously.
Next, they will be empirically produced. And lastly they will be pro
duced scientifically ; produced, that is to say, with real knowledge of
the conditions on which they depend. And with regard to these
phenomena of nervous association, of organic process, presently to be
described, we are now just entering the empirical stage ; the stage at
which we can sometimes set the machinery going, but have no notion
how it works. It is therefore important to take stock, so to say, of the
whole range of spontaneous phenomena corresponding to the phenomena
which we are endeavouring to produce. We shall thus learn- how far
we are likely to be able to go, and we may get hints as to the quickest
line of progress.
What we have to consider, then, are the instances of the so-called
" action of the mind on the body " which have attracted notice before
hypnotic suggestion was known. Now, of course, there is no real line
of delimitation between those actions of the mind on the body which
have been considered wonderful and those which have been taken as
matters of course. That I should be able to hold my pen because I
wish to hold it is ultimately just as great a mystery as that I should
develop stigmata from meditating on the Crucifixion. But we must let
this pass ; and even as we have already taken for granted a habitual
spectrum of consciousness, so also we must take for granted a habitual
range of will, within which our mental impressions are accustomed
to produce effects—mainly but not solely motor effects—upon our
organism. The cases now to be cited are those where mental
impressions have produced effects, either voluntary, but outside of
the usual range of volition, or involuntary (so far at least as the
334 F. W. H. Myers.
supraliminal will goes), and extending below the physiological limit of
the conscious spectrum,—involving organic processes which we cannot
wittingly initiate or control.1
Let us take first those small extensions of ordinary power over the
organism which some men can achieve by the exercise of waking will.
Next, let us take the unspecialised effects of emotion upon the organism.
And thirdly, let us take the specialised effects—the cases where
unintended external suggestion or involuntary self-suggestion has
produced results no longer vague and massive, but corresponding with,
something like intelligent or purposive exactness to the nature of the
shock.
(1) The extensions of man's waking power—his power in " cold
blood " as we say—over his organism are not as yet very numerous.
We have some instances of advanced control over the digestive system,
"voluntary rumination,"and acceleration of peristaltic movements. We
have Colonel Townsend, with his historic power of quickening and slow
ing the heart's action. We have alleged instances of voluntary con
traction and dilatation of the pupil. And we have a few dubious
cases like that of the great preacher Irving, who is said to have checked
choleraic symptoms by supreme effort of will—to have stayed the
advancing army of microbes (si credere dignum est) by the intensity
of the tonic stimulus given through the brain to his own heart or
secretions.
The list of man's conquests over his organism, as old text-books
give it, hardly goes further than this. I shall have to show further on
how far this list is from exhausting the possibilities of the case.
(2) Let us go on to the unspecialised results of emotion, by which
I mean the effects which are determined in one direction or another
rather by the antecedent conditions of the organism than by the
specific character of the emotion itself. The emotion, of course, will pro
duce different classes of effects according as it is of a tonic or of a
depressing character ; but the direction which the exaltation or
(oftener) the depression takes will follow the lines of least resistance or
of readiest overflow. Tonic mental impressions have improved the
general health in a great variety of ways, and have caused gout and
rheumatism to disappear. Depressing shocks have affected almost
1 Most of the cases here briefly mentioned will be found in Dr. Hack Tuke's useful
work on The Influence of the Mind upon the JSodi/. (London: Churchill; 2nd Edit.,
1884.) The cases cited in that book are, some of them, admittedly remote and ill-
recorded ; but few will dispute the general truth of Dr. Hack Tuke's evidence. I
may add that my principle of arrangement is quite different from his, and that he is
in no way committed to the use here made of his facts. A collection of more recent
cases will be found in a tract by Dr. Morton Prince on "Association Neuroses,"
reprinted from the Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease (Boston, U S.A ) May
1891.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 335
every organ in the body. Nausea, purgation, sweating, shivering, arrest
of milk, whitening of hair, are familiar results. We also find cases of
deafness, blindness, aphasia, spasmodic asthma, and jaundice thus
induced. Chorea, epilepsy, rupture of pulmonary vessels, tetanoid
convulsions, hemiplegia, idiocy, may also follow, and syncope or apoplexy
may kill on the spot. These varied effects show how vast and vague is
the power which the highest cortical centres possess over the organism.
(3) Our third class has to consist of results specialised, not by the
previous condition of the .organism, but by the nature of the exciting
cause itself. These are partly suggestions from without, partly self-
suggestions,—not of a purposive, but of a morbid or arbitrary kind.
The most important of these, if fully established, would certainly be
those definite influences which are perhaps exerted on the embryo
through the mother's organism.1 But there are also sympathetic pains
or marks which sometimes follow upon the sight of suffering or accident
—as ecchymosis from seeing a friend bled ; swelling of the lips from
seeing a child press its knife between its lips ; or a red mark on the
ankle from seeing a gate likely to fall against a child.2
Such, too, are the cases of uncontrolled or morbid imitativeness ;
beginning with imitative yawning, and including imitative spasms
and paralyses, on the type of croup, epilepsy, paraplegia, <fcc.
In these cases there is a strong suggestion from without, morbidly
accepted by the organism. In other cases the external stimulus may
be very slight, but the patient's self-suggestion gives it some peculiar
power. Thus Dr. Morton Prince cites a case where a lady believed—
had in fact effectively suggested to herself—that the mere presence of. a
1 Few subjects stand more in need of statistical and experimental investigation
than this question as to the degree of definiteness of the influence which the mother's
sensations and emotions can exercise upon the unborn child. See HackTuke, op. cit.,
Vol. II., pp. 68, 69, and cases in Li^beault, Lc Sommcil ct les etuts analogues, and in
the British Medical Journal, 1880, Vol. I. In the Revue de VHypnotisme, August,
1891, p. 52, Dr. Liebeault describes a case where Madame L. received so great a shock
from suddenly meeting a woman with port-wine mark over half the face that durin g
the whole of a pregnancy which was then beginning (although as yet unknown to
herself) she suffered from a distressing hallucination which represented many of the
strangers whom she met as disfigured in this special way. She had, however, no
brooding or anxiety about her child. When the child was born the hallucination
disappeared, but the child had a port-wine mark over half the face. Dr. Liebeault
inferred that this woman would prove easily suggestible ; and this was the case. He
proposes that physicians should suggest to pregnant women marks of a definite but
harmless kind, with the view of obtaining direct experimental proof of a pre-natal
influence, which, if it exists, might obviously be utilised for the child's good. And
indeed some striking analogies between these alleged cases cf maternal influence on
the unborn child and the now known results of suggestion after birth furnish a strong,
though indirect, argument in favour of the view that the embryo may receive
definite and localised, as well as massive and pervading impressions from shocks
undergone by the mother's organism.
- Hack Tuke, op. cit., Vol. II., p. 35.
33G F. W. H. Myers.
rose in, the room brought on violent catarrh and weeping. And in
fact, whenever she smelt a rose these symptoms did occur. Her
physician at last bethought him of a remedy which matched the
disease. He suddenly presented to her an artificial rose, which she
took to be real. The distressing symptoms followed at once. But
when he showed her its innocence of scent or pollen the mental shock
restored, if I may so say, the sanity of her subliminal nasal self. The
self-suggestion was broken, and she could thenceforth smell roses as
safely as her neighbours.
The interest in this case lies in the strength, the definiteness, and
the isolation of the " association-neurosis" or morbid self-suggestion.
In hysteria, I need not say, fresh association-neuroses may be formed
every day, and the whole range of action seems dominated by that
random self-suggestiveness which I have already described as a disease
of the hypnotic self.
Of course, spontaneous self-suggestions may be beneficial as well as
noxious. The patient's notion that particular things will do him good
may be as efficacious as his notion that particular things will do him
harm. And before hypnotic suggestion was heard of, the adroit
physician had taken advantage of this "power of the imagination" to
effect many a cure. No drug has produced such striking and various
effects as a bread pill. The empty chloroform bottle has produced an
insensibility as deep as chloroform itself can engender.
But here we are passing insensibly into the " suggestive medicine "
of the modern hypnotic physician. Nor is this matter for surprise.
For if hypnotism be, as I maintain, a name for a group of empirical
practices by means of which we can manage to get hold of subliminal
faculty, we must expect that some of those practices will fit themselves
on to simple rules already known. And in fact these spontaneous
manifestations of subliminal associative power operating below the
physiological limit of our habitual spectrum of consciousness repeat
themselves throughout all their range in our hypnotic experiments,
with the difference that they are now no longer random but purposive,
and can be ingeniously directed into subtler channels than hazard or
disease could shape.
This is not the place for any complete enumeration of the modes of
intimate control over the organism with which hypnotic suggestion is
yearly making us more familiar. I will but cite instances enough to
show how varied, complex, and penetrating that authority has already
shown itself to be.
Professor Beaunis and Dr. Krafft-Ebing have slowed the pulse by
hypnotic suggestion;1 and these savants, as well as Professor Bernheim,
1 Beaunis, Le Somnumbulisme Provoque ; and see, for list of articles on vesication
by suggestion, Professor Pitres' L'Hystirie et VHypnolisme, Vol. II., p. 179.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 337
M. Focachon and others, have produced redness and blisters by
the same means. Drs. Mabille, Ramadier, Bourru, Burot, have pro
duced localised hyperaemia, epistaxis, ecchymosis.1 Dr. Forel and
,others have restored arrested secretions at a precisely fixed hour.2
Dr. Krafft-Ebing has produced a rise of temperature at moments fixed
by himself,—a rise, for instance, from 37deg. to 38.5deg. C.3 Burot has
lowered the temperature of a hand as much as lOdeg. C. by suggestion.4
He supposes that the mechanism employed is the constriction of the
brachial artery, beneath the biceps. " How can it be," he asks, " that
when one merely says to the subject, ' your hand will become cold,' the
vaso-motor nervous system answers by constricting the artery to the
degree necessary to achieve the result desired 1 C'est ce qui depasse
notre imagination."
Two or three instances may be given more at length.
The following is an abstract of Dr. Levillain's account of an experi
ment performed by Professor Charcot before a large class at the
Salpetriere.5
Some few hysterical patients, it appears, suffer from a swelling with
local cyanosis and low surface temperature,. styled by Professor Charcot
" blue oedema." Professor Charcot, indeed, claims to have been the first to
describe, in June, 1889, this exceedingly rare hysterical abnormality. It
then occurred to him to try whether he could produce the condition by
hypnotic suggestion. " On April 26th, 1890, a hysterical woman was
deeply hypnotised, and it was suggested to her that her right hand and wrist
would swell and become cyanosed. After she was woke this suggestion
gradually realised itself, and in four days the right hand was in the condition
of that of the patients who had had spontaneous attacks. There was a
smooth surface, hardly any pitting on pressure, but much dull-blue mottled
swelling (which had obliged her to discontinue wearing her rings) and
amesthesia. A bright red patch was produced by touch. . . . M. Charcot
re-hypnotised the patient, and assured her that her hand was quite natural
again, helping his suggestion with a little massage. After a quarter of an
hour the anaesthesia, venous colour, and swelling were gone."
The subliminal consciousness, it will be seen, was able to turn out
1 See, for a brief account, Revue de VHypnotisme, December, 1887, p. 183.
2 Revue de VHypnotisme, April, 1889, p. 29S.
3 Revue de VHypnotisme, March, 1890, p. 278. Compare the inexplicable rises of
temperature in Dr. Teales case, Lancet, J875, Vol. I., pp. 340, 343, 457, Vol. II.,
p. 107, and 1881, Vol. I., pp. 797, 842. This apparent isolability of temperature-
changes, generally so delicately indicative of conditions of the entire organism, is a
phenomenon quite as noteworthy as the dissociability of pain from organic injury.
4 Revue de VHypnotisme, January, 1890, p. 197.
6Revue de VHypnotisme, June, 1890, p. 353, Progres Mid., October 11th and 18th,
1890, and see Practitioner, January, 1891, p. 50. It would be well to be able to state
explicitly in experiments of this class that the consent of the subject had been
previously obtained.
338 F. W. H. Myers.
to order the most complicated novelty in the way of hysterical freaks
of circulation. Let us turn to an equally marked disturbance of the
inflammatory type, the production, namely, of suppurating blisters by
the word of command. This phenomenon has a peculiar interest, since,
from the accident of a strong emotional association with the idea of
stigmata on hands and feet, this special organic effect has been antici
pated by the introverted broodings of a line of mystics, from- S. Francis
of Assisi to Louise Lateau. A strange confirmation of ancient legend !
A singular testimony to the intensity of the meditations of that great
saint who
Nel crudo sasso intra Tevere ed Arno
Da Cristo prese l'ultimo sigillo,
Che le sue membra due anni portarno.
I will give one or two of the most striking and least known
examples of this suggested vesication.
The following experiment was performed by Dr. J. Rybalkin, in
presence of his colleagues, at the HOpital Marie, at St. Petersburg.1
Dr. Rybalkin had previously experimented in the same way with his
subject.
The subject was Macar K., a house-painter, aged 16, hysterical and
almost wholly anaesthetic. He was hypnotised at 8.30 a.m., and told : "When
you awake, you will be cold ; you will go and warm yourself at the stove, and
you will burn your forearm on the line which I have traced out. This will
hurt you ; a redness will appear on your arm ; it will swell ; there will be
blisters." On being awakened, the patient obeyed the suggestion. He even
uttered a cry of pain at the moment when he touched the door of the stove,
—which had not been lighted.
Some minutes later, a redness, without swelling, could be seen at the
place indicated, and the patient complained of sharp pain on its being;
touched. A bandage was put on his arm, and he went to bed, under our
eyes.
At the close of our visit, at 11.30, we observed a considerable swelling,
accompanied with redness and with a papulous erythema at the place of the
burn. A mere touch anywhere within four centimetres of the burn caused
severe pain. The surgeon, Dr. Pratine, placed a bandage on the forearm,
which extended up to the superior third of the arm.
When the dressing was removed at 10 next morning we saw at the place
of the burn two blisters, one of the size of a nut and the other of a pea,
and a number of small blisters. Around this tract the skin was red and
sensitive. Before the experiment this region had been anaesthetic. At
3 p.m. the blisters met in one large blister, as is seen in the photographic
plate herewith. In the evening the blister, which was full of a semi-
transparent yellowish fluid, burst, and a scab formed on the raw skin. A
week later ordinary sensibility returned to the scar, and after a fortnight
there was only a red mark in the place of the burn.
1 Scvuc de VHypnotisnie, June, 1890, p. 3G1.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 339
Still more striking is a case of cruciform marks,—not hitherto
published, though printed in the S. P. R. Journal for May, 1887, pp.
100-5, with comments by the late Edmund Gurney, which express for
the first time, so far as I am aware, the very kernel of the problem
which these strangely intellectual modifications of the organism involve.
(M.—370 )
From Dr. Biggs, of Lima. We owe the record to the kindness of Mr.
R. Roxburgh, of 1, Victoria-buildings, Weston-super-Mare, to whose brother
the account was addressed.
October 18th, 1885.
Dear Mr. Roxburgh,—In reply to your favour of 1st ult., asking me to
give you a statement in regard to the cross which you saw on Maria's arm,
and which I caused to appear there by acting on her mind while in magnetic
sleep, it was done in this way :—I put her into a magnetic or mesmeric
sleep by laying my hand on her head for about a minute. I then said : "Maria,
do you hear me ? " Answer: "Yes." " Are you thoroughly magnetised ? "
Answer : " Yes. " " Now listen attentively ; a cross is going to appear on your
right arm, and remain there until I tell it to go away. Here is where it is to
appear. " (I then described a cross with my forefinger on the inner side of her
right forearm.) " Have you understood what I have said to you 1 " Answer :
" Yes." I then awakened her by two or three up-passes ; for the next two
or three days she seemed sulky and out of sorts, would now and then rub
her right arm, over the part where the cross was to appear ; when asked
why she did this, said there was an itching and she could not help scratching
the place, although there was nothing to be seen that could cause" the
irritation. I then magnetised her as before, and asked : ' ' Do you recollect
what I told you the other day about the cross that is to appear on your arm ? "
Answer : " Yes." " Will it appear ?" Answer : "Yes." "When?" Answer: "In
a few days." " Well, it must come out in three days '; do you understand 1 "
Answer : " Yes. " By the time appointed a dusky-red cross, four or five inches
long and about three inches wide, made its appearance. At first we pretended
not to notice this, although we could often see the lower part of it when her
sleeve was partly rolled up in some of her duties in and about the house ;
she was our housemaid. It was only at intervals, when thrown into the
magnetic sleep, that we could get a full view of the cross ; never a word had
been said to her about the cross in her waking moments, for some time,
several weeks, until one day I pretended to have caught sight of the strange
mark on her arm, and said : " Why, Maria, what is the matter with your
arm 1 have you hurt it ? What mark is this 1 Let me see ; pull up your
sleeve." She did so with a slightly sulky, ashamed air. " Why, it looks like a
cross ; where did you get this1" "I don*t know, sir ! " " How long has this been
on your arm 1 " " More than a month, sir. " " Have you felt anything ? " "No,
sir ; only at one time I had a great deal of itching and burning, and a few
days afterwards this mark came out on my arm." After this we frequently
spoke to Maria about the cross, and when requested to she would roll up her
sleeve and show it to visitors, although she always seemed reluctant to do
so. Many months afterwards she left our service, and in about two weeks
340 F. W. H. Myers.
she made her appearance at my office in town, asking me to remove the cross
from her arm as it attracted the notice of the family with whom she was
now living, and she was much annoyed at the many questions asked her. I
magnetised her, and then told her that the cross would disappear in a few
days, and she would be no more troubled with it. I saw her a few days
afterwards at Salto ; the cross had disappeared.
Another case, which I recollect having told you of : this was the first of
this kind of experiment that I tried ; it was in Santa Barbara, California. I
was staying there in 1879 with a friend, Mr. G., a long-resident chemist in
that town. His wife had a kind of half servant and half companion, a girl of
about 18, who complained to me one day of a pain through her chest. With
out her knowing what I intended to do, I tried magnetism ; she fell into a
deep magnetic sleep in a few minutes. With this subject I tried many inter
esting experiments which I will pass over. One day I magnetised her as usual
and told her in a whisper (I had found her to be more susceptible this way
than when I spoke aloud in my usual voice) : ' ' You will have a red cross
appear on the upper part of your chest, only on every Friday. In the course
of some time, the words Stmcta above the cross, and Omcis underneath it will
appear also ; at same time a little blood will come from the cross. " In my vest
pocket I had a cross of rock crystal. I opened the top button of her dress,
and placed this cross on the upper part of the manubrium, a point she could
not see unless by aid of a looking-glass, saying to her : ' ' This is the spot where
the cross will appear." This was on a Tuesday. I asked Mrs. G to watch the
girl and tell me if anything seemed to ail her. Next day Mrs. G. told me
she had seen the girl now and again put her left wrist over the top part of
her chest, over the dress ; this was frequently repeated, as if she felt some
tickling, or slight irritation about the part, but not otherwise noticed ; she
seemed to carry her hand up now and then unconsciously. When Friday
came, I said, after breakfast, "Come, let me magnetise you a little ; you
have not had a dose for several days." She was always willing
to be magnetised, as she always expressed herself as feeling very
much rested and comfortable afterwards. In a few minutes she was
in a deep sleep. I unbuttoned the top part of her dress, and there, to my
complete and utter astonishment, was a pink cross, exactly over the place
where I had put the one of crystal. It appeared every Friday, and was in
visible on all other days. This was seen by Mr. and Mrs. G., and my old
friend and colleague, Dr. B., who had become much interested in my experi
ments in magnetism, and often suggested the class of experiments he wished
to see tried. About six weeks after the cross first appeared I had occasion to
take a trip to the Sandwich Islands. Before going, I magnetised the girl,
told her that the cross would keep on showing itself every Friday for about
four months. I intended my trip to the Islands to last about three
months. I did this to save the girl from the infliction of this mark so
strangely appearing perhaps for a lifetime, in case anything might happen to
me and prevent me from seeing her again. I also asked Dr. B. and Mr. G. to
write me by every mail to Honolulu, and tell me if the cross kept on appear
ing every Friday, and to be very careful to note any change should any take
place, such as the surging of blood or any appearance of the words " Sancta
Crucis." I was rather curious to know if distance between us, the girl and
The Subliminal Consciousness. 341
myself, over 2,000 miles, made any difference in the apparition of the cross.
While I was at the Sandwich Islands I received two letters from Mr. G. and
one from Dr. B., by three different mails, each telling me that the cross kept
on making its appearance as usual ; blood had been noticed once, and also
part of the letter S above the cross, nothing more. I returned in a little
less than three months. The cross still made its appearance every Friday,
and did so for about a month more, but getting paler and paler until it
became invisible, as nearly as possible four months from the time I left for
the Sandwich Islands. The above-mentioned young woman was a native
Californian, of Spanish parentage, about 18 years of age, of tolerably good
health, parents and grandparents alive. She was of fair natural intelligence,
but utterly ignorant and uneducated.
The third case was thus : A lady asked me to try the power of
magnetism in reducing the size of a large goitre which troubled her. Her
neck was 42 centimetres in circumference. Within a few days it began to
decrease : it gradually came down to 37i centimetres, and it gave her no
further annoyance. This lady felt the magnetic power in a very limited and
singular way ; her eyelids would close in a few minutes, and she could not
open them until demagnetised, but she retained the use of all her faculties
perfectly, so that while I was magnetising her, and occasionally manipulating
the goitre, we usually kept up quite a lively conversation on different
subjects, she being a highly educated and clever woman. She speaks several
languages with great fluency. One day I conceived the idea of making a
cross appear on the goitre, on which I was manipulating. I took the little
crystal cross out of my vest pocket, and gently placed it on the goitre for a
few seconds, desiring as strongly as I could that a corresponding mark should
appear there as soon as possible. I am sure she did not perceive my doing
this, or she would most certainly have made some inquiries. She was
conversing all the time on some indifferent subject. I usually went to see her
every day at a certain hour ; the magnetising and manipulation usually
occupied about 20 minutes. Every day I anxiously looked for an appearance
of the cross for a week or so, and then made up my mind that the experiment
had failed, until one day, about six weeks afterwards, she received me in
rather an excited manner, and taking hold of both my hands, she said, "Did
you ever wish that any mark should appear on any part of my body t and
what was it 1 " I said, much astonished myself, "Yes, nearly two months
ago I wished that a cross should appear on the goitre." She immediately
removed her collar, and said, " There it is." Sure enough there was a pink
cross. She then told me that the evening before her dressmaker had come
in to try a new dress on, and exclaimed, " What a curious mark is on your
neck ? " She immediately went to the looking-glass and saw it, and
afterwards showed it to her husband. This mark only lasted two or three
days, gradually fading away.
In the case of the Californian girl, it might be asked why I conceived the
idea of making a cross appear only every Friday. It was because I once saw
in San Francisco, in 1873, a girl who every Friday became cataleptic, in a
position as if she were nailed to the cross. She had marks of the nails on
hands and feet, blood oozing from them. The medical man in attendance
said there was the wound in her side also bleeding. This girl was a protegee
342 F. W. H. Myers.
of the Catholic Archbishop Alemario of San Francisco. She was very fervent
at her prayers, and strict in all her church observances.
The San Francisco papers of the beginning of 1873 had a great deal to say
about her. These cases have not been infrequent. I then supposed it to be
a case of auto-magnetisation, and my experiments since have proved it to
have been so, to my own satisfaction at least. I once sent word to the
Archbishop that I thought I could explain to him the how and the wherefore
of these wonderful occurrences ; all could be accounted for through the power
of animal magnetism. His answer (by a mutual friend) was "that magnetism
was of the devil, and he would have nothing to do with the subject." So the
poor girl was first called a saint full of miracles, and afterwards condemned
as an impostor and expelled, if not from the Church, at least from the kind
protection of the Archbishop. M. H. Biggs, M.D.
After discussing the possible mechanism by which the tingling of a
finger, when we think steadily of one finger, may be brought about,
Mr. Gurney goes on to say :—
" But difficulties increase as we go on. However the finger was affected
by the idea of it, the idea of it was at any rate a distinct thing—an image
which could be clearly detached in the mind. This cannot be said of all the
parts of the body which have been affected by suggestion ; for instance, a
small area on the arm or neck is not, like a finger, clearly detachable in
thought. I am not aware that redness has ever been produced in such an
area by internal causes, except under the influence of hypnotic suggestion ; I
have myself seen a red patch so produced in a very few minutes on a ' subject '
of Dr. Liebeault. And another and still longer step has to be made when we
come to actual inflammation and vesication, which involve a metabolism of
tissue over and above mere local erethism, and not to be accounted for merely
by the dilatation of the small arteries. What can we suppose to be the complete
physiological history of such a tissue-change, produced under the influence
of an idea, and presumably therefore -by efferent nervous impulses ? This
is a question which probably no physiologist would profess satisfactorily to
answer.
"The results above recorded (if not produced by rubbing, and apart from
the telepathic feature in the last case) seem to involve an equally long step in
another direction. If it was hard to conceive the correspondence of a patch
of minutely localised erethism with the idea of the locality, what are we to
say when the patch corresponds with the idea to the extent of being
cruciform ? It cannot be pronounced impossible that the cerebral area
involved in the idea of a cross should itself be cruciform ; since the same
elements are no doubt involved as where a cross is visibly presented, and in
the case of a visible cross the configuration with which the fibres start from
the stimulated part of the retina may be preserved at their central terminus.
But no one has ever supposed that a nervous impulse transmitted from
ideational tracts to lower centres, and thence to the periphery, was conveyed
by fibres which retained precisely similar spatial relations, so that the course
of the discharge, wherever cut across, would present a similar section. Pass
ing inwards from the periphery along the track of nervous disturbance, should
we find cruciformity of area all the way 1 And if not, where docs it stop ?
The Subliminal Consciousness. 343
And if it stops anywhere, what is the connection between the cruciform
effect at the periphery, and the cause (even if we assume that to be cruci
form) in the brain ? In this case, moreover, there would be considerable
difficulty in applying the hypothesis of a hallucination of pain which sets up
the appropriate physical condition. For it seems doubtful whether a cruci
form pain can be truly imagined, at any rate as occupying a small area of the
body. I do not suggest these difficulties as insuperable objections to the
hypothesis of a direct effect ; I believe that hypnotic facts carry us considerably
beyond any physiological explanations that are yet possible. But phrases
about ' the influence of the mind on the body ' are so often loosely adduced
as though they were themselves the explanation needed, that it is as well to
keep the real obscurity of the physiological problems in view."
There is yet one more case to which I must allude before I pass
on ;—a case in which the intellectual character, as I have termed it, of the
organic process which responds to suggestion is illustrated in a striking
and complex way. Mdlle. lima S., a subject observed by Drs.
Jendrassik and von Krafft-Ebing1 (mainly at Gratz), was ultimately
cured by hypnotic suggestion (or so Dr. Krafft-Ebing claims in 1888)
of a life-long tendency to hysteria and melancholy, such as had driven
her grandfather, father, brother, and sister to suicide. She was there
fore on the whole a great gainer ; but her extreme susceptibility to
blistering by suggestion amounted to a real risk in the absence of
careful guardianship. Once at least she was much injured and offended
by the culpable act of a medical student who laid a pair of scissors
upon her chest, telling her that they were red-hot,—and thus created a
serious wound, which took two months to heal. Krafft-Ebing made a
humane variation on this risky experiment. Like Dr. Biggs in our last
case, he ordered the production of red patches of definite shapes,—,
which were to be formed without itching, pain, or inflammation. The
history of the process thus set up is a curious one. The organism had
to perform, so to say, a novel feat ; which took a great deal longer than
the rough and ready process of vesication. From February 24th to
May 3rd, 1888, a livid red hyper«mic surface corresponding to the
letter K, was slowly and painlessly developing itself on a selected
and protected area between the shoulder-blades. It seems doubtful
whether this performance was not altogether a new one,—whether any
precisely similar trophic changes have ever occurred spontaneously.
The support thus given to Dr. Biggs' narrative is most striking ; and
one lesson of the experiments of both physicians undoubtedly is that
science need not be the loser by a careful adherence to the rules of
ordinary humanity.
But it is the incident next to be cited which speaks the most
1 " An Experimental Study in Hypnotism," by Dr. R. von Krafft-Ebing, trans
lated by C. G. Chaddoek, M.D., New York, 1889.
344 F. W. H. Myers.
strongly for the educated character—so to say—of the intelligence
presiding over these organic suggestions.
Mdlle. lima S. was permanently anaesthetic on the right side;—and
that side was therefore, in my view, likely to be more immediately subject
to subliminal control. At any rate it appeared that when any object was
pressed on her left side, and suggested as hot, no mark followed at the
place of contact ; but a corresponding brand appeared, symmetrically
and reversed, upon the right side. For example, an initial letter, K,
was pressed by Dr. Jendrassik on her left shoulder. In a few hours
a K-like blister, "with quite sharp outlines," came on the corresponding
spot on the right side. But note that the new K (the letters are
figured in Krafft-Ebing's work) was by no means an exact reproduction
of the original one. It was of about the same size, but of a different
type ;—in fact a capital K in another person's handwriting. Just as in
Dr. Biggs' cases it was the idea of cruciformity which was induced by
suggestion, so here it was the idea of K-shape ; and insomuch as this
suggested mark corresponded to an intellectual idea, that idea under
went some idiosyncratic modification in the subject's subliminal intel
ligence, and the resultant mark, though identical in significance, was
different in contour.1 And here again we have confirmation of one
of the most curious of Dr. Biggs' phenomena,—the tardy appearance
of part of an S—an attempt at SANCTA—as the result of suggestion,
1 Conscious that the reporter of experiments such as these would even a few years
ago have been derided as the victim of vulgar imposture, Krafft-Ebing fortifies himself
with the often-quoted words of Arago : '' He who uses the word impossible outside the
sphere of pure mathematics, is at least careless. As soon as one is concerned with
the living organism, caution becomes a duty." Agreed ; but has our eminent specialist
himself consistently adhered to this prudent dictum ? " We did not," he says (p. 120),
" concern ourselves further " (after a brief trial of thealleged influence of medicaments
at a distance) "with experiments as to a possible transposition of sense,sinee until now
it has shown itself as error and deception, and is opposed to the elementary laws of
physiology. We also put clairvoyance aside, since it contradicts one of the first prin
ciples of empirical psychology, and an increase of the patient's mental functions was in
no way observed. The single experiment with a suggestion mentale for the divining of
the experimenter's thought was a fiasco, i.e., had to be given up ; for the patient
fatigued herself painfully, and was in danger of having a hystero-epileptic attack. The
supposition that in all cases where mental suggestion is said to have succeeded, a self-
deception through unintentional suggestions on the part of the experimenter played a
rote, seems to me authorised."
Is it surprising that rare and delicate phenomena are not discovered when they
are looked for—or looked away from—in such a fashion as this ? And is it surprising
that sweeping '' suppositions," supposed to be '' authorised " on the strength of a single
experiment not instantly successful, should fail to impress those whose aim it is to
apply to this special group of experiments precisely the same care and diligence which
are even now but barely rescuing Dr. Krafft-Ebing's own experiments from the
undiscriminating scorn which so lately ranked stigmata as even a more staring im
posture than telepathy? Let each climber take time at least to settle himself com
fortably on the top of his own tree, before he proclaims to mankind that in all the
forest there is no tree higher.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 345
unaided by the physical contact of any S-shaped object, but in its due
position above the suggested cross.1
No further instances are needed to show the strangeness, the pro
fundity of the influence over organic processes to which hypnotic
suggestion introduces us. It is an influence at first sight bewildering,
almost incredible. One might as well believe—one will probably next be
called upon to believe—that warts can be charmed away by saying the
Lord's Prayer backwards. The alleged powers seem equally mysterious
in their source and in their direction. How can they originally have
come into being? And who or what is it that wields them now?
Let us take these two questions separately ; and let us begin by
considering the possible source or origin of this control over intimate
organic processes. When we find any faculty existing in man or other
animals we are wont to ask ourselves from what ancestors this faculty
has been inherited—in response to what external needs it has been
maintained and developed ? Can we, then, find anything in our ancestry
which suggests to us these internal powers of modifying circulation,
quickening cell-proliferation, altering trophic processes in unknown
ways ?
Any analogies to which we can appeal are certainly vague and
remote. Yet we can point to the general fact that in man and the
higher animals an increase in the power of modifying the action of the
organism as a whole has apparently been purchased by a decrease in
the power of modifying its internal parts or constituent elements. The
self-shaping powers of the amoeba, the self-regenerating powers of the
worm or crab, die gradually away into the comparative fixity of the
organism of the higher mammalia.
But it is possible that this fixity is more apparent than real. We
may regard, the human organism as an aggregation of primitive uni
cellular organisms, which have divided their functions, and complicated
their union, in response to the demands of the environment, and along
such lines of evolution as were possible to the original germ. It is
1 As this paper passes through the press, a remarkable case of stigmatisation is
reported from America ; as yet only in a newspaper {Courier-Journal, Louisville,
December 7th, 1891), but on the authority of Dr. M. F. Coomes and of several other
physicians. According to Dr. Coomes' account, a certain Mrs. Stuckenborg seems to
have bled from spontaneously formed stigmata on every Friday since the beginning
of June. There are wounds on the hands and feet, a wound on the side (from whence
issues a watery exudation tinged with blood), a cross on the forehead, a large cross
and a heart on the chest, and the letters I. H.S. on the right shoulder. From three to
six every Friday there is profound trance, with superficial ansesthesia, but much
convulsive movement and manifestation of inward pain. If we may rely on Dr.
Coomes' account, which seems a careful one, simulation is quite out of the question.
The patient seems to desire neither money nar notoriety. She is a devout Catholic,
but does not talk about religion ; and camplains much of the pain and exhaustion duo
to the wounds and the convulsive trance.
34G F. W. H. Myers.
possible, too, that all these processes—beginning with the amoeboid
movements of the primitive cell—were accompanied by a capacity of
retaining the impress of previous excitations—a rudimentary memory
which at first constituted all the consciousness which our lowly ances
tors possessed. And further—may we not suggest 1—as evolution went
on and more complex operations were developed, while the primitive
processes of cell-change became stereotyped by long heredity, the memory
which represented these earlier changes sank to a lower psychical
depth ;—became subliminal, and could no longer be summoned by
voluntary effort into the supraliminal sequence of conscious states.
How do we know that any psychical acquisition is ever wholly lost 7
or even that a memory is the weaker because it has sunk out of
voluntary control ? It may be possible by appropriate artifices to recall
primeval memories, and to set in motion any physiological process
which could at any moment of our ancestral history have been pur-
posively, however blindly, performed. Speculations such as these,
however, can only be justified by the extreme difficulty of the problem
before us; and I am glad to quote a passage which shows that one of
the most philosophical of hypnotists has been led to a somewhat similar
hypothesis. Professor Delboeuf, as will be seen, is in no way committed
to the conception of a subliminal self ; and his conjecture may prove
the more impressive, inasmuch as it is not forced into the service of any
wider theory.
Phenomena, says Professor Delboeuf,1 such as those which Louise
Lateau presented, and experiments like those of M. Focachon (the produc
tion of a blister by mental impression) lead us to suppose that the action of
the moral on the physical may be almost if not quite equal to that of the
physical on the moral. Thence it follows that the idea of physical mischief
may produce mischief ; and on the other hand, that the idea of absence of
mischief may bring about, or at least favour, a cure. It is this deduction
which was verified by the experiment of the two burns. [It was suggested that
one of two symmetrical burns would not give pain or become inflamed. The
wound thus specified gave no pain, was not inflamed, and healed before the
other.]
How are we to explain the mechanism of this inverse action of the moral
on the physical ? If we set aside the theory of a mesmeric fluid, we are
forced to admit that the influence of the will is more extended than we
used to suppose. It must be able to act not only on the reflexes, but on the
vaso-motor system, on the unstriped muscles, on the apparatus of secretion,
&c. If a contrary opinion has till now prevailed, this is because observa
tion has been exclusively directed to the normal exercise of the will. In
ordinary life, in fact, our attention is mainly concentrated on the external
world, the principal source of our pleasures and our pains, and our will is
devoted to perfecting our means of attack and defence. The care of the
1 I quote his latest statement, taken from a tract published in 1890 : Be VEtendue
dt V Action Curative de VHypnotismc, p. 6.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 347
vegetative life has been handed over by the will to nervous mechanisms
which have learnt to regulate themselves, and which in general fulfil their
task to perfection. Thus the rapid changes of external phenomena mask
the regularity of internal phenomena, which accomplish themselves habitually
without our knowledge.
But in the hypnotic state the soul is in part drawn aside from the life of
relation, while at the same time it preserves its activity and power. It can
then, under the impulsion of the hypnotiser, employ those powers to regulate
movements which have become irregular, or to repair injuries to the
organism. In a word, hypnotism does not depress, but exalts the will, by
permitting it to concentrate itself entirely upon the point where disorder is
threatened.
Let us assume, then, for argument's sake, that the fact that the
cellular structure of some of our lowly ancestors admitted of centrally-
initiated modifications which our own structure under ordinary
circumstances no longer allows may have been an indispensable
prerequisite of this centrally-initiated, definitely-localised, blood-
determination, cell-proliferation, &c, which hypnotic suggestion can
even now call forth.
3. But is even this hypothesis wide enough to cover the facts ?
Can all the effects of hypnotic suggestion be explained by even the
completest revival of ancestral memories ? Or is there not a point
beyond which such analogies will not carry us 1 Let us consider for a
moment that third class of hypnotic achievements to which allusion
has already been made—the moral or psychological changes which,
suggestion can effect.
These changes must, of course, rest on a physiological basis ; but
that basis implies a well-developed, a human brain. The knowledge
of cortical centres which must somewhere exist to make such changes
possible can scarcely have been inherited from pre-human ancestors.
Nothing, perhaps, in the whole inquiry is of deeper interest than
the possibilities thus dawning upon us of disentangling from the
cerebral labyrinth which represents a man's tastes and character the
special brain-processes which stand for some special temptation—,
say those which represent the reaction of his organism to alcohol.
What is the hidden process that to one patient makes brandy as
nauseating as it is to a cat—that in another patient makes the morphia-
craving as impossible as it is to a rabbit 1 That strongest of all human
passions—that desire which it is death to yield to, and too often
suicide to resist—the injection of morphia itself—becomes absolutely
indifferent.1
1 See, for instance, a case of Dr. A. Voisin's, Revue de VHypnotisme, January, 1889,
p. 197, where morphinomania of several years' standing was cured in a month by
seven suggestions. The patient said that subsequent injections "ne lui donnaient
pas la sensation agreable de chalenr qu'elle eprouvait auparavant."
2 A 2
348 F. W. H. Myers.
In close connection with these reactions to drugs come certain
other moral effects. With one patient the cure of drunkenness was
accompanied by the removal of kleptomania.1 In another desperately
had case of dipsomania Dr. Voisin combined two forms of suggestion.
He rendered alcohol repugnant, and at the same time he brought back
the religious convictions and the habit of prayer which had long given
place in the poor degraded lady to a bitter and blasphemous unbelief.3
Other physical temptations, depending on the imagination more
closely than does the craving for stimulants, have been controlled by
similar suggestions. The faults of childhood may thus be overcome—
even faults such as fear, anger, indolence, which one might have
supposed to depend upon conditions too diffused and intangible to be
readily isolated or removed.3
I will not here dwell either on the practical importance, or on the
wider philosophical significance of achievements such as these. My
present point is merely this : that when we find that results of a class
which we are accustomed to use all our educative skill, or all our
self-controlling energy, to secure are effected for us by some agency as
yet obscure, we are compelled in fairness to class that agency as itself
intelligent. The power involved may be a power within our own
possession, but it can at least rank no lower than our conscious mind
and will.
And here I think that the reader, whatever hesitation he may feel
as to the explanation for which I am myself arguing, will at any rate
begin to inquire with some urgency what is the usual, the orthodox
explanation of the mode of production of effects like these ? " What
is this power," he will say, " from which no organ and no thought is
exempt or free ? which can charm away the pangs of childbirth, and
shed sleep around the surgeon's knife 1 What is this which can
summon the secretions, and retard the pulses, and arrest the breath 1
which can check the perilous habit and dispel the dolorous dream ?
which can turn longing into loathing and abhorrence into desire, and
sway with an impalpable dominance the very tides of the human heart ? "
Three main lines of explanation have been offered, singly or in
conjunction, for hypnotic phenomena. Two of these contain, I believe,
jsome measure of truth ; but they are plainly inadequate. The third is
1 Dr. B^riHon, in Revue de VHypnotism, September, 1890, p. 75.
2 Revue de VHypnotisme, September, 1887, p. G9.
3 See for instance Professor Bernheiin, in Revue de VHypnotisme. December, 1887,
p. 178 ; and Dr.Berillon, Revue de VHypnotisme, January, 1889, p. 197. Dr. de Jong, of
the Hague, reports (Revue de VHypnotisme, September, 1891) a cure of theft in a girl of
11, "voleuse d'un raffinement incroyable," and a thorough reform in a boy of 7,
"paresseux, menteur, brutal, idiot moral." "Son caractere fut tellement change'
,qu'il ne fut presque plus reconnaissable." See also Dr. Schrenck-Notzing, Revue de
VHypnotisme, July, 1890, p. 15.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 349
wider in scope, but it is in reality no explanation at all ; it is a mere
restatement of the problem in a more definite form.
1. The first explanation was that of Mesmer himself, who ascribed
the observed effects to an effluence or fluid which passed from operator
to subject. The notion of afluid is now out of date ;—although there
is, as seems to me, important evidence which makes for the existence of
an influence not discernible by the ordinary senses. It would,
however, be beside the purpose to dwell on this evidence here. For
inasmuch as experiment has plainly shown that all kinds of hypnotic
results can be obtained under circumstances where the supposed specific
influence has no chance to operate, it is plain that we must look further
for a solution of our hardest problems.
2. Many attempts have been made to express hypnotic phenomena
in terms of cerebral action as at present known to us.1 Thus, for
instance, Heidenhain, whose view was in fashion when Mr. Gurney
and I began, in 1883, to write on hypnotism in these Proceedings,
attributed the hypnotic state to " an inhibition of the action of the
ganglion cells of the cerebral cortex, induced by continued weak stimu
lation pf other nerves." To this we replied that " the theory of the
short-circuiting of the nervous current—of the response of action to
suggestion without any knowledge of the matter being passed through
consciousness at all—is only plausible in cases where the subject
mimics or obeys his hypnotiser in a quite mechanical way."2 The great
development, since that date, of hypnotic phenomena which manifestly
need some thought, some initiative on the subject's part, has made
Heidenhain's explanation still more obviously imperfect. Nor is it
needful to go here into other speculations as to the modifications of
cortical nutrition, &c, which may accompany the hypnotic trance. It
is something more and other than the mere production of trance that
we have to deal with—something more and other than the mere
phenomena of fascination, mimicry, rigidity, which are to be seen
on every itinerant mesmeriser's platform. Discussions on cerebral
circulation, on inhibition and dynamogenesis, are useful and needful on
the outskirts of the problem ; they may give precision to our conception of
the condition in which the deeper phenomena begin ; but they cannot
explain the novel powers to which those phenomena introduce us,—the
increased, the penetrating control of the brain over the organism.3
1 For a resume in English of some of these theories, see Dr. Moll's Hypnotism,
p. 203, sqq., or Dr. Lloyd Tuckey's Psycho-Therapeutics, 3rd edit., chaps, iv. and ix.
- Nineteenth Century, October, 18S3, p. 701.
3 It is probable, in my view, that inhibitory phenomena, as the most amenable to
purely physiological artifice, will usually be the first to appear in any hypnotic series.
This, I think, is actually the case ; and I suspect that some simple consideration of
this kind may have much to do with whatever truth underlies the Salpetriere scheme
of hypnotic stages evolved successively in a fixed order.
350 F. W. H. Myers.
3. And indeed among those who are most actively engaged in
exploring the range of hypnotic effects, little is heard of these various
theories as to the physiological processes involved in the induction of
trance. Trance itself becomes less and less a central phenomenon ; the
methods or artifices used to achieve desired results become more and
more simple, rapid, perfunctory. Some term is needed of almost
indefinite extensibility, to signify a power which seems so indifferent
,as to its medium of application. "Suggestion" is the chosen word;
the operator suggests the results to the subject, and the results appear
because the subject is suggestible. And this is a useful verb, a con
venient adjective. But what do they explain 1 If I call any given
occurrence a " result of suggestion," what am I really saying except
that the thing happened because somebody said that it was going to
happen 1 Our old friend, the " dormitive efficacy " of opium, at least
confined itself to one special achievement. The " suggestive efficacy "
of the hypnotiser's command is a far grander formula ; for it gives us
no hint of what it means to do, any more than of how it means
to do it.
Surely, then, as I have already said, this doctrine of suggestion can
only be regarded as a completer mode of stating the fundamental
problem ; as a protest against narrower theories founded on inadequate
experience ; whether such theories would, with the old mesmerists,
ascribe all the results to the direct inflow of the " magnetic fluid "
upon the receptive organism ; or, with Charcot, would regard hypnotism
as a nervous malady, akin to hysteria, and running through definite
stages of its own ; or, with Heidenhain, Preyer, Lehmann, &c, would
insist on the supposed cerebral mechanism of the commoner
phenomena, without taking into view the mysterious initiative, the
complex domination over the organism which hypnotic, somnambulic,
even hysterical states unite in manifesting. As against all these the
protest of Nancy is needed and effectual ; but it is a protest and
nothing more.
It is, therefore, as it seems to me, in a field almost clear of hypo
theses that I suggest my own ;—my view that a stream of consciousness
flows on within us, at a level beneath the threshold of ordinary waking
life, and that this consciousness embraces unknown powers of which
these hypnotic phenomena give us the first sample, the scattered
indications ;—powers sometimes exercised (as we shall presently see)
" spontaneously," or at the bidding of some higher will ; but sometimes
also obedient to a summons sent downwards from the supraliminal
self.
How we are to explain this obedience we shall consider presently.
But first it will occur to everyone that there is one way in which such
a conception as this can be tested at once. If the most advanced
The Subliminal Consciousness. 351
effects of suggestion are really due to an agency within the subject,
the subject ought to be able, if anyone is able, to start that agency
himself. The words of others cannot be of fundamental importance.
Self-suggestion, in short, must be the central type, and suggestion from
without must be no more than an aid to the subject's own belief.
It appears to me that actual observation does largely bear out this
view. Whichever theory of therapeutic hypnotism has been prevalent,
I believe that the main difficulty has often lain in overcoming
the patient's self-suggestion that he was not going to be cured.1 I
observe in the Zoist that the patient who begins by deriding the
" passes," and who needs hours of Dr. Elliotson's patient work to
influence him, will sometimes end by being able to throw himself into
" the sleep" without the doctor to help him. I observe that in the Sal-
petriere, the special manipulations which were at first deemed needful
to transfer the subject from catalepsy to lethargy, from lethargy to
somnambulism, are often pretermitted, and the malade passes through
the three " classical stages " at her own sole impulse. And I observe
that with the Nancy school the external suggestion often passes in
sensibly into self-suggestion, the hypnotiser's influence being less and
less obtruded, till Dr. Burot (for instance), teaches self-suggestion to
a patient, who sends herself into the trance, determining beforehand
the time for which it is to last, and the effect which it is to produce.2
Another patient is instructed to throw himself into a trance in order
to remember and divulge a criminal suggestion made to him in a
previous trance.3 Other physicians begin to note with care the effects
of involuntary* or voluntary5 self-suggestion in their own persons.
One physician, indeed—whose book, disfigured by a barbarous title,
and published in what was at that date a provincial town,6 has been
less known than it deserves—insisted more than twenty years ago upon
the needlessness of any external influence to bring most of his subjects
into a state of " artificial somnambulism." "I have found," says Dr.
•This self-suggestion, often latent, sometimes amounts to an overt fixed idea.
See a case in Revue de VHypnotismc, July, 1890, p. 10, where Professor Bernheim's cure
of a most painfill and dangerous malady was delayed for nearly three years by the
patient's obstinate refusal to submit to hypnotisation—a reluctance which the physi
cian at last overcame.
2 Revue de VHypnotisme, June, 1887.
3 Revue de VHypnotisme, November, 1S87.
4 Professor Forel, Revue de VHypnotisme, March, 1889.
5 Dr. Coste de Lagrave, Revue de VHypnotisme, December, 1889. See also a case
(Revue de l'Hypnotisme, May, 1889, p. 339), where a sufferer from toothache, angry at
the dentist's refusal to hypnotise her for a trifling operation, "sends herself off"
triumphantly in the dentist's chair and eludes his twinges in spite of him. Si natura
negat, fucit indignatio somnum.
6Statuvolism, or Artificial Somnambulism. By W. B. Fahnestock, M.D., Chicago,
1869 and 1871. See pp. 71, 203, &c
352 F. W. H. Myers.
Fahnestock, " that persons always enter this state better without any
contact, looking, passes, or anything of the kind, particularly when they
are assured that they have some competent person to take care of, and
to converse with them while in it ; and, by observing carefully the
instructions which I have given, it is possible for any person to throw
themselves into this state at pleasure, independent of anyone." Dr.
Fahnestock was one of the earliest authors to declare the efficacy of
post-hypnotic suggestions, and he insisted that these suggestions
had precisely the same efficacy when made by the self-entranced
subject to himself. " This lady could create or relieve pain in any
part of her body, or even forget her own name when she awoke, if she
made the resolution to do so while in this state."
Dr. Fahnestock's book and Mr. Hugh Wingfield's paper on "The Con
nection of Hypnotism with the Subjective Phenomena of Spiritualism,"
(S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 279,) are written from very different
standpoints ; but those who will compare the two and note the remark
able concordance between the earlier observer in his remote private
practice, and the later one experimenting upon healthy Cambridge
undergraduates, will probably incline to think that the future in
hypnotism lies with those who can best develop their patients' self-
suggestive power.1
Assuredly I do not suppose that any rationale of hypnotism which
can as yet be given .can long hold its ground without modification. We
watch a developing group of empirical processes, which may yet touch
the confines of science at many an unexpected point. But to me the
view here suggested has at least the practical merit of enabling us to
see hypnotic phenomena no longer as something isolated or exceptional,
but as falling naturally under wider laws whose bearings we are else
where beginning to discern. As indicating communication between our
supraliminal consciousness and a subliminal consciousness dowered with
powers as yet unknown, these phenomena form, as I believe, a depart
ment of that far wider realm of communications between state and
state, consciousness and consciousness, personality and personality,
within the same individual, which forms the subject of these present
papers,—the main theme to which these discussions of hypnotism are
no more than incidental.
Yet before this discussion closes there is one point more which can
not be avoided if I would escape the charge of manifest inconsistency.
I have tried to suggest the source of these subliminal powers ; but
'The so-called "Faith-Cure" is virtually an attempt to persuade patients that
they possess the power of self-suggestion. Much success is claimed for it in America ;
classes are held, and fees are paid ; but all the accounts of supposed cures which I
have seen have been so loose and vague that I can form no estimate of what has
really been done.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 353
what explanation can I give of this subliminal obedience ? " Your
theory," the critic may say, " is an attempt to prove the Dtemon of
Socrates identical with Mr. Merriman. You assume a mystic guide
with pre-terrene experience, ultra-mundane sagacity, and you set him
to drink paraffin oil by the tumblerful without being sick. It may be
grand to know how to make blisters, but the subliminal self should be
made of sterner stuff than to try that trick on himself whenever he is
told. 'Est dens in nobis; agitante calescirnus illo' ;—but it seems hard to
hold the indwelling divinity so strictly to his word, and not to let him
go till he has raised your temperature at least two degrees Centigrade.
It is well to be able to take hints, but it is not well to take all hints ;
and when I tell a man on a platform that there is a fly on the end of
his nose, is not that just the occasion when, in Clifford's phrase, the
inward Monitor ought to whisper, Bosh 1 "
Before I attempt to explain these seeming incongruities I must
remind the reader that the puzzle is in reality none of my making.
No one has any explanation to give of the obedient fulfilment of
post-hypnotic suggestions. When a man is told, say, to do several
absurd things ten days hence, and does them punctually when the
time comes round, we may, indeed, attempt to guess how it is that his
hypnotic self remembers the commands, but we have no notion why it
obeys them. To call such actions merely reflex would be a misuse of
terms ; to say that the man is suggestible is only to restate the fact.
The mystery of this unquestioning, dog-like obedience cannot be
fully cleared up until we know much more than we at present know
of our own intimate structure. Yet it seems to me that a ray of light
is shed upon it by the theories which I am now advancing.
If man's individuality be such as I conceive;—if there be various
strata of consciousness, possessed of differing powers, and communicating
with each other in obscure and imperfect ways, we are likely to come
upon many acts which are not distinctly referable to any one given
stage or stratum of the total individuality. Take the two adjacent
strata of sleep and ordinary waking life. There are faculties common
to both states ; and each state has its faculties which the other does
not share. It is as impossible for the waking man to excrete the pro
ducts of brain-waste as it is for the sleeping man to lead a charge of
horse. But under certain conditions—and I am not now assuming any
state profounder than common sleep—the sleeper will begin to exercise
in a random way some of the powers which belong properly to waking
life. He will strike out with his limbs, or spring to the floor, under
the impulsion of a disturbing dream. Meantime the waking self,—the
proper ruler of the faculties of progression and balance,—stands aside,
and for the moment these faculties obey the random commands of the
sleeping usurper. But if these faculties are too rashly drawn upon the
354 F. W. H. Myers.
sleeper will awake; and the waking self will resume its sway before
serious harm is done.
Now I would suggest that somewhat similarly, in these cases of
blind obedience to hypnotic suggestion, we see a certain knowledge, con
sciousness, memory, which are properly subject to the will which com
mands one stratum of the personality, falling temporarily into a
dreamlike compliance with impulses which reach them from a stratum
not their own. For the moment the subliminal will stands aside ;
but just as the waking will resumes its sway when the dreamer
becomes too violent, so also does the subliminal will intervene if
the obedience to hypnotic suggestion is in danger of being pushed
too far. And this will explain a peculiarity in the effect of sugges
tion which was at first thought to indicate that the obedience was
merely simulated, and which since the idea of simulation has been
dropped has remained a puzzle to many observers. I mean the fact
that it is often easier to induce a subject to commit some great
imaginary crime,—say to put arsenic in his aunt's tea,—than to
perform some trifling act of manifest inconvenance,—such as taking off
his boots in public. It is urged that somewhere within him there
must be a shrewd suspicion that the supposed arsenic really came out
of the sugar-basin. And yet this saving knowledge can hardly be
located in his waking stratum, which retains absolutely no memory
of the incident. I should suggest that a complete comprehension of
the suggested act exists in his subliminal strata, and that when grave
need arises the subliminal self will generally avoid compliance ;—not by
awakening the organism into ordinary life, but by plunging it into a
hysterical access, or into a trance so deep that the unwelcome order
loses its agitating power. Thus much as to the interrelation of supra
liminal and subliminal impulses I think that we begin to discern. But
none the less the problem of suggestion must still reach down into
insolubility ; for it does but present, in a form complex indeed, but
definite and as it were experimental, that ancient question as to the
influence—resistible or irresistible—of man's physical organism upon
his moral choice,—the issues of that world-old conflict in which " the
flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh."
We shall find, indeed, as we go on, that there are certain cases
where a subliminal will, invoked or evoked by hypnotic artifice, has
proved itself no mere " slave of the lamp," but has insisted on employ
ing its own faculties in its own way. But these instances must be
dealt with in their place,—among those " messages," or examples
of subliminal communication, whose place is above what I have termed
the psychological limit of the spectrum of ordinary consciousness. To
these we must now proceed; and we shall henceforth find ourselves
dealing for the most part with phenomena of spontaneous, not of
The Subliminal Consciousness. 355
experimental origin. Yet the fact that these higher phenomena also,—,
these phenomena of telepathy, clairvoyance, perhaps premonition,—do
sometimes show themselves under hypnotic conditions, is one of the
most encouraging which we have to remember. For nothing is more
important to us than the power of extending the bounds of experiment,
—of ourselves ascending, with steps however slow and toilsome, the
Mount at whose foot we have waited so long in helplessness till the
voice or thunder came.
There will be no cause, indeed, for surprise if, as time goes on,
man's experiments on the world without him should yield in interest
and importance to his experiments upon himself. " Inward the course
of empire takes its way";—and all man's progress has been a slow
unfolding of the capacities of the primal germ. Every sense that he
has developed, every faculty that he has won, has been but an entry
upon the fruition of what was stored already in that treasure-house of
prehistoric gold. All that he has learnt without himself has but been
a means to the comprehension of that which was within. And these
hypnotic experiments, for all their strangeness and grotesqueness, are
following in the same sure track ; their lesson also is of a concealed
dominion ; they too teach that by " self-reverence, self-knowledge,
self-control," man may become the ruler of his own spirit, and the
fashioner of his own fate.
35G Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
II.
SUPPLEMENT TO THE PAPER ON THE EVIDENCE
FOR CLAIRVOYANCE.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. (See j>- 30.)
Part I.
I append here three cases which, had they been received in time,
would have been included in the paper on the evidence for clairvoyance
printed in an earlier part of this volume.
The first two belong to the class in which a crisis in the " agent's "
life appears to be the primary cause of the supernormal perception—
the " percipient " neither seeking nor expecting any communication ;
but where, nevertheless, the actual situation of the agent is presented
to the percipient as though he were present with him. One of these is
a case of an apparition or vision of a friend at the time of his death,
and will remind the reader of Mrs. Paquet's experience, p. 32 ; the
second is a vision or dream of a brother at a moment of great danger
and excitement, and somewhat resembles Mr. Lee's vision of his
father, p. 38.
The third case is one where the activity is apparently entirely on
the percipient's part, the persons seen going through no special crisis
or excitement whatever. It recalls the experiences with "Jane,"
pp. 53-62.
(L. 890.) The writer of the following narrative, whom I will call
Mr. D., is a lawyer, and is well known to a friend of mine on whose
judgment that he is a specially good witness I thoroughly rely. He
does not wish names to be published, as it might be disliked by relatives
of the deceased gentleman.
July <tth, 1891.
The incident which I am about to describe occurred on the morning of
the 8th July, 1858. At that time and for some years previously I had been
in partnership and on very intimate terms with Mr. X. Y. As it may be
somewhat pertinent to the tale I may observe that some six or seven months
before that date I had been told by the physician attending Mr. X. Y. that
he was suffering from angina pectoris and that in all probability his death
would be very sudden. The medical man, who was our mutual friend, told me
at the same time not to allude to his danger in any conversation I might have
with him. From that period up to the 8th July, X. Y. was apparently in
his usual good health.
On the evening of the 7th I sat with him in his own room for a consider
able period talking upon various matters of business which had no reference
to him individually. He was well and cheerful. I should now describe
Supplement on the Evidence for Clafa"voyance. 357
my bedroom. It had one window, close to the head of the bed and on
the side on which I slept. There was a venetian blind not quite drawn
close. On that night, or rather on the morning of the 8th, I awoke
with a sensation of fear or distress. Day had dawned and the light fell
through the bars of the venetian blind upon the floor, and there I saw in
the light, which was quite sufficient, the vision of X. Y. He lay upon the
floor in his nightdress, his knees drawn up, his hands thrown back above
his head with the backs of his hands upon the ground. He was perfectly
white and the jaw fallen. It was X. Y. dead. I groaned somewhat loudly
and awoke my wife, who seized me by the arm and shook me, asking me
what was the matter. I was leaning upon my elbow looking down upon
the vision. I replied, " I see X. Y. dead upon the floor," and as I spoke the
vision faded away. My wife said, " Oh, you are dreaming." I remember
that I had asked myself the question, "Am I dreaming V before my wife
«hook me and while the vision was distinct. The feet of the vision were
towards the window and the face looking almost directly at me and towards
the light.
After some time I went to sleep. When I awoke, strangely enough, I
had forgotten the incident, nor did my wife allude to it.
I went to the offices, and was called away upon some pressing business as
soon as I got there. The offices were attached to the house of X. Y. I
returned about 11 o'clock, being absent about an hour. The clerk informed
me that Mr. X. Y.'s housekeeper was alarmed, as she could not, after
knocking at his door, get an answer. In an instant the vision of the early
morning came back upon me and I told the clerk at once to get a ladder
and ascend to his window, which was not very high. The clerk did so and
ascended, was apparently greatly shocked, and descended, almost falling from
the ladder. He told me that he saw X. Y. on the floor.
He got a large hammer used for breaking coals and forced the door.
I entered the room with him. On the floor lay the body of X. Y. exactly in
the attitude, position, and dress of the vision that I had seen. It was the
exact counterpart of the vision. He had apparently got up and partly drawn
up his blind when, being seized with a fit of angina, he had managed to
pour out a half glass of ammonia which stood upon his dressing table,
but had fallen back dead in the effort. His housekeeper informed me that
it was his custom to get up about daybreak and draw up his blind.
Is it possible that any intense and agonising thought of a man in his
last moments could be said to have produced any such effect as that I have
described ? His heir-at-law was a man whom he regarded with the utmost
hostility. On the other hand, he had a nephew to whom he was greatly
attached. He was a man of considerable property and would have left all
to this favoured nephew. On the day of his death, in searching amongst his
papers, a will so disposing of his property was found unexecuted.
Immediately after the discovery of the body I went home and as soon as
I saw my wife I said, " X. Y. is dead." She replied, " Oh, the dream of last
.night ; how very singular." '
I have thought the matter over for many years and have discussed the
matter with very many people, but can never arrive at any reasonable
.solution of the matter. From the moment of the incident until now I have
358 Mrs. H. Sidgwiclc.
always been certain that it was not a dream. I mean I was not unconscious
from the moment I opened my eyes and saw the vision. The distress at the
moment of awakening was indescribable. It was somewhat the feeling of
one awakened from deep sleep by a sudden shock and to a terrible sight. It
is 33 years ago, but everything is as clear in my memory as if the matter
had occurred yesterday.
Mrs. D. writes the following account of the incident :—
July 2Uh, 1891.
I have a perfect recollection of the vision or dream of which Mr. D. has
written to you, and on his waking me, and relating it, with a good deal of
distress, I said, "Oh! you are dreaming. " His reply was, "No, I am not
asleep ; look on the floor ; I see X. Y. lying there quite distinctly, just by
the streak of light." Of course I did not see it, and we did not mention it
to each other again, until his return home, when he told me what had
happened, and I then exclaimed, "Oh ! your dream."
Mr. D. writes, enclosing this letter and saying :—
Herewith you have a letter from my wife recording her remembrance of
the event. Her account (which I have just read) varies slightly from mine,
but after the lapse of 33 years this can scarcely be wondered at. I think I
must have used the words as given by her, because they seem to have been
so clearly stamped upon her memory. My impression is that the vision
faded as I spoke, but of course I might have finished speaking before it
became quite invisible.
We asked Mr. D. whether the evidence of anyone who had seen,
the body as it was found could be obtained, but he replies :—
It is so long ago that nearly all those who at the time were acquainted
with the fact are dead. The clerk who ascended the ladder, and who after
wards entered the bedroom with me, has been dead more than 20 years.
The housekeeper has long since died. Dr. , to whom I have often
talked, died 5 years ago. I have had an idea that there might be some
living who remembered the incident of the ladder and other circumstances
. but up to this time I have not discovered anyone.
An examination of the Register at Somerset House shows that Mr.
X. Y. died on July 5th, 1858, not on July 8th. The death was regis
tered on the 8th. There is therefore a slight error in Mr. D.'s account,
but not one of any consequence, since his recollection of the date of
the vision is obviously not independent of his recollection of the date
of the death. An old cash book and other documents in Mr. D.'s
possession, which he has since examined, confirm the fact that the
death was on the 5th.
July 5th, 1858, was a Monday, and Mr. D. writes as to this:—
It certainly has escaped my memory that the day of my last conversation
with him was Sunday. I often called upon him on Sunday. I sat with hint
probably an hour. It was late in the afternoon, and I recall the scene now
very distinctly, and I am sure we talked of nothing that was personal to.
himself, for the next day, after the discovery of the body, I remember to
Supplement on the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 359
have recalled our interview with the intention of finding a reason for so
singular an incident as the vision. I think I may say with equal certainty
that between the time when Dr. warned me about his malady and the
day of his death—a period of many months—I never had any conversation
as to that malady, or as to death, or in fact anything but the matters of
business of the firm and the ordinary topics of conversation.
It will be noticed in this case that the way in which the vision
presented itself was somewhat peculiar. There was a sort of economy
of hallucination—the real window and floor in the percipient's room
being made to do duty for the window and floor of the agent's room,
and the agent's figure arranged in a corresponding position with regard
to them. Nevertheless, we are justified, I think, in including the case
as one of telepathic clairvoyance, because the unusual and unlikely
position and attitude of the dead or dying man was correctly perceived.
Cases like this show that clairvoyant percipience cannot be explained
by the simple supposition of a change in the position from which the
percipient mind apprehends the external world.
In the next case there is a more complete apparent transportation
of the percipient to the scene described, due probably to the fact that
he was less fully awake, and thus less vividly conscious of his own
actual surroundings.
(L. 891.) The case comes to us through the American Branch
of the Society. The event occurred in 1873, and we have accounts
written within a few months of the time and others written recently. At
the risk of being tedious I have thought it best to give both. They throw
some light on each other, and the general accordance between them tells
very favourably for the accuracy of the narrators, though it will be
observed that one of the recent narrators introduces a degree of exact
ness of time coincidence which was never proved. This is a point in
which the tendency of memory to simplification renders it, as Mr.
Gurney has pointed out, peculiarly liable to error.
A letter to a newspaper from which the following are extracts led
to a correspondence between Mr. Harlow S. Gale—a student of philo
sophy and member of the Society—and the agent and percipient in the
case.
I was living in Wallingford at that time, raising small fruit. My
principal helper was a young man named Frederic Marks, a graduate of
Yale Scientific School. Frederic had a brother named Charles, who was
living then in central New York, near Oneida Lake. One rainy afternoon
Frederic went upstairs to his room and lay down on a lounge. An hour or
so after he came back and said he had just seen his brother Charles in
vision, he thought, as he was not conscious of having been asleep. Charles
was in a small sail-boat, and a companion with him, who sat in the stern
steering. There seemed to be a wild storm prevailing, for the sea ran high.
Charles stood in the bow grasping the mast with one arm, with the other he
360 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
had hold of the boom, which appeared to have broken loose. His danger
ous position so frightened Frederic that he awoke, or the vision departed.
Most of the family were of opinion that he had unconsciously fallen asleep
and this was only a dream.
Three or four days after this, however, Frederic received a letter from
Charles, giving an account of a peculiar adventure he had just met with on
Oneida Lake. On the morning of the day in question he and a companion
went to the lake, hired a boat, and went out for a sail. As the day was fine
they went down the lake as far as Frenchman Island, some 20 miles distant.
In the afternoon, as they were returning, a furious storm came up.
Charles was kept busy baling out the water while his companion steered.
At the height of the storm the boom gave way. Charles, seeing their
danger, sprang into the bow of the boat, and grasping the mast with one arm
and the boom with the other, managed to make it fast again. They
succeeded in keeping the craft afloat until she struck on the beach, when
they leaped out and reached shore in safety.
Oneida Lake is about 300 miles west of Wallingford, and by taking into
account the difference in time, it was found that the accident to the boat and
Frederic's vision or dream must have occurred within the same hour,
possibly the same minute. The temperaments and disposition of these
brothers are unlike, and no uncommon affinity appears to exist between
them. Frederic is now living in Santa Anna, Cal., Charles in New York
City. B. Bristol.
Short Beach.
Mr. Frederic Marks writes to Mr. Gale as follows :—
Santa Anna, Los Angeles Co., Cal., March 18th, 1889.
The incident you ask me to relate occurred fifteen or sixteen years
ago, and had passed out of mind till the reception of your letter. I was at
that time studying in New Haven, and had returned home and gone to my
room. I sat down on the side of my bed and soon dropped back on my
pillow. I do not think I fell asleep, nor did I seem fully awake. At once
I seemed to be facing a severe storm of wind and rain. As I looked into
the storm a small boat with a sail came driven almost helplessly along
through a seething, boiling mass of water. Two young men were in it, one
trying to steer and control the boat, the other apparently trying to dip out
water and work on the sail. One of the two, in a moment of greatest peril,
tried to tear down the sail from its mast. The face of my brother came
clearly into view with an expression on it that remains with me now. The
boat righted and sped on. I saw a low shore that it was driving towards.
The boat grew fainter as it neared the shore, and consciousness came back
to me, and whatever it was. whether a dream or vision, passed away. The
other person in the boat, I learned afterwards, was Arthur Bloom—a chum
of my brother's.
F. A. Marks.
P.S.—I purposely left untold that several days after the above occurrence
I learned through a journal that " Charles Marks and Arthur Bloom had a
narrow escape from drowning while out on Oneida Lake in a storm," thinking
that your correspondence with my brother would bring to light anything you
wished to know.
Supplement on the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 361
Mr. Charles Marks writes :—
5, Leonard-place, Albany, N.Y., March 31st, 1889.
Your letter of the 22nd duly received. In reply I enclose the accounts,
or letters, of myself and brother which were published in the local paper
some three months or so after the occurrence happened. I think of nothing
further to add to this now.; only in answer to your query, "whether you
knew of your brother's apparently seeing the same at the time," would say,
that to the best of my recollection I was not conscious of my brother's seeing
me. I think my thoughts and attention were solely engrossed on what I
was about, when standing on the seat and endeavouring to get down the sail,
which is the moment when my brother saw me in his vision, or hallucination,
as you have it. Knowing my brother's habits (he is an unusually strong and
healthy man) should say he was sound asleep at the time, for, with his
healthy robust constitution, when disposed he can go to sleep almost instantly
during the day time, and not unfrequently indulges in an afternoon nap.
During his residence at Wallingford, Ct., he was a student at the Yale
Scientific School (Sheffield).
C. R. Marks.
The following is the account published in the Oneida Circular,
January 19th, 1874:—
A Peril and a Vision.
Perhaps our readers will remember an account in the Circular of a terrible
storm which two of our young men encountered last fall in a voyage on
Oneida Lake. Their adventure seems to have been a matter of interest in
the other world as well as in this. At any rate a brother of one of the
voyagers, living at Wallingford, two hundred miles distant, by some mystical
illumination, saw them in the critical moment of their peril. Thinking that
the reality and the vision deserved to be brought together, we have obtained
from the brothers the following details of their experiences :—
The Peril.
On a beautiful day in October, Arthur Bloom and I sailed down the lake
in a small open boat to Frenchman's Island, where we stayed over night.
When we awoke next morning the wind was blowing hard, the clouds were
dark and threatening, and the lake was rougher than I had ever seen it before.
We supposed it impossible to sail in such a sea, and so had resolved to wait
for the wind to go down ; but during the forenoon a boat with two men
in it came to the island from the land about a mile away. As they landed
near us we asked one of them, who proved to be an old sailor, his opinion
of our boat. He thought it was rather small, but said that it appeared to be
well made, and if it were his he would go where he chose. This was enough
for us. True, we knew little or nothing about sailing, and had before us a
voyage of eighteen miles up the lake to our Joppa station. "But what of
that ? We shan't have a better chance to learn," said we. So for an experi
mental trip we sailed to a small island a quarter of a mile away. Succeeding
very well in this, we concluded to make the homeward stretch. When we
were about to leave, our landlord cordially shook hands with us and inquired
if we were good swimmers and " dingers." On our replying we thought we
were, he comfortingly said if "we kept a stiff upper-lip we might get
2 B
362 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
through all right " ; at the same time his advice was decidedly against the
venture. On leaving, which was at a quarter before three o'clock, we
imagined the wind had slackened somewhat ; so we let out the sail to
nearly its full capacity, as we wished, if possible, to get to the other end of
the lake before dark. Our positions were as follows : Arthur was in the
stern of the boat, steering and tending the sail ; I was lying in the forward
part, holding the halyards and ready for all work, such as baling, hauling
down sail, and dodging from one side to the other as the lurches of the boat
and shifting of the sail demanded.
We started from the lee side of the island where the water was com
paratively still ; but as we got out where we began to feel the full force of
the wind, we soon saw into what a scrape we had fallen. The little boat was
driving along at a fearful rate, throwing the water in sheets of foam from the
bows ; and yet we knew the waves were comparatively moderate to what we
might expect when we should reach the middle of the lake. There was no
choice as to where we should go ; we could do but one thing, that is, go
ahead directly before the wind, which was driving us towards the upper end
of the lake eighteen miles away. We were silent—each busy with his own
thoughts, preparing for the worst. To add to our apprehensions it began
raining, and the wind instead of slacking was evidently increasing. We had
gone about two miles when I was startled by a cry from Arthur to "look out
for the sail ! " as it was shifting to the other side. I lay down to let the sail
pass over me, and got on to the other side of the boat to counteract the
effect of the sail. This is told in a few words, but the actual event seemed
to take a long time. When down in the boat I heard and felt the swash of
the waves coming in, and for a moment I had the impression that Arthur
was already in the water and that it would soon be my turn. But on look
ing round I saw he was still in his place, and also that we had shipped con
siderable water. The next thing was to take in sail, and that quickly. I
let go the halyards, but the sail would not come down, as it was held by a
miserable toggle at the top. In the excitement of the moment I jumped
upon the seat at the imminent risk of capsizing the boat, and pulled down
the sail as far as it would go, which left it about six feet high. This was
still dangerous, as the slack of the sail was distended, looking like a huge
bag. This was remedied by cutting away the rings in the lower part of the
sail and winding up the lower yard. After this, with considerable baling,
we got along tolerably well. We expressed our confidence in God, and a
desire to be reconciled to His will, and to learn the lesson which might be
intended for us. Gradually our spirits rose, and we got considerable enjoy
ment from the rest of the voyage, especially the last five or six miles, when
we were passing swiftly by the houses and small towns on the beautiful
northern shore. There was also to me a comical side to the adventure.
Arthur, who was steering with a rude paddle, could not stir from his position
without very great risk ; while every few minutes the water would come
pouring in on his back, filling his pantaloons, and subduing any undue exulta
tion. Our landing was quite thrilling. It was growing very dark when we
turned in for the shore, where we supposed our home to be. We were soon
rushing through a sea of foam ; then came a heavy lurch, followed by a
violent shock, which nearly sent us out of the boat. Then came a second
Supplement on the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 363
shock, when we jumped into the water and soon dragged our boat out of the
way of the waves. We started for Joppa, which was about a mile from our
landing, with thankful hearts that we had escaped a terrible death, with no
damage worse than wet clothing. It was a quarter to six when we landed ;
so that it took us just three hours to come up the lake, the same distance
that it took us full seven hours m going down the day before.
Charles R. Marks.
The Vision.
W. C, January Uth, 1874.
Dear H.,—You wish the simple facts of my dream. They are these :—
One afternoon in October, being tired, I lay down to rest. I soon fell
asle'ep ; at least I have no reason for thinking that I did not sleep. I was
not on the bed more than a few minutes. During this time I dreamed of
being near a large body of water. I knew it to be the Oneida Lake. The
wind was blowing violently, and the waves ran exceedingly high. While
standing near the lake I felt under a strong disposition to sleep. My eyes
were heavy, they would close themselves. It was with an exertion that I
kept them open. I was like a man under nightmare ; struggling to rouse
myself, yet only partially successful. Darkness was settling over me.
Suddenly, when the wind was blowing a gale and the waves seemed rolling
one over the other, a small sail-boat broke upon my sight, driven wildly
before the storm. For the moment it seemed as if it would be lost. It
appeared to be at the mercy of the waves, for they rose high above its sides
and almost concealed it at times. It was manned by two persons—one in the
after part ; the other trying to pull down the sail ! Their situation was
critical. At this moment a feeling of horror shot through me as I recognised
in the man whose full length I saw standing near the mast and struggling
with the sail my brother Charles ! The man in the stern I did not recognise.
In the time of the greatest peril, something—I can scarcely tell what— I
dare not call it an apparition—gave me the impression that good beings were
interested and watchful over the voyagers.
The shock I received on seeing my brother did not allow me to sleep long.
On awaking I was troubled, and thought I would immediately write to
Charles, entreating him to be careful. Afterwards, thinking it merely a
dream, I turned my attention from writing, but I mentioned to Frank
Smith that I had a troubled dream about Charles. After this experience,
perhaps three or four days, a letter was received from Mrs. Mallory giving
an account of Charles' condition when he returned to the Joppa station.1
This letter recalled the dream ; and the coincidence of time and circum
stances made a deep impression on me, though I was unable then, and am
now, to accurately identify the time of my vision with the time of actual
peril described in Mrs. Mallory's letter. (The letter, however, came so soon
as to make it certain that the peril and the vision were nearly, if not
exactly, simidtauemis. )
On my Late visit to O. O, I narrated my dream to Charles, and so true
was it to the facts that we were both convinced there was some spiritual
telegraphy that made me see his danger. Perhaps at that awful moment
when he struggled with the sail he thought of me and his mother at
1 Published in the Circular, October 27th, p. 349.
2 B 2
Mrs. H. Sidgwiclc.
Wallingford, and on that thought the angels carried to me in my half-sleep
a picture of his situation, with an intimation of their care over him. Who
can suggest a hetter philosophy for the facts 1
Frederic A. Marks.
The paragraph and letter published in the Oneida Circular for
October 27th, 1873, need not be given here. They contain a brief
account of the adventure agreeing with the above.
Mr. B. Bristol wrote to Mr. Hodgson on February 24th, 1890,
again giving an account of the vision. He says: "A summer shower
had driven us to the house. Frederic went upstairs, &c. . . . The
dream or vision left him, and he came down not certain that he had
been asleep. In the evening of the same day, when the family were:
all together, the subject was discussed at some length. The general
opinion was that it was merely a dream." I quote this to show that.
Mr. Bristol believes the vision to have been discussed before the news
of the adventure was received.
It is worth considering whether " the summer shower "—violent
enough according to Mr. Bristol's recollection to drive the party into
the house—may have resembled the storm sufficiently to produce a
community of ideas between the brothers, facilitating the telepathic
communication.
Mr. Bristol adds about the brothers : " Both are men of high
character, and their veracity will be unquestioned where they are
known."
I proceed to the third and more definitely clairvoyant case.
(M. 24.) We have received the following from our Corresponding
Member, Dr. Alfred Backman, of Kalmar, who has kept the original
account of the brothers Suhr, sending us a translation.
In answer to a letter asking Mr. A. Suhr, photographer at Ystad, in
Sweden, whether he could remember anything about a hypnotic experiment
made by Mr. Hansen many years ago, in the presence of the brothers Suhr,
Dr. Backman received the following account :—
"It was in the year 1867 that we, the undersigned brothers, were settled
as photographers at Odense [in Denmark], and very often visited our common
friend, the hypnotist, Mr. Carl Hansen, who was living near us. A lawyer,
Mr. Balle, who is now an advocate in Copenhagen, and whom we met daily,
was strongly influenced hypnotically by Hansen, and wished one evening to
be put into so deep a hypnotic sleep as to become clairvoyant.
"The first time it happened was on the 16th of January, at 9.30 in the
evening, as we can see from some notes taken at the time, and which wo still
possess. Mr. Hansen made Mr. Balle sit down in a chair and lay his head
back, and by steadily making passes he put him into a very deep sleep. Mr.
Hansen showed that when he opened the eyelids one could only see the
white of the eye, declaring the pupils to be turned inwards. Mr. Hansen
took his hand and asked him if he could hear what he said, and having
repeated the question several times, got the answer ' Yes,' but with a hollow
Supplement on the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 3(65
and toneless voice. Mr. Hansen now tried whether he could see with his
forehead, holding a small bottle over his head and asking if he could see
what it was. Mr. Hansen having breathed on his forehead and several
times repeated the question, Mr. Balle said correctly that it was a little bottle.
He then took other objects, which Mr. Balle also saw. Hansen now believing
Balle to be clairvoyant made him go mentally to other places to see and tell
him what he saw. He put different questions to him about persons and
things, which Balle answered correctly and in accordance with the fact, but
as it would take too long to tell them all, and as they were of minor impor
tance, we will confine ourselves to some examples that seem to us to be
specially important, and for the truth and trustworthiness of which we are
answerable.
"I. We had a relative, Officer of Woods and Forests, Carl Bloch, who lived
about two miles [about 12 English miles.—Backmatt] from Odense, at the
country house Langesoe, but unknown to both Hansen and Balle ; we also
knew that neither of them had ever visited our relative. We wished then
to know how he and his wife were, and asked Hansen to make Balle go to
them and see. The questions and answers ran as follows :—
" Hansen : ' Go to the place of which I am now thinking and try to find
the person of whom I am thinking but whom I have never seen. '
"Balle: 'Now I am there. A little man, with moustaches, is sitting in a
room and is reading in the Dagbladet about the naval captain Muscholdt and
Bothe ; he is reading aloud ; now he speaks ; he says, " It is ridiculous that
the Government should not have given Rothe the same—such is the reac
tionary business. " There is also a lady present who is sewing, and a little
boy. Now he falls, but that did not hurt him—he stands up again now. The
lady says, " It is astonishing that Valdemar has not let us hear anything of
himself ! What was it that he meant to bring us ? " He answers, "I don't
know, but he will explain when he comes again. " '
'' Hansen : ' What is the room like ? ' Balle : ' Very nice. Four arm
chairs or "Pouffes." A drawing, which I know, is hanging over the sofa—
a dog.1
"Hansen: 'Are there other pictures ? ' Balle : ' Yes, a hunting piece, a
stag.' Hansen : 'Is there nothing else remarkable?' Balle: 'Oh, yes, there
is no mirror.' Hansen: 'What colour are the walls?' Balle: ' They are red.'
Hansen: 'Are they good people?' Balle: 'Yes, very good, excellent people.'
' ' We may remark that the description of the persons and the room was
completely correct."
So far, as we do not know that the actual conversation, &c, at
Langesoe was correctly described, we cannot say that Mr. Balle's
statements involved knowledge not in the mind of any person present.
But in the next experiment we get beyond this.
"II. Our mother lived at that time at Roeskilde, in Seeland. We
asked Hansen to cause Balle to visit her. It was late in the evening, and
after some hesitation on Mr. Balle's part he made the journey in a few
1 The undersigned Valdemar Bloch Suhr had in reality sketched the dog of the
wood-officer Bloch, and given the drawing to him. Balle had really seen me work
ing at the drawing, and my relative had hung it over his sofa in a frame.
366 Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
minutes. He found our mother sick and in bed, but with a slight cold only,
which would pass off in a short time. We did not believe this to be true,
and Hansen asked Balle to read on the corner of the house the name of the
street. Balle said it was too dark to read, but Hansen insisted and he read
' Skomagerstraede.' We believed this to be quite wrong, for we knew that
our mother lived in quite a different street. After several days we got a letter
from our mother, saying that she had been sick and had removed to
Skomagerstraede.
"III. The undersigned, V. B. Suhr's wife, then Miss Clara Vilhelmine
Christensen, was witness to a third experiment.
" My wife lived at this time at Stora Goothaab, a large farm which lies
on the Goothaab road, near Copenhagen, but she had gone to Odense to see
a relative and Mr. Hansen and his wife, who, as already stated, were at that
time settled at Odense. The seance took place in the before-mentioned
room.
" My wife wished to know how things were at home, at Stora Goothaab, in
the house of the telegraphic engineer, Schjotz, with whose family she lived,
and she therefore asked Mr. Hansen to ask Mr. Balle about it. She knew
very well that neither Mr. Hansen nor Mr. Balle had ever been at the place
in question. Mr. Hansen now took a letter written by my wife and put
it on the forehead of the hypnotised Mr. Balle, saying : ' Try to find the
place where the writer of this letter lives.' Balle: 'It is, of course, not
necessary, she is here in the room.' Mr. Hansen now insisted strongly that
Mr. Balle must find the house, and after some reluctance, first because he
must cross the water (the Hora Bait), and then because, as he said, when he
reached the Goothaab road, ' It is so dark here.' ' Lighten up your spirit
and see,' said Hansen, and Balle went on. 'Now I am here,' he said a
little later. Hansen: 'What do you see?' Balle: 'It is like a castle.'
H. : ' Go in to the house. ' B. : ' Here are broad stairs. ' H. : ' All right ! Now
you must go into the lady's room.' B. : ' There is nobody there.' H. : 'Is
there no living creature 1 ' B. : ' Oh yes ! a canary bird in a cage. ' H. :
' Where is it standing V B. : Upon a chest of drawers.' My wife remarked
that this was not right, because the cage always stood in the window, but
Balle insisted upon it.
"There were four children in the family, and my wife wished to know how
it fared with them. H. : ' Go in to the family and see how the children are. '
B.: ' Here are two—in bed. ' H. : ' You must find more. ' Balle searched much
to find the others ; at last he exclaimed : ' Here is one more ! Oh no, it is a
doll, ' he said indignantly, and moved his hand as though ho were throwing
something away. In spite of Mr. Hansen's insistence, Mr. Balle continued
to be unable to find more than two children. But he found a lady in bed and
very ill, nearly dying. My wife knew this to be correct. It was a Miss
Marie Kruse, a sister of Mrs. Schjotz. She was very ill when my wife left
Copenhagen, and the doctor did not think she could live as she was con
sumptive in the highest degree. H. : ' How is it with Miss Kruse 1 '
B. : ' She is very ill. ' H. : ' Will she die or recover ? ' B. : ' She will recover. '
" When my wife went back to Stora Goothaab she said nothing about
what had occurred, but asked Miss Caroline Kruse, another sister of Mrs.
Schjotz, if her canary bird had been well while she was away, and if he
Supplement on the Evidence, for Clairvoyance. 367
always stood in the window. Miss Kruse answered that he had always been in
the same place in the window except at night ; then she had put him on the
chest of drawers to save him from the cold. And about the children she
said that two of them, just on the days in question, had been visiting their
father's brother, the tobacco manufacturer Schjotz, Kjobmagergade-street,
Copenhagen. The sick lady is still alive, and has been for many years
manager in a large and well thought-of school for girls at Fredriksbergs
Alle, near Copenhagen.
"Signed in witness of the truth of the above,
"Anton Vilhelm Suhr, Photographer,
" Ystad [Sweden]. August 30th, 1891.
"Valdemar Bloch Suhr, Dramatic Artist and Painter."
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Anton Suhr tells me on a postcard, dated
October 9th, 1891: "The notes that you have got are an abridgment of
the protocol (my brother has it in his possession, and he wrote it at the clair-,
voyant experiments) and are in just the same words."
Alfred Backman.
We first heard of this case of clairvoyance from Mr. Hansen, who
kindly wrote out for us the following account of his own recollection
of the circumstance, and referred us to Mr. Anton Suhr for confirma
tion. It was some time before we had the opportunity of communi
cating with Mr. Suhr in Swedish.
May 13th, 1889.
In conversation with Dr. A. T. Myers I happened to mention an instance
of what I consider independent clairvoyance. Dv. Myers then requested
me to put it down in writing. I now proceed to do so and shall endeavour
to record the facts as concisely as I can, believing that my memory serves me
correctly ; should I, however, make any mistakes, then these may be rectified
by two gentlemen who were present at the occurrence and whose names I
shall give.
In the year 1867 I was living in Odense, Denmark, and often received
visits from two young gentlemen established in that town as photographers ;
they are brothers, the elder one named Valdemar Bloch Suhr, the younger
one Anton Suhr, sons of a famous landscape gardener, and nephews of the
then favourite preacher, the Rev. Bloch Suhr, at Helliggeistes Church,
Copenhagen. Besides these, I often saw, as a visitor in my house, a
young man named Valdemar Balle, who is now established as a lawyer in
Copenhagen.
On several occasions I had hypnotised Mr. Balle but only tried to let him
fall into the hypnotic state characterised by lethargy and anaesthesia, or else
to induce illusions or hallucinations, in fact the experiments had been made
more for the entertainment of my two friends, the brothers Suhr, than for
any purpose of investigation. Mr. Balle, however, who at that time was
studying and working very hard, felt himself very much refreshed and
strengthened after each magnetic sleep, and would sometimes ask me to put
him to sleep for a short time, after which he generally felt very lively and
took a very active part in the conversation. On two or three such occasions
he gave, during his sleep, indications of clairvoyance, the circumstances,
368 Mrs. H. Sidgtvick.
however, have been forgotten by me ; may be that my friend, Bloch Suhr, who
has an excellent memory, can remember them. The following occurrence,
however, stands clear in my memory.
One evening, when I had hypnotised Mr. Balle, and he was fast asleep in
an easy-chair, the elder of the brothers Suhr requested me to try if Balle
mentally could travel to Roskilde, a town in Seeland, distant about 75 or 80
English miles, 16 of which are sea, and there see if Suhr's mother was well.
I consented to try, and told Balle to go to Roskilde. He at first was unwilling
to do so ; afterwards he said, " I am in Nyborg " (a town 16 miles distant)
" but I do not like to cross the water, it is so dark." I told him not to mind
but to go on to Roskilde. Shortly after he said, " I am in Roskilde."
" Well then, find Mrs. Suhr," was my reply. The moment after he said that
he was standing outside Mrs. Suhr's abode. I asked him, in order to verify
his correctness, "Where does she live ? " He gave me the name of the street,
and, if I remember rightly, said it was the corner house.
As I did not know Mrs. Suhr nor her address, I looked round at Mr.
Suhr, my face expressing the question, "Is it correct ? " but Suhr shook his
head and made such gestures as told me that the clairvoyant was mistaken.
I then said to Balle that he was mistaken and should look again. He, how
ever, in a rather indignant tone of voice, told me he was not mistaken, say
ing, "What ! cannot I read ? There, the name of the street is written, you can
see it yourself." I believe the name of the street was. Skomagerstrcede, but
am not sure of this. I remember, however, that the two brothers Suhr both
told me it was the wrong street. As the clairvoyant, however, seemed
offended at my trying to correct him, I made no more remark to him about
what we thought his mistake, but requested him to enter the house and see
if Mrs. Suhr was well. He at first seemed unwilling, and made the excuse
that the door was shut. I told him not to mind, but to go in all the same.
"I am in," was his next reply, and then I asked him, How is Mrs. Suhr?
" She is in bed, not quite well; the illness, however, is of no moment; it is
only a slight cold. She is thinking of Valdemar; she will write him a letter,
and there are three things she will write about." He then mentioned three
things relating to business. What they were I have forgotten. I then woke
him up, the brothers Suhr remarking that the information he had given was of
no value as there was a decided mistake in it, namely, with regard to then-
mother's address, as she did not live where Balle had said. I believe it
was two days after when Valdemar Suhr received a letter from his mother,
,which proved that Mr. Balle had been in the right. Mrs. Suhr had, namely,
removed to the house mentioned by Balle during the hypnotic state without
her sons having any idea that she was going to do so. She had really had a
slight cold, and she did write to her son about the three matters mentioned
by Balle, and, as I remember being told, nearly in the same words he had
used.
Now, I must mention that neither Mr. Balle nor I knew anything of Mrs.
Suhr. We had never seen her ; neither of us had ever been in the town
Roskilde, nor did we know the names of the streets there ; therefore, it
seems to me that there could be no telepathy in this case, as the clairvoyant
could not read an address we had no idea about, nor would it be likely to
come into his brain from any unconscious memory. In fact, I have looked at
Supplement on the Evidence for Clairvoyance. 369
the case from all the points of view that I can, and it seems to me that the
finding of the town and the address are pure clairvoyance, whereas from the
moment the clairvoyant entered the room of Mrs. Suhr, he seems to have
become a thought-reader.
Carl Hansen, Hypnotiseur.
We have in this case three definite facts mentioned by the clair
voyant which were unknown to all present and not, so far as we can
see, likely to be guessed ;—namely, the street in which Mrs. Suhr lived,
the position of the canary, and the absence of the children. And the
last one, as described, looks more like independent clairvoyance than
any kind of thought-reading, because had Mr. Balle obtained his
information from the mind of any person at Stora Goothaab one would
suppose that he would at once have said, "The other children are away,"
instead of mentally searching the house and not finding them.
370 F. W. H. Myers.
III.
NOTE ON A VISIT TO KALMAR.
By P. W. H. Myers.
The account given in Part XIX. of Dr. Backman's experiments
with several clairvoyantes will no doubt have awakened the interest
and curiosity of our readers. Dr. Backman, it will be remembered,
began by disclaiming scientific precision in his earlier and more striking
experiments, which were made before the full importance of the inquiry
was realised. He readily complied, however, with our request that he
would continue his researches as soon as practicable, and he was kind
enough to offer a welcome to any of us who might care personally to
witness further trials of the same kind. In response to this invitation,
a party, consisting of Professor Richet, M. Houdaille, Dr. A. T. Myers,
and myself disembarked atKalmar on August 12th.1
We were most cordially received, and were allowed to witness and
to conduct experiments with all the subjects at the time attainable.
Among these, however, Alma Radberg was the only one whom we
were able to see sufficiently often to overcome the shyness and timidity
which stood in the way of a fair trial in the presence of strangers.
Even with Alma there was much difficulty of this kind ; and we do
not consider that our own series of experiments was long enough to
justify an independent conclusion ;—although, as will be seen, we had
two successes decidedly corroborative of Dr. Backman's results. Per
haps the most important outcome of our visit was the conviction which
we all of us gained as to the absolute candour and disinterested desire
for truth with which Dr. Backman's experiments are conducted, and
the simplicity and good faith of the subjects whom he employs.
I will now recount two experiments which we class as at least
partial successes. In the first of them the conditions were slightly
defective ; in the second they were, I think, satisfactory.
Experiment I. August 15th.—Alma lightly hypnotised by Dr.
Backman. Professor Richet gives her a letter written in French, which
she does not know, and so folded as to be unreadable. This she holds
in one hand, with shut eyes.
" This letter," she says, " comes from a long way off ; from a man.
of middle age, dark, but not extremely so ; high forehead, curved nose,
1 This paper has been revised by Professor Richet and Dr. A. T. Myers.
Note on a Visit to Kalmar. 371
a teacher ; hair very short, small beard ; moustache and imperial,
whiskers small or none. He rests one hand on his hip, and seems to
stoop slightly to one side.
" The letter asks for information ; something about time ; when
something will happen or be done ; it is a rendezvous ; several persons
are to meet ; one of them is tall and very dark ; the meeting is about
a journey ; the tall dark man is M. Richet, or is like him ; they are to
meet in a town and to have a conference."
Alma was then awakened ; but (as usual with Dr. Backman's sub
jects) she remembered her trance-sensations, and was able to add
further details.
" The writer has marked features ; a noticeable face ; aged about
45 or 50, name of three syllables, beginning with R. or B. His hair
is dark brown with some grey in it."
Now this letter was in fact from Professor Nicolas G., of Moscow,
asking Professor Richet when he would be in Moscow, and inviting
him and myself to meet him in Moscow and make a trip to his
country-seat and other places ;—the primary object of the meeting
being a kind of " conference." The description of Professor G. is also
practically correct.
The account given, therefore, was satisfactory on almost all points
except the name of the writer.
This experiment was tried on the spur of the moment, when Alma
failed in reading cards placed back upwards upon her lap ; and the con
ditions were defective in the following ways :—(1) "I had already,"
says M. Richet, " half an hour before, handed the letter to Mr. Myers
to read, and he had replied 'good.' Alma, who was asleep at the time,
had not remarked this, and was absolutely ignorant that the letter
handed to her was the same." (2) M. Richet, who knew the contents
of the letter, remained in the room, although he took care to say
nothing and to give no indication. He sat with his back turned, and
his face to the wall. (3) I, who took notes, knew the contents of the
letter ; but I checked my notes by those of Dr. Myers, who did not
know the contents.
Experiment II.—It is easy to avoid these possibilities of unconscious
suggestion; and on August 17th, after more failures with cards, we tried
the impressions derived from letters under more careful conditions.
M. Richet handed to me a letter unknown to me, and left the room. I
gave it to Alma to hold, and took down notes of what she said (as
translated from Swedish into French by Dr. Backman), which notes I
completed before I learnt anything of the letter. There was thus no
possibility of unconscious suggestion.
Alma's words, then, were as follows :—
372 F. W. H. Myers.
" The writer expresses a desire. Wishes to arrive at something—to
see something ; something which is to be accomplished in a town—a
thing which they are to have at that place. A desire to see something,
or to travel. A request or command to do something ; something
about a visit. It concerns something of metal ; the metal object can
be open and shut again (movement with hands). Part of the metal is
polished and part is black. It is something which one uses in travel
ling—about half a yard long and six inches broad (signs) ; oblong, like
a screen (^cran). It is a command rather than a wish,—a question of
time and opportunity. The writer asks about something which he has
received or sent. It is a person who wishes to meet another. At the
end of the letter he speaks of the moment of this meeting. It is a
thing which will be decided when the persons meet ;—something scien
tific which will be settled."
The letter related to a flying-machine which Professor Richet is
engaged in constructing with the aid of the friend who writes. I sub
join a translation :—
"Paris, April Uth, 1891.
" My dear Friend,—I had left Havre when your letter arrived
there, but have now received it in Paris. As I telegraphed to you, we
had satisfactory weather on Wednesday evening and on Thursday till
10 a.m. We tried the small machine, which behaved much better than
its still smaller brothers ; but, nevertheless, it always turned over on
the same side. This seems to result from the current of air on the
beach. It made nearly the same journey as our large machine last
year, and fell in about the same spot. The working of the blades was
absolutely perfect."
A criticism on a rival flying-machine concludes the letter. There
is no actual appointment of a meeting ; but Professor Richet says that
the need of a meeting between himself and his friend is clearly im
plied. The machine is in fact roughly oblong and screw-shaped, and
partly metallic ; but the great model is larger than described by Alma ;
nor do the wings open and shut.
On the whole, however, and considering the absolute unexpected
ness of the subject-matter to Alma, the coincidences are striking
enough.
We tried Alma with two other letters, but her accounts of these
were vague and incorrect.
Experiments of this kind are no doubt less definite and cogent than
experiments in the naming of cards, numbers, names,—or something
which admits of a definite calculation of chances. If a clairvoyante
could correctly name an unseen card six times running, the possibility of
clairvoyance would be quickly settled. But we know too little of the
Notes on a Visit to Kalmar. 373
nature of this obscure power to allow us to demand any one feat as the
condition of our belief. It is possible that supernormal knowledge
may reach the percipient less readily when of a purely impersonal kind
(as of a card in an envelope) than when it has some vivid connection
with other minds, as with a letter from a person at a distance. We
are bound to try all methods, trusting to care and repetition to over
come the evidential weaknesses to which each method is liable.
One more word may be added as to the temper of mind in which
these inquiries should be carried on. Where proper conditions have
been agreed upon beforehand, and are strictly observed, it may very
likely be, as Dr. Backman thinks, a positive advantage that the
operator should vividly believe that the rarer phenomena are likely to
appear. We do not yet know the whole power of suggestion ; and
much as the Salpetriere subjects are unconsciously trained into a cer
tain sequence of physical conditions rarely observed elsewhere, so also
may it be possible for the operator's expectation to stimulate the
subject's hypnotic self into the exercise of a lucidity which might else
have remained dormant.
The fact that these higher phenomena so seldom appear may thus be
largely due to the fact that they are so little believed in, and so seldom
looked for. In this, as in so many branches of our research, the one
thing needful is to substitute careful, widespread, persistent experi
ment for the loose talk, whether of credulity or of negation, which is.
already to hand in quite sufficient quantity.
To Dr. Backman the thanks of serious students are already due ;—
and will be due in still larger measure if his engagements should allow
him to carry on systematically the series of experiments so promisingly
begun.
374 Oliver J. Lodge.
IV.
SOME RECENT THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE EXPERIMENTS.
By Oliver J. Lodge.
While staying for a fortnight this autumn in the house of Herr
von Lyro, at Portschach am See, Carinthia, I found that his two adult
daughters were adepts in the so-called " willing-game," and were
accustomed to entertain their friends by the speed and certainty with
which they could perform actions decided on by the company ; the
operator being led either by one or by two others, and preferring to be
led by someone to whom she was accustomed. Another lady staying
in the house was said to be able to do things equally well, but not
without nervous prostration.
On the evening when I witnessed the occurrences nothing done
could be regarded as conclusive against muscle-reading, though the
speed and accuracy with which the willed action was performed exceeded
any muscle-reading that I had previously seen, and left me little doubt
but that there was some genuine thought-transference power.
Accordingly I obtained permission to experiment in a more satis
factory manner, and on several occasions tested the power of the two
sisters, using one as agent and the other as percipient alternately. Once
or twice a stranger was asked to act as agent, but without success.
The operations were conducted in an ordinary simple manner.
One of the sisters was placed behind a drawing board, erected by me
on a temporary sort of easel, while the other sat in front of the same
board; and the objects or drawings to be guessed were placed on a ledge
in front of it, in full view of the one and completely hidden from the
other.
Naturally I attended to the absence of mirrors and all such obvious
physical complications. The percipient preferred to be blindfolded, but
no precaution was taken with reference to this blindfolding. Agent
and percipient were within reach of one another, and usually held each
other's hands across a small table. The kind and amount of contact
was under control, and was sometimes broken altogether, as is sub
sequently related.
The ladies were interested in the subject, and were perfectly willing
to try any change of conditions that I suggested, and my hope was
gradually to secure the phenomenon without contact of any kind, as I
had done in a previous case (Vol. II., p. 189); but unfortunately in the
Some Recent Thought-Transference Experiments, 375
present instance contact seemed essential to the transfer. Very slight
contact was sufficient, for instance through the backs of the knuckles;
but directly the hands were separated, even though but a quarter of an
inch, the phenomena ceased, to reappear again directly contact was
established. I tried whether I could bridge over the gap effectively
with my own, or another lady's, hand; but that did not do. I also once
tried both sisters blindfolded, and holding each other by one hand, while
two other persons completed the chain and tried to act as agents.
After a time the sisters were asked to draw, simultaneously and indepen.
dently, what they had "seen"; but though the two drawings were close
imitations of each other, they bore no likeness to the object on which
the agents had been gazing. (See Plates at the end of this paper;
Plate I., R. 1 (a) and R. 1 (6).) My impression, therefore, is that
there is some kind of close sympathetic connexion between the sisters,
so that an idea may, as it were, reverberate between their minds when
their hands touch, but that they are only faintly, if at all, susceptible
to the influence of outside persons.
Whether the importance of contact in this case depends upon the
fact that it is the condition to which they have always been accus
tomed, or whether it is a really effective aid, I am not sure. I have
explained to them the desirability of securing the results without
contact, if possible, and it may happen that with some practice they
will find themselves able to dispense with it. The time at our joint
disposal was limited, and I was not able to do more than set things in
train for more striking success later, provided they try experiments
occasionally and do not get tired of them.
So far as my own observation went, it was interesting and new to
me to see how clearly the effect seemed to depend on contact, and how
abruptly it ceased when contact was broken. While guessing through
a pack of cards, for instance, rapidly and continuously, I sometimes
allowed contact and sometimes stopped it ; and the guesses changed,
from frequently correct to quite wild, directly the knuckles or finger
tips, or any part of the skin of the two hands, ceased to touch. It was
almost like breaking an electric circuit. At the same time, partial
contact seemed less effective than a thorough hand grasp.
It is perfectly obvious how strongly this dependence on contact
suggests the idea of a code ; and I have to admit at once that this flaw
prevents this series of observations from having any value as a test
ease, or as establishing de novo the existence of the genuine power. My
paper only appeals to those who, on other grounds, have accepted the
general possibility of thought-transference, and who, therefore, need not
feel unduly strained when asked to credit my assertion that unfair
practices were extremely unlikely; and that, apart from this moral con
viction, there was a sufficient amount of internal evidence derived from
376 Oliver J. Lodge.
the facts themselves to satisfy me that no code was used. The
internal evidence of which I am thinking was : (1) the occasionally
successful reproduction of nameless drawings ; (2) the occasional failure
to get any clue to an object or drawing with a perfectly simple and
easily telegraphed name ; (3) the speed with which the guesses were
often made.
I wish, however, distinctly to say that none of the evidence which.
I can offer against a prearranged code is scientifically and impersonally
conclusive, nor could it be accepted as of sufficient weight by a sceptic on
the whole subject. It is only because, with full opportunity of forming
a judgment, and in the light of my former experience, I am myself
satisfied that what I observed was an instance of genuine sympathetic-
or syntonic communication, and because such cases seem at the present
time to be rather rare, that I make this brief report on the circum
stances.
I detected no well-marked difference between the powers of the two
sisters, and it will be understood that one of them was acting as agent
and the other as percipient in each case. Sometimes the parents of the
girls were present, but often only one or two friends of my own, who
were good enough to invite the young ladies to their sitting-room for
the purpose of experiment ; though such experiments are, when
carefully performed, confessedly rather tedious and dull.
In the early willing-game experiments, such things were done as
taking a particular ring from one person's hand and putting it on
another's ; selecting a definite piece of music from a pile, taking it to
the piano, and beginning to play it. The last item (the beginning to
play) I did not happen to witness, but I was told of it by several
persons as more than could be accounted for by muscle-reading. A
sceptic, however, could of course object that imperfect bandaging would
easily enable a title to be read.
One of the things I suggested was aimed at excluding the operation
of unconscious muscular guidance as far as possible, and it consisted in
desiring that the lady while standing in the middle of the room should
kick off her shoes without touching them and begin to sing a specified
song. Success, however, was only partial. After one or two attempts
to wander about the room as usual, she did shuffle a shoe off, but though
she did not actually touch her feet she stooped so that the held hand
came very near them. She then stood some little time uncertain what
to do next, and at last broke silence by saying " Shall I sing 1 "
The first attempt at the more careful experiments was not at all
successful, but novelty of conditions may fairly be held responsible for
that. On the second and subsequent evenings . success was much more
frequent : on the whole, I think, more frequent than failure. I proceed
to give a fairly complete account of the whole series.
Some Recent Thought-Transference Experiments. 377
The first object was a teapot ; but there was no result.
The first drawing was the outline of a box with a flag at one comer ;
but that produced no impression.
Next, for simplicity, I explained that the object this time was a
letter (Buchstabe), on which it was correctly guessed E. Another letter,
M, was given quite wrong. A childish back-view outline of a cat was
given oval like an egg ; some other things were unperceived.
On the second evening I began by saying that the object was a
colour ; on which red was instantly and correctly stated.
A blue object which followed was guessed wrong.
An outline figure of a horse was correctly named. So was the
letter B. I then drew a square with a diagonal cross in it and a round
ring or spot just above the cross, the whole looking something like the
back of an envelope. After a certain interval of silence (perhaps two
minutes) the lady said she was ready to draw what she had "seen/' and
drew the thing almost exactly, except that the dot was put right on
the centre of the cross instead of above it, and a superfluous faint
vertical stroke was added. (See Plate I., O. 2 and R. 2.) Its possible
resemblance to an envelope was not detected, nor did the reproduction
suggest the idea : it was drawn as, and looked like, a nameless
geometrical figure.
The reproductions were nearly always much smaller in size than the
originals. The agent did not look on while the reproduction was being
made. It is best for no one to look on while the percipient draws, to
avoid the possibility of unconscious indications. The original drawings
were always made by me, sometimes before, sometimes during the sitting.
These conditions were all satisfactory.
On the third evening I began with a pack of cards, running through
them quickly ; with 2 reporters, one recording the card held up, the
other recording the guess made, without knowing whether it was right
or wrong. I held up the cards one after the other and gave no indica
tion whether the guesses were right or wrong. The suit was not
attempted, so that the chances of error were, I suppose, 12 to 1.
On comparing the two lists afterwards, out of 16 guesses only 6 were
wrong. Full contact was allowed during this series. The lists are
reproduced below.
The card guessing is obviously not of the slightest use unless bona
fides are certain, but, given that, it affords the readiest method of study
ing the effect of varied conditions, interposed obstacles, and such like.
The whole pack was always used and I simply cut it at random and
held up the bottom card. About 10 or 12 cards could be got through
in a minute.
The following -is the list of the first card series. Full contact
allowed :—
378 Oliver J. Lodge.
CARD LOOKED AT. CARD GUEsSErr.
Seven of Spades Seven
Six of Hearts Six
Queen of Spades ... ... ... King
Nine of Spades Nine
Three of Spades Six
Eight of Diamonds Eight
Ace of Clubs Ace
Knave of Diamonds Queen
Five of Diamonds Five
Two of Spades Ace
Ten of Hearts Six
King of Diamonds King
Ace of Spades Ace
Nine of Diamonds ... ... ... Six
Eight of Hearts Eight
Four of Spades ... Four
Thus, out of the sixteen trials, 10 were correct and 6 were wrong.
Some guesses were made, both with cards and objects, on another
evening, without contact, but none were successful. With contact
there was success again.
I then went back to simple drawings ; with the result that a cross
was reproduced as a cross (Plate II., O. 3 and R. 3) ; a figure like
4 petals was reproduced in two ways, one of them being a vague.
5-petalled figure. (Plate II., O. 4 and R. 4.)
An object consisting of an ivory measure standing on end like an
inverted V was drawn as shown in the diagram, Plate II., R. 5 («) and
R. 5 (b).
A sinuous line was reproduced as a number of sinuous lines
(Plate III., O. 6 and R. 6) ; a triangle or wedge, point downward, was
reproduced imperfectly. (Plate III., O. 7 and R. 7.)
On other evenings more of the same sort of thing were tried, such
as the diagram marked O. 8, reproduced as R. 8 (a) and R. 8 (b)
(Plate IV.) ; a face, reproduced as 3 rounds with dots and cross
(Plate IV., 0. 9 and R. 9) ; and a figure like an A with an extra long
cross stroke, which could be easily signalled as an A, but which was
reproduced correctly as a geometrical diagram with the long stroke
prominent. (Plate V., O. 10 and R. 10 (a), (b) and (c).)
A circle with 3 radii reproduced as a circle with roughly inscribed
triangle. (Plate V., O. 11 and R. 11.)
The number 3145 reproduced orally and very quickly as 3146 ;
715 also quickly as "714, no 715." The written word hund repro
duced correctly, but with a capital initial letter.
And being told that they had previously thus reproduced a word
an unknown language (not unknown character), viz., Hungarian, I
in
Some Recent Thought-Transference Experiments. 379
tried the Greek letters *tu8w ; this, however, was considered too puzzling
and was only reproduced as Uaso. A French high-heeled shoe, made of
crockery, being set up as object, it was drawn by the percipient very
fairly correctly, and said to be something like a boot, and a protuber
ance was tacked on where the heel was. (Plate V., R. 12.)
A white plaster cast of a child's hand, next tried, failed to give any
impression. An unlighted candle in candlestick was unsuccessful, and
it was objected that there was too much glare of light. Subsequently
the percipient said she had seen the general outline of a candlestick but
did not think of its being the thing. A teapot and a cup both failed,
and two of the drawings did not succeed in getting any colourable
imitation. Lastly, another set of card trials were made, with the
object of testing the effect of various kinds of contact : a card series
being quick and easy to run through.
CARD
EXHIBITED
TO AGENT.
Full contact with both / Nine . . .
hands I King ...
Knave...
Contact with tips
fingers only
of
Contact with one
finger of one hand..
Nine ...
.{ Nine ...
Queen . . .
I Eight ...
fFive ...
Seven ...
Three ...
Ten ...
Queen ...
Ace
No contact /^ce —
(.Knave...
No direct contact, but ("King ...
gap bridged by other < Four ...
person's hand I Ten . . .
Slight contact of f Eight ...
knuckles \ Slx -
iTwo ...
Knave...
Full contact again.
Seven
Three
Four
Ace of diamonds
Nine of clubs held sideways .
The record of this series is more complete than that of another
varying contact series, but it did not strike me as so instructive at
CARD
NAMED BY
PERCIPIENT.
. Nine
. King
. Two
. Nine
. Ten
. Two
.. Eight
. Six
. . Seven
.. Four
.. Six
.. Two
.. Ace
. Four
Five
. Four
. Eight
. Seven
. Six
. Ace
. Two
. Ace
. Six
. Three
. Four
. Ace—red—diamond
Nine—clubs
2 c 2
Oliver J. Lodge.
the time ; and as it came toward the end of an evening there was
probably some fatigue.
The last two entries represent attempts to get the suit as well ;
but as the particulars are given in stages there is no particular advan
tage in thus naming a card completely, and it takes a longer time.
On another evening the amount of contact was varied, but I omitted
to call out to the reporter the position of the hands with reference to
each other. One hand of each person lay on a table, and I sometimes
made them touch, sometimes separated them, all the time going on
with the card series. My impression at the time was, as expressed
above, that pronounced failure began directly I broke contact, but that
mere knuckle contact was sufficient to permit some amount of success.
I can only give the record as it stands. I believe we began without
any contact.
Second Card Series. Varying amount of contact: sometimes none.
CARD SHOWN. CARD GUESSED.
Two of Spades Knave
Ace of Diamonds Five
Knave of Diamonds Knave
10 of Diamonds 9
6 of Hearts 5
8 of Hearts 9
9 of Diamonds Ace
King of Diamonds King
10 of Hearts 10
9 of Clubs 9
Ace ... Ace
Queen Two
Queen Queen
Knave Ace
King King
Eight Eight
Eight Eight
Seven Eight
Ace Ace
Knave Knave
Seven Seven
Four Four
9 6
Queen 3
King King
Ace ... 7
Ace 5
5 10
Some Recent Thought-Transference Experiments. 381
CARD SHOWN. CABD GUESSED.
5 . 4
6 7
5 3
6 6
2 ' 3
3 6
4 4
2 8
4 ... 5
3 ... 4
3 ... Knave
Where lines are drawn it is because I called out some change in the
contact ; but I made other changes whose occurrence is not recorded.
The only use to be made of the record of this series, therefore, is to
treat it as a whole and to observe that out of 39 trials 16 were correct
and 23 wrong.
On this occasion there was one reporter who wrote down both what
he saw and what he heard ; and the operation was so rapid that he had
sometimes barely time to do the writing. Towards the end of a series,
fatigue on the part of either agent or percipient generally seemed to
spoil the conditions.
It is manifest that these experiments should not be conducted
too long consecutively, nor repeated without sufficient interval ; but
if common sense is used there is nothing deleterious in the attempt,
and if more persons tried, probably the power would be found more
widely distributed than is at present suspected.
I wish to express gratitude to the Fraulein von Lyro and their
parents, for the courtesy with which they acquiesced in my request for
opportunities of experiment, and for the willingness with which they
submitted to dull and irksome conditions, in order to enable me to give
as good evidence as possible to the Society.
The illustrations whichfollow are traced from drawings and repro
ductions made in the experiments, but though facsimiles in form they
do not always represent satisfactorily the relative clearness andfainlness
ofsome of the lines. 0. in all cases stands for Original dratving, and
Jtt. for Reproduction.
HL
0.6
H. 6
Alleged Movements, &c. 383
V.
ON ALLEGED MOVEMENTS OF OBJECTS, WITHOUT
CONTACT, OCCURRING NOT IN THE PRESENCE
OF A PAID MEDIUM.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Part II.
In Part XIX. of these Proceedings I began a review of certain
cases of physical movements of objects which it seemed difficult to
explain by ordinary laws. I divided these cases roughly into four
classes, premising that the lines of demarcation were often indistinct.
In Class A I placed movements which seemed a development of
automatism, referable, apparently (if not to ordinary causes), to some
power residing in the automatist or " medium " himself, with no
convincing indication of any external source. The twelve cases
which I quoted all belonged to Class A. Class B was to contain
cases of movement apparently connected with the death of some
" agent " at a distance ; Class C, movements having apparent con
nection with some agent already dead. Class D was reserved for
some anomalous cases in which no indication of any kind as to the
source of the movement could be discerned.
I now proceed to give a further instalment of our evidence, in
the shape of a case which may provisionally be placed in Class A,
but which illustrates the difficulty of deciding under what conditions
an influence from a deceased person may be deemed probable.
In this case there were no " intellectual phenomena," nothing but
the apparently meaningless throwing about of pieces of wood—directed,
however, by some intelligence, so as to attract attention without doing
harm. But nevertheless the witnesses of these phenomena seem
generally to have interpreted them as caused by a man recently dead,
in order to terrify a man still living into an act of honesty. That
purpose (as they believe) was attained, and the disturbances ceased.
If on other grounds we considered this view plausible, the gro-
tesqueness and vagueness of the manifestations themselves would, of
course, be no objection. We cannot tell what kind of power it
might be possible to exert. The movements of objects which occurred
were of a type within the familiar experience of the supposed agent ;
and they were effective for the end supposed to be in view. „ It is
especially noteworthy that no one person's presence seems to have been
essential to the production of these movements.
384 F. W. H. Myers.
Group A, Case XIV. [S. 12.]
The two following letters are from Mr. Bristow, now a master
joiner, to Professor Sidgwick :—
Stordale, Withington Road, Whalley Range, Manchester.
June 27th, 1891.
Dear Sir,—I have pleasure in complying with your request to be
furnished with an account of certain '' Strange experiences and eerie
phenomena " which occurred several years ago at the village of Swanland,
some few miles from Hull, in the East Riding of Yorkshire, and which are
referred to by Mr. HebbJewhite in his letter to you. The building in which
the disturbances took place was of one storey, about 10ft. high, with three
slender tie-beams placed across at intervals, and was quite open to the roof,
its length being about 40ft., and its width 17ft. or 18ft.
It was a joiner's shop, in which I served an apprenticeship which had
expired some 12 or 15 months prior to the occurrences in question.
The building was quite detached, being bounded on the one side by a
country road, whilst the other (in the centre of which was the doorway) faced
a grass field, beyond which stood the nearest building in that direction, some
500 yards away. Down the centre, commencing at one end, were arranged
two joiners' benches which, placed end to end, extended about half the
length of the shop, leaving the other half a comparatively open space ; a
couple of small benches only being fixed to the wall, which were at the time
unoccupied. [See plan on p. 388.]
On the forenoon of the day when the disturbances commenced I could,
from my position at the bench near the wall, observe every movement of my
two fellow workmen in front of me, having at the same time an unobstructed
view of the doorway and its approaches, when the man on my right
suddenly started up, saying, ' ' You fellows had better keep your pieces of
wood to yourselves, and get on with your work," and on our asking him what
he meant, he replied, "You know very well what I mean ; one of you has
pelted this piece of wood at me," picking up at the same time a small piece
about an inch or an inch and a-half square.
The two of us protested we had done nothing of the kind. The other
man, I was certain, had never for a moment ceased working. Neither had I.
The subject, being allowed to drop, was soon forgotten, when, after the
lapse of a very few minutes, the second man started up as suddenly as the
first one had done, exclaiming, " Now you are at me ; this piece " (pointing
to a rough block not larger than a match-box lying at his feet) " has come at
me, and there is nobody for it but you," meaning, of course, myself.
There being two to one I had to bear the blame, my emphatic denial
notwithstanding. I, therefore, laughingly said, "You have each had your
piece, it is my turn next." The words were scarcely out of my mouth when
a piece came sailing along and gave me a gentle dig in the ribs. "I've got
it at last," I said. " There is something mysterious about this which puzzles
me beyond measure. Let us have a search for the cause," and, acting at once
on my suggestion, we set to work and searched the nooks and corners, both
inside and out, so carefully that even a mouse could scarcely have escaped
us, but with no result save disappointment. The mysterious disturber of our
peace remained undiscovered.
Alleged Movement*, <kc. 385
We discussed the situation, getting more and more perplexed, and then
returned to work. I have said that three tie beams ran across the shop, and
on one of these beams, just above my head, were piled about a dozen window-
sashes, which, by reason of their having lain there for several months, were
covered with dust and hung with cobwebs. I had barely resumed work when
those sashes began to rattle and shake as though they would fall in pieces.
We thought, " Now we have something or somebody," and getting a small
ladder I ran up, to find the dust and cobwebs absolutely undisturbed. As I
was descending, and my head being on a level with one of the beams, a piece
of wood, about the size of two fingers, and which had previously lain on the
floor, came dancing along, taking about two feet at a bound, on a thin board
which happened to be laid on the beams, making a full stop just at my ear.
Hastening down, I said to my companions in bewilderment, "There is some
thing more than a trick in this. There is no one but ourselves near the place,
neither has there been for some time. I am half inclined to think there is
something of the supernatural about it, what say you ? " One of them
agreed with me. The other maintained it was only a clever trick being played
upon us somehow.
Whilst this little discussion was going on, the two men were standing
together some three or four yards in front of me, the sceptical one wearing an
old tall silk hat, when I saw a piece come from the far corner of the roof and
knock his hat crown partly in. The expression which his suddenly-elongated
countenance wore at that moment was a sight not to be easily forgotten.
His scepticism seemed to vanish on the instant. Occasionally a piece which
had but a short time previously been cut off, falling to the floor, would leap
upon the bench and come dancing along amongst the tools. I may just say
we were unable to catch or lay hold of any piece when in motion, every
attempt so to do was eluded. One piece I distinctly remember taking a
leap from the bench to a trestle about three yards away, from which it took a
second one to some other object, finally settling down to rest at the end of
the shop. Another piece moved in a line straight as the flight of an arrow,
about a yard from the floor, striking noiselessly as a feather the door of a
closet at the end of the shop in which nails were kept. Anon, a piece would
move as though borne along on gently heaving waves. Again a piece would
dash out from the most distant part of the roof, in an oblique direction, and
quietly drop near your feat. Some three or four hours after those disturb
ances began, our foreman, an old Scotchman, named John Clark, came to
the shop from a new building in course of erection, a considerable distance
away, where he and a number of other men were employed, in order to bring
and explain to me a drawing which he had made on a board of a piece of work
which he wanted me to execute. Full of the all-engrossing subject, I at
once said, "John, we have some strange work going on in this shop to-day,"
telling him what had taken place, at the same time hinting at its possible
supernatural character.
The old man looked at me with a serio-comic expression of countenance,
and said, "I should have thought you had more common-sense than to believe
such nonsense for a moment. I gave you credit for knowing better, &c,
&c." He had just finished his little lecture, and was proceeding to point
out the details of the drawing on the board lying in front of us, each having a
386 F. W. H. Myers.
finger upon it about an inch apart, when a piece with a somewhat sharp
point came dashing from a distant part of the roof, and struck into the
board betwixt our fingers. The hard-headed old Scot stood aghast, and for
the moment almost speechless, forbearing to make further allusion to my
common-sense.
The foregoing is a fair specimen of what occurred during the first day,
and this state of things was kept up with more or less frequency during
the following six weeks, and always in broad daylight. Occasionally we
would be left in comparative peace for a day or two, during which not more
than one or two manifestations (if I may so term them) would take place.
We would then have a busy season of it, as though making up for lost
time. On one of those latter occasions I remember a workman had come
in from the building, and was engaged in working a French window-sill ou
the bench by my side, and seeing a piece about 6in. square and lin. thick rise,
and after describing about three-fourths of a circle, say 5ft. in diameter, in
its course strike the window-sill with considerable force just in front of
him. This was the largest piece I ever saw. Generally, an ordinary match-box
would represent their bulk, althoughof everyvarietyof shape. I preservedsome
of those mysteriously projected missiles for a long time, one of which I
remember was the end of a ladder stave 3in. or 4in. long. The last piece I
ever saw was of oak, about lin. thick and from 2in. to 2£in. square. It
came in the afternoon from a distant corner of the roof towards me, and
in its course described what might be likened to a geometrical stair or cork
screw of about 18in. diameter. I may here remark that in every instance,
without exception, the moving pieces had been cut off work in the shop.
Never was a piece seen to come in at the doorway.
The fact of pieces, in number more than I can tell, getting from the
floor at your feet at the one end of the shop to the farthest point of the
roof at the other end in some mysteriously invisible fashion seemed to be
one of the strangest features of the whole thing. Never in a solitary
instance did any of our workmen, of whom there were sometimes six or
eight in the shop, nor any of our watchful visitors who favoured us with
their company during the course of those six weeks of disturbance detect
the slightest indication of anything moving upward towards the roof.
And yet a piece cut off and falling on the floor would, in spite of the
lynx-eyed watchers, speedily make its way to the roof at the other end, and
come dashing down from a point where there had been nothing a minute
before. As the time wore on we became accustomed to the thing, and the
movement of those blocks of wood, which seemed to be instinct with
life, and in some few instances almost with intelligence, caused but little
remark. It were easy to multiply instances, but those which I have given
being fair specimens of the whole may well suffice. In the foregoing plain,
unvarnished narrative of facts there may be points upon which you may
desire further information, and I have only to say that I shall be pleased
at any time to answer any questions or supply any additional information
which it may be within my power to give.
To have any additional light thrown upon or further explanation given
of what I deem to have been the most remarkable episode in my life
v-iuld afford unspeakable pleasure to—Dear sir, yours faithfully,
John Bbistow.
Alleged Movements, <L-c 387
Withington-road, Whalley Range, Manchester, July 18th, 1891.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your inquiries anent the Swanland mystery, I beg
to say the disturbances were not dependent upon the presence of any one
person or number of persons. Having a somewhat extensive jobbing or
repairing business, workmen were frequently sent out. The three of us who
chanced to have the shop to ourselves on the day when the disturbances com
menced were away several times during their continuance, and more than
once were all away at the same time. Not the slightest cessation was per
ceptible during our absence, the thing went on just the same. Every several
man we had was away at one time or another during those six weeks, making
no difference, our mysterious disturber still kept " pegging away."
Those facts were justly held to exonerate every workman about the place
from all suspicion of complicity in the affair.
I had two masters, William Habbershaw and John Gray, the latter
dying within twelve months of the affair ; the former, with whom I lived,
after carrying on the business some eighteen months after his, Gray's, death,
retired, settling down in Hull. I give the following names of eye and ear
witnesses who could corroborate what I have stated, but seeing it is now 30
years since the occurrence of the strange phenomena, very probably several
of them are scattered; two, I know, are dead, viz., my master, John Gray,
and Thomas Conder. Another one, James Hodsman, emigrated. Of the
rest, with one exception, I have heard nothing since shortly after the events
in question.
John Clark, our foreman, wrote me from Hartlepool, a little over four
years ago, where he was then living with his son ; unfortunately, I cannot lay
hands on his letter containing his address.
John Turner, joiner, Swanland.
Thomas Smith, joiner, Welton, near Hull.
John Crowther, independent gentleman, who used to make a point of
coming in to watch the course of events. His address : " Swanland."
John Harper, Swanland.
Watson Harper, Swanland.
I may just say that most exaggerated reports got abroad, notably in Hull,
where it was said that planks 5 or 6 feet long were being hurled about.
It would have been easy at the time to get the written testimony of half
a score of witnesses. I have pretty copious memoranda, but apart from that
the whole thing lives in my memory, and is as vividly present to my mind as
though it were an experience of yesterday, and will, I am persuaded, so con
tinue to the end of the mortal chapter.—I am, dear sir, yours faithfully,
John Brlstow.
The plan of the building described by Mr. Bristow, which follows,
was drawn by him from memory.
388 F. W. H. Myers.
Alleged Movements, &c. 389
The next paper is an account of an interview which I had with
Mr. Bristow, who appeared to me a careful and trustworthy informant.
Notes on Mr. Bristow's Case.
Manchester, July 31st, 1891.
I have just called on Mr. Bristow, at his house in Withington-road, and
lie has kindly supplied me with some further facts relating to the disturb
ances at Swanland. He has also presented me with his MS. notes dated
1854. These notes seem wholly concordant with his account sent to Professor
Sidgwick. The longer account, indeed, is little more than a transcript of
the rough notes, with the explanations necessary to make the narrative
intelligible to a stranger. Mr. Bristow left Swanland in 1852, but revisited
it in 1854, and wrote his notes (as he has not the slightest doubt) after that
visit. I made notes of his conversation, which I now write out under several
heads, and shall send to him for revisal, and print as revised.
1. Position of building. On one side the long joiner's shed abutted on
the macadamised road of the village. There were, however, no houses very
near. Mr. Bristow lodged in a house about 50 yards off, which was the
nearest on the same side. On opposite side of road was a house standing
behind a garden. The other sides of the shed were in a field : no house
nearer than Swanland House, then building, about 500 yards off. No cover of
any kind near the shed.
2. Windows and accesses. The windows (which would not open) were low,
so that anyone inside could easily see out of them. No one was ever detected
at the windows, and no missile ever came in by windows or door. All the
missiles were pieces of wood cut off from work in the shop, sometimes
identifiable as bits which had dropped to the ground some ten minutes before.
3. Independence of any special person's presence. This point was
specially noticed at the time, as, for want of better explanation, each new
observer was at first inclined to suspect some one of the other workmen.
4. Noiselessness of fall of missiles. On some few occasions noise was
heard ; but as a rule the missiles fell absolutely noiselessly, although with
a force which would have made loud clatter under ordinary conditions.
5. Frequency and hours of the falls. At first there were perhaps 8 or
10 in an hour. Later there were only two or three. The falls would begin
at about 9 a.m. and last till 4 or 5. They always occurred by daylight.
The first was at about 10 a.m. from N.E. (on a Tuesday, the Hull market-
day, when there were only three of us left in the shed) ; the last from S.W.
at about 2 p.m.
.«¥ 6. Direction from which missiles came. There seemed no special
preference for any one direction. Sometimes they seemed to come from
the floor ; sometimes from near the roof. No one ever saw a missile
actually starting on its course. It seemed as though one caught sight of
them at about 6 inches from their initial point.
7. This leads on to the point that the missiles seemed to be intention
ally started when no one was looking, or expecting them. Thus the first
that struck me struck me half a minute or so after I had put the matter
out of my mind. Sometimes one of us would look fixedly for many minutes
at a bit of wood on the floor. It never moved while we looked at it. But
390 F. W. H. Myers.
once let our attention be relaxed and that very bit of wood would come
flying at us from some distant point. Mr. Crowther, who was a man of
leisure and moderate independent means, used sometimes to sit in the
shed for two or three hours at a time, watching to see a piece of wood start
on its course. He never saw one start ; though, like the rest of us, he saw
many which seemed to have just started. We could never make up our
minds whether the pieces began thair flight invisibly, or only when our
attention was diverted.
8. Path of the missiles. Sometimes the path of the missiles would appear
to be absolutely straight. But often it was undulatory, rotatory, or sinuous.
Sometimes it would make a series of jumps.
Thus on one occasion a piece of wood, starting from somewhere near me,
made a series of some three or four jumps, like a frog, along the bench, about,
nine feet in length, at which I was sitting at work ; then sprang from the
bench, about 3 yards, upon a trestle, only some 4 inches wide ; then front
the trestle on to a wheel-stool (arrangement for making a wheel), and thence
straight at a closet door where we kept nails, &c, where it came to rest.
Other pieces came down through the air in corkscrew fashion.
The largest piece that ever fell described about three-fourths of a circle
thus : One of us, John Turner, was working at a large French window-sill.
He wanted to turn it over, and raised it up, leaning against his body. I was
a few yards from him, and I saw a large piece of wood rising behind him and
flying round him. It lodged itself in between him and the window-sill.
9. Accuracy of aim of the missiles. I have mentioned the alighting of a-
missile upon the narrow trestle. Others showed a still more exact aim.
Thus when the foreman and I were poring over the drawing together, as I
have described, our two fingers were, I should think, hardly an inch apart p
yet the missile fell and struck just between our fingers.
Again, I was once holding a chisel in my hand, and a piece of wood came1
and sent it flying from between my fingers, without touching my fingers. In
no case did the missiles hurt anybody. Once one flew into a pot of paint
which an apprentice, Thomas Conder, was mixing ; but they did no real
harm. For the most part they were only about as big as a matchbox—you-
might grasp as you liked at these missiles ; there was no catching them.
10. Impression made on witnesses. Perhaps 30 or 40 persons witnessed
the disturbances at different times. Not one of them could suggest any
ordinary explanation. All without exception were convinced that there was
some unknown cause. Most of them were more or less alarmed ; Mr.
Gray by far the most so, for a special reason.
11. Suggested cause of the disturbances. John Gray had a brother, a.
farmer, who died bankrupt, and left an only son, John Gray,(the same name
as his uncle's). This son became an apprentice to his uncle, working on
the bench next to me. About the termination of his apprenticeship con
sumption laid hold on him, and he died about the age of 22 or 23 years.
He was hardly more than a boy, and some few weeks before the disturb
ances began rumour said that his father's creditors had not received all
the money (said to be £100) which ought to have been paid to them, and
that his uncle was responsible for this.
My master, Mr. Habbershaw, had been married four times, and John
Alleged Movements, <ic. 391
Turner was his stepson. I knew John Turner well ; and he told me that
young John Gray's last request had been that his uncle would repay the
money due to his (young John Gray's) father's creditors.
This, I understand, the elder John Gray did not at once do.
I can personally vouch for his excessive terror when the disturbances
began. One day especially he took me with him driving to a job on the
estate near Tranby Croft (not built in those days), which was a couple of
miles or so from our workshop, and began to talk to me about the phenomena,
as though he wished to get me to put them down to some natural cause.
I refused to do so, and he could make no reply nor suggest any natural •
cause. His manner was that of a man almost petrified with terror. I felt
convinced that he had had disturbances of which we knew nothing.
He repaid the money—as was said—and the disturbances at once ceased.
Of course I cannot vouch at first hand for the repayment of the money, but
on one point I can speak from observation. Before the disturbances
began there was no tombstone to young John Gray. When they began the
uncle put one up in North Ferriby churchyard, which I suppose is there
now. I cannot answer for the exact year.
12. Witnesses now forthcoming. I much regret that I did not at the
time ask for signatures. I could easily have got twenty.
John Gray and Thomas Conder are dead. James Hodsman emigrated.
John Clarke was living 6 years ago, as I have said, but I have lost his
address. He lived with his son, also John Clarke, who was a draper at
Hartlepool. He might therefore possibly be traced. [Letter returned ; he
is probably dead. —F.W.H.M.]
John Turner, stepson of Mr. Habbershaw, Mr. Gray's partner, is, I
believe, doing business as a joiner at Swanland, and Thomas Smith at
Welton, near Hull.
John Crowther, if alive, is likely to be still in his house at Swanland.
John Harper and his brother Watson Harper were labourers, but intel
ligent men. If alive, they are likely to be still at Swanland.
Notes written out same evening. F. W. H. Myers, July 31st, 1891.
Corrected and approved. John Bristow.
It was obviously important to find other surviving witnesses, who
might confirm or modify Mr. Bristow's account. Mrs. Sidgwick visited
Swanland on September 29th, 1891, and her account is subjoined.
Notes of a visit to Swanland, made within a few hours of our
interviews.
September 29th, 1891.
Miss Allen and I went to Swanland this morning. Swanland is a village
two miles from North Ferriby, the second station from Hull on the Hull and
Doncaster line. We first visited the churchyard of North Ferriby, close to
the station, in order to discover the tombstone of John Gray. We found
two tombstones which bear on our case—one, to the memory of Stephen
Gray, died August, 1827, aged 27, and his wife, who died in 1842, and
to his son, John Gray, who died, aged 22, on January 5th, 1849.
The other, exactly similar, was to the memory of John Gray, died 1851,
aged 48, and his wife Anne, who died 1854, aged 45.
392 F. W. H. Myers.
The first John Gray is doubtless the nephew and the second the uncle,
and the occurrences in question must have taken place in 1849.
We then went on to Swanland, and first addressed ourselves to an elderly
blacksmith who was looking out of his shop, and said we were in search of
John Turner, who, we believed, could tell us about some wonderful occur
rences of pieces of wood flying about in the shop, &c. John Turner had
been dead for some time, it appears, but our blacksmith remembered hearing
about the thing, and thought some of the old people could tell us about it.
He called an old cobbler, Edward Harper, who lived a few doors off, who
had not personally seen anything, but remembered the affair well, and the
sensation it caused, people coming over from Hull to see the place. He knew
John Bristow, and was interested in hearing of him, and we gathered that
Mr. Bristow had been both liked and respected in the place. Harper also
remembered how John Crowther had interested himself in the thing, and
after being sceptical had become convinced of its mysterious character. But
John Crowther is now dead, and Harper could not think of anyone now alive
who had actually seen the movements going on except " Tommy Andrews."
Harper's account of what went on was graphic, and corresponded well with
Mr. Bristow's, except that he increased the size of the pieces of wood to the
sizo of a man's head. The belief that the disturbances arose from wishes of
young John Gray's respecting money being unfulfilled by old John Gray
was evidently the current belief in the village at the time.
We then went to see Thomas Andrews—an old man, rheumatic, and
retired from work. He impressed us as a clever, sensible sort of man. He
has a very expressive face, and I can quite imagine his being the man "the
expression of whose elongated countenance " Mr. Bristow speaks of. Miss
Allen remembers that Harper spoke of Andrews' hat being knocked in by one
of the pieces of wood, but we neglected to ask him about this, nor did I in
quire of him about specific phenomena mentioned by Mr. Bristow, but rather
tried to draw out his own independent account of things. He told us that
the pieces of wood certainly did fly about for the space of five or six weeks,
that he was working in the shop at the time and believed he was one of the
first to see them, that he believed it to be a trick at first. I asked whether
he was sure it was not a trick, and he said he was sure, because they
searched, and no one could have played it, and because the pieces of wood
could not have taken the course they did had they been thrown. To illustrate
this he made us hold his stick and showed how a piece Would come along and
go round the stick as it were, and "no one could throw it like that." Asked
as to explanations, said that some gave one and some another—but the only
one we got out of him was the one about John Gray junior's unfulfilled
wishes and the tombstone, which he said was afterwards put up. This was
his own belief as to the explanation, but he said that John Gray, senior,
when asked about it, shuffled the matter. The only specific incident I re
member his mentioning was about the Scotch foreman and the piece that came
down as he was looking at the plan. Mr. Andrews afterwards himself took
the business and occupied the shed for a time—was often in it at night, &Ci—
but never saw anything mysterious except during those six weeks. I think
he corroborated the fact that the phenomena happened independently of any
one person's presence—but am not sure. He was a little deaf, and it was
Alleged Movements, &c. 393
not quite easy to make him understand our questions. We asked when it
happened, and he calculated back that it must have been between 40 and 50
years back. He too was keen to hear about John Bristow, whom he
remembered well—-said he was an apprentice in the shop at the time,
Mr. Andrews also knew about Mr. Crowther's investigating.
We saw the shed. As you come into Swanland from Ferriby it is a few
doors to the left on the left-hand side of the road, and is still used as a car
penter's shop. It corresponds to Mr. Bristow's general description of it, except
that it now has a door on to the village street, a door in two divisions, the
upper one of which was opened by a man who looked out as we came up to it.
We spoke to him, but he knew nothing .of the matter ; he was young and a
new-comer. We looked in through the open half of the door, and saw that
the interior of the shed and the general surroundings corresponded as far as
we saw to Mr. Bristow's plan, but we did not go into the yard.
Mr. Andrews' account of the size of the pieces of wood made them some
what larger than Mr. Bristow's—about 4 inches square.
Altogether, all we saw and heard went to confirm Mr. Bristow's account,
except that the tombstone, which Mr. Andrews also said had been put up to
John Gray junior after the disturbances, was really put up to his father and
mother as well, and we cannot say whether John Gray senior really erected
it to the whole family then, or whether he added the name of the young man
then, which led to the rumour.
We are not sure whether John Crowther has left any family in Swan-
land, but doubt whether, if he did, it would be worth asking them for
notes, as, from the way he was spoken of, it hardly seemed to us likely that
he had taken any.
Eleanor Mildred Siduwick.
Eleanor Wardell Allen.
P.S.—October 1st.—I have just been looking through Mr. Bristow's rough
notes, and see that Thomas Andrews was the man who, according to him,
had his hat knocked in. Miss Allen did not know this, so that the fact
of Edward Harper, according to her recollection, remembering that Andrews
was said to have had his hat knocked in must be regarded as confirmation
of Mr. Bristow's account. It is also in Mr. Bristow's favour that a witness
he did not refer us to—T. Andrews—should confirm him as he did.
E. M. S.
[The rough notes of 1854 begin with the words : ' ' On Tuesday forenoon
Tom Smith, Tom Andrews, and myself were working in the shop" ; and later
on says : " I noticed a piece come from the farthest corner of the roof, and
partially knock in the crown of Andrews' tall hat."—P. W. H. M.]
These various recollections, independently obtained, and the
observation of the still-standing shed and its surroundings, confirm
the accuracy of Mr. Bristow's memory in a somewhat unusual way,
considering that more than 42 years had elapsed between the events
and the complete collection of evidence. We may, I think, be pretty
sure that the paper of 1854 contains a substantially accurate account
of the events of 1849.
2 D
394 F. W. H. Myers,
It is, I think, hard to doubt that in that year a long series of inex
plicable movements of objects took place ; that these movements
occurred in full daylight, and in the midst of a number of adult York-
shiremen at work on their ordinary occupations ; and that no observer
was able to suggest any explanation except the agency of a deceased
comrade. It cannot now be proved in the same first-hand manner
that on the execution of this deceased comrade's dying wish, the mani
festations ceased.
The apparent connection with this departed person may possibly be
a mere coincidence. But in any case the movements themselves will
remain to be explained ; and no plausible explanation by ordinary laws
has as yet, I think, been suggested.
Further discussion must be left for a subsequent paper. In the
meantime it is to be hoped that each fresh instalment of testimony of
this perplexing type may prompt to a wider collection of similar
records. Considering how very little serious effort has as yet been
made in this direction, the amount of evidence which has already come
to hand is enough to suggest that a good many sporadic phenomena may
be taking place in this world of which science hears little, and might
with advantage hear more.
supplement) " Riddles of the Sphinx." 395
SUPPLEMENT.
i.
" RIDDLES OF THE SPHINX." i
There is an operation in Joint Stock Company finance known as the
Reduction of Capital. When a dividend cannot be paid on the amount
originally subscribed, and embarrassing liabilities are threatened, solvency
is restored by bringing down the nominal value of the investment to a
remunerative point. The concern is saved from liquidation by a necessary
sacrifice. And perhaps the verdict of philosophy on this remarkable
book may be analogous in effect. A high speculative value may be
conceded to it, on condition that its pretensions to be a solution of
"ultimate" problems are abated. For what may be called the work
ing conceptions of the author are not really inconsistent with the
continued suspense of metaphysical problems, which find here a treatment
more original and heroic than easily acceptable. The author's primary
postulate —an original plurality of existences—may retain its validity for a
metaphysical conception of the world and the world-process, even if it is
pronounced more than problematical from the standpoint of absolute
ontology. For even in a metaphysical exposition, we may disembarrass our
selves of metaphysics with which the aim of the exposition is not co-extensive.
Now, the advantage of conceiving the world—as our author conceives it—from
the standpoint of Evolutionism is that it presents to Reason a problem limited
and defined. And the possibility of this limitation of the problem lies in such
a definition of "the world " as shall not include " existence in general," and
to which, therefore, any questions Reason may ask concerning existence in
general are irrelevant. But to attempt to make absolute and final for Reason
the data obtained from the standpoint of Evolutionism must inevitably raise
the very question which was ostensibly disclaimed. The Pluralism of the
author is therefore, ex hypothesi, a historical starting-point, however
idealistically conceived, and accordingly we cannot concede to it the
character of a genuine or final ontology.
With this important limitation, we may acknowledge that the skill with
1 Riddles of the Sphinx. A Study in the Philosophy of Evolution. By "A
Troglodyte." London : Swan Sonuenachein and Co., 1891.
2 d 2
396 [Supplement
C. G. Massey.
which we are prepared for the statement of the. author's problem, the
statement itself, and the solution, exhibit philosophical power of
a high order. In the chapter on "The Metaphysics of Evolution,"
we are led to see the necessity of teleology, and what teleology
imports. The merely scientific application of the Historical Method
fails wholly as an explanation of the higher, more complete and
complex result which it traces to its lower and simpler beginning in the
order of time. " Unmetaphysical " Evolutionism is in fact "pseudo-meta
physical," for it is driven to insert in its original datum the germ or poten
tiality of all into which it develops. 1 But when we come to close quarters
with this potentiality, and ask what it means, we find that we have, with
Aristotle, to conceive it as the metaphysical actuality of the potential.
" And that actuality must be not only prior (in Time, if the process is con
ceived as one in Time, or only in idea, or in both), but, by the very terms of the
hypothesis, external to the evolving world, non-material and non-phenomenal.
For since the whole of the material and the phenomenal was supposed to
have been derived out of the pure potentiality, the reality presupposed by that
potentiality cannot itself have formed part of the material and phenomenal
world. And thus, so far from dispensing with the need of a Divine First Cause,
the theory of Evolution, if only we have the faith in science to carry it to its
conclusion, and the courage to interpret it, proves irrefragably that no evolu
tion was possible without a pre-existent Deity, and a Deity, moreover, trans
cendent, non-material, and non-phenomenal. And for the power of such a-
Deity to produce the world, the pure potentiality with which evolution starts is
merely the expression. And the world as actual is prior to the germ which
potentially contains it, simply because the world-process is the working out of
an anterior purpose or idea in the divine consciousness. And as all things are,
as far as possible, directed to the realisation of that end or purpose, the.
real nature of things is to be found in their final course, and not in their his
torical antecedents, which, just because they take precedence in Time, are
means to an end, and of inferior significance in truth." (Pp. 198-9.)
" What comes first in science comes last in metaphysics. It is in the
higher and subsequent that the explanation of the lower and anterior is to be
sought. And instead of being simpler and more susceptible of explanation, the
lower stages of the process are really the obscurer and more unintelligible,
because they do not so clearly exhibit the drift of the process. Hence their
explanation comes last, just because in the historical process they came first.
We must not therefore hastily conclude that because the teleological method is
true, it will be at once possible to give a teleological explanation of the physical
laws of nature. The physical laws of nature are the earliest and lowest laws of
the world-process, the first attempts at the realisation of its End, and so are the
very last to become intelligible. If we ever arrive at a teleological explanation
of them, it will be only after we have worked doton to them from the higher
laws of the more complex phenomena. The basis, in other words, for a teleo
logical interpretation of nature will not be found in sciences like physics and
mechanics, but in sciences like sociology and ethics." (Pp. 205-6.)
1 This is especially apparent if, according to the most recent scientific correction
of the theory of evolution, Natural Selection is deprived of the factor of " acquired "
individual differences, such acquisitions not penetrating to the germ-cell, and being,
therefore, non-transmissible. (See Professor Weismann's Essays on Heredity and
Kindred Biological Problems. Tr. by E. B. Poulton, F.R.S. Oxford : Clarendon
Press, 1891.)
Supplement.] 397
" Riddles of the Sphinx."
Thus at the very outset of the inquiry we obtain a theistic datum, as a
first necessary postulate of a world-process that shall be at all intelligible.
"Nature" is the "Becoming" of the world, and thus phenomenal ; and
therefore God, as the metaphysical reality and cause, is outside Nature. In
fact the process, as here conceived, might be described as Dens naturans (as
its completion is Dens naturatus), were it not that the moments of " becom
ing " are not purely representative of the action of the supreme Agent, but
result from the interaction of two factors,—God and the individual spirits or
Egos—as agent and re-agents, and thus nature is the product of a re-action.
" The cosmos of our experience is a stress or interaction between God and
ourselves."
But before arrival at this point, the "atomic" constitution of the world
had been considered by the author as possibly antecedent to consciousness.
The atom is a centre of Force, and is provisionally defined as " a constant
manifestation of Divine Force or Will, exercised at a definite point." For
"Matter " is found to be "a metaphysical fiction designed to provide forces
with a vehicle" (p. 272). " There is no need to suppose that an unknowable
1 Matter ' is an ultimate reality, merely because phenomenal things have
the attribute of materiality. Matter is not the only conceivable substratum of
Force." The true substratum of Force is discoverable in what we know
—intelligence—and the Force-atoms, or centres, are modes of what we also
know, viz., Will. " Historically it is undeniable that Force is depersonalised
Will, that the prototype of Force is Will, which even now is the Force par
excellence, and the only one we know directly" 1 (p. 274). Thus " our ' force-
atoms' will have developed into ' monads, ' spiritual entities akin to ourselves. ''
"It is this closer reference to our own consciousness which makes Force a
more satisfactory explanation of things than Matter ; it is nearer to the
higher, and therefore more capable of really explaining than the lower."
'' To use causation without a reference to our own wills is to use a category
which has been reduced to a mere word without meaning." " The unity of
philosophy and of the universe is vindicated by the discovery of the funda
mental identity of Matter and Spirit, and the ultimate reduction of the
former to the latter." But then the difficulty arises of determining " the
nature of the intelligence which Matter is divined to conceal, and to discover
what is the function of this disguise of Spirit"—in other words, " the
nature of the intelligence of the force-atoms." Foregoing the assistance he
might receive from Mr. Crookes's theory of the individualism of atoms—of
» which an account was given in Chapter vii.—till that theory has received fuller
confirmation, the author recognises the limitation of consciousness to living
beings "out of which it is historically probable that our highly-evolved con
sciousness has developed."
Space is regarded as subjective, an idea obtained by abstraction : Time,
on the other hand, is held to be real in a relative sense, and finite.
" The reality of Time is involved in the reality of the world-process,"
and "the subjectivity of Time would destroy the whole meaning and
reality of the world-process, and negate the idea of the world as an
1 This conception was expounded many years ago by Dr. James Martineau, in his
?ssay on "Materialism" (Cont. Rer., March, 1870). See also Fechner : "Einige
Ideen zur Schopfungs und Entwickelungs-geschichte der Organismen."
398 [Supplement.
ft ft Massey.
evolution." The reasoning will hardly seem conclusive to a consistent
idealist ; but we can follow the author with more satisfaction when
he says with St. Augustine, "Noil est foetus mundus in tempore, sed einn,
tempore." In other words, the world-process is a beginning of time, just
because it is the origination of consciousness in that mode, or possibly its
descent. And with like reason we can conceive an end of time in a con
sciousness not representative of change. Such is the author's conception of
the consummation of the world-process by complete development of the mun
dane factor—the Egos—in perfect adaptation to the Divine Will and the
Ideal world. This result would be analogous to the hypothetical "motion
in a perfect fluid," which is equivalent to rest, all transition being instan
taneous in the absence of retardation.
The world-process being thus conceived as "a gradual harmonising of
the Deity and the Ego," and as denoting "increase in the intercourse and
interaction between them," the author's theory of the Ego and of its realisa
tion in personal development now claims attention.
The pre-cosmic "atom" represents limitation of consciousness to the
zero point, or as near thereto as the conception of phenomenality will
permit. But as an "ultimate reality" the individual factor cannot be
resolved into this phenomenon. Thus the true " Ego "is " transcendental, "
the constant "I " "with all its powers and latent capacities of development "
which is the identical substratum of all the changes of conscious personality.
It is thus identifiable essentially with the smaller "self "of consciousness,
which represents it inadequately, but by progressive approximation, from the
primary interaction with Deity, which is manifest phenomenally in the atom,
to the glorified consciousness of perpetual and associated mankind, in
adaptation to the Divine Idea, at the final consummation of the process.
The limitation of our problem to the cosmos and its time-process forbids, of
course, any question as to the pre-cosmic state of the Egos. The author
seems to hold that for the realisation of the Divine design it was
necessary that the Egos, with their great powers of resistance and
interference, should be reduced to complete torpor, for the initiation of
the process of their adaptation, and this torpor is represented by the
phenomenal condition of inorganic materiality. A sort of "statuvolence"
is thus induced, and the analogy of Hypnotism is found applicable to
the different stages of the process. For "it is far easier for the operator to
put his hypnotised subject asleep than to produce the higher manifestations
in which the consciousness of the subject is called forth, but guided by the
will of the operator, and these require far more elaborate and delicate
preparations. On this analogy, then, we may say that the lower animals are
still entranced in the lower stage of brute lethargy, while we have passed into
the higher phase of somnambulism,which already permits us strange glimpses
of a lucidity that divines the realities of the transcendental world " (p. 294).
And there is yet another use of this analogy. It is not apparent a pi'iort
how the interaction between the Deity and the Egos should result in an.
objectivity of the world common to all the " percipients." Why should the
reaction be modally identical in each and all of the latter ? Why is there
not for each a " subjective cosmos " ? In the similar case of the different
dreams which might be excited in different persons by the same waking
Supplement ] 399
"Riddles of the Sphinx."
experience, each dream would indeed be a symbol of the same real occasion,
and so far dreams illustrate the relation of the phenomenal world to its
causal reality. But parallel or corresponding dreams or hallucinations of
different people have been rarely recorded—the cases in Phantasms of the
Living are referred to—and the author prefers the analogy of the collective
hallucinations which can be induced in several hypnotised subjects, of which
instances have been published in these Proceedings. And it seems quite
supposable, on the hypothesis we are considering, that uniformity of presen
tation would be easily secured at the most depressed stage of psychical
individuality, with subjective difference at its minimum. The persistence of
uniformity in later stages of the process may be regarded as a natural
survival of established solidarity, cosmical community beginning at the base
of experience, and subsequent differentiation being concerned with a con
sciousness superior to the physical, finding its own eventual tendency to social
harmony and correspondence in evolutionary conformity to the Divine
plan.
But that we may not be misled by the author's analogy, one difference
must be noted, that whereas the hypnotiser seeks only automatic conformity
to his will, the purpose of the Deity requires a true voluntary conformity or
adaptation, and thus depression of independent functions is only preparatory
to their re-establishment with radically new dispositions. The whole process
of Evolution is shown to be conducive to this result. "If we think out the
relation which on our theory must exist between the Deity and the Egos, we
shall perceive that matter is an admirably calculated machine for regulating,
limiting, and restraining the consciousness which it encases " (p. 293). The
reinterpretation of the facts on which Materialism relies is as apparent on the
author's theory as it is admirably expounded, and leads us to the conclusion
that "Matter is not that which produces consciousness, but that which limits
it and confines its intensity within certain limits ; material organisation
does not construct consciousness out of arrangements of atoms, but con
tracts its manifestation within the sphere which it permits " (p. 295).
Thus the body is to be regarded, not only as the organ of consciousness, but
as "a mechanism for inhibiting consciousness, for preventing the full powers
of the Ego from being prematurely actualised." But advance in organisation
liberates consciousness by making unnecessary its preoccupation with the
lower functions of life, and marks an increase of intercourse and interaction
between God and the Egos. Every positive attainment by consciousness is
the relatively unconscious of a subsequent stage, and thus heredity, as develop
ment of aptitudes, sets consciousness free for the pursuit of the higher
results which are the responses of new susceptibility to Divine influence.
"The essential meaning, then, of material organisation in the evolution of
the individual is mechanism, and structure is essentially a labour-saving
apparatus which sets free consciousness. And this estimate of the function
of matter and the meaning of complexity of organisation in the individual is
confirmed by its applicability to the organisation of society. For both the
complex structure of higher societies and their elaborate material machinery
are essentially contrivances for liberating force, and enabling them to pro
duce a higher intelligence, which shall be competent to deal with higher
problems " (p. 293).
400 [.Supplement.
C. C.Maaaey.
The author justly claims for his system the merit of substituting
concrete realities for abstractions in its formula for the world-process.
'' For while all the terms of the other definitions of Evolutions, ' hetero
geneity,' 'motion,' 'matter,' ' consciousness,' &c, are abstractions which stand
for qualities of reality, which could never exist by themselves, terms like
' indiv'dual,' ' person,' and 'society' designate realities. Atoms (?), crystals,
animals, and men, the successive embodiments of the process towards
individuality, are all of them real, and as such possess an infinity of attri
butes " (p. 239).
And in the theory of the Transcendental Ego, of the reduction of its
powers to latency, and of its gradual regeneration by the development of a
conscious self that shall eventually be its fully adequate representative, and
divinely actuated realisation, we are prepared for the statement that the
individuality of our present phenomenal self is still inchoate. And this
introduces us to considerations of especial interest for Psychical Research,
and avowedly due to the influence of that study. We all, as a matter of
course, make acknowledgment of the moral and intellectual imperfection
of mankind, without having in the least understood the psychological
significance of the admission. The true defect of the individual is non-
attainment of individuality. The Transcendental Ego is, so to speak, a
Schema of perfection, an ideal for consciousness to fulfil. The new school of
psychology, which studies the phenomena of human abnormality, with a
view to the better interpretation of man, has suggested, but not quite
explicitly anticipated, this inference from its facts. Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
indeed, in passages quoted by the author, has come very near to a statement
of it. But generally the phenomena in question—"multiplex personality"
and stfme cognate facts—have been treated rather as derogating from this
established unity of the person, than as indicative of an imperfect evolution
of personality. We may note three stages in the treatment of these
phenomena. First, there was the pathological stage, in which pre
suppositions of morbidity actually (as there can now be little doubt) inter
fered with due scientific observation of the facts themselves, preventing
recognition of such as could not be accommodated to the medical hypothesis,
and of which the mere statement would discredit the observer in public or
in professional estimation. This stage is now being hopefully replaced by
that of scientific verification. But " facts " do not lead directly to ideas ;
or rather we do not arrive at facts in any systematic order unless observation
is guided by conceptions. If the latter belong to principles already recog
nised in science, we may have an extension of knowledge on the surface but
no deepening of its foundations. And should the facts be referable to a
stratum of nature below the surface already won, "science" alone is helpless
to deal with them ; they are only explicable in the light of a philosophy
which they cannot, in themselves, be adequate to prove.
But to judge of the relevance of the author's theory to the problem in
question, it is proper that we should hear himself on the point :—
" The phenomenal self," he says, " is that portion of the Transcendental Ego
which is at any time actual (exists evepyda) or present in consciousness, and
forms but a feeble and partial excerpt of the Ego. But the Self is as yet alone
real, and as in the progress of its development it unfolds all its hidden powers,
it approximates more and more to the Ego, until at last the actual and the
Supplement.] 401
" Riddies of the Sphinx."
potential would" become co-extensive, the Self and the Ego would coincide, and
in the attainment of perfection we should be all we are capable of being. And
this account of the relation of the Ego to the Self is not only metaphysically
necessary, but supported also by the direct scientific evidence of experimen
tal psychology. For it seems to provide an explanation of the exceedingly
perplexing phenomena of double or multifold and alternating consciousness,
multiplex personality, and ' secondary ' selves. These curious phenomena
forcibly bring home to us what a partial and imperfect thing our ordinary
consciousness is, how much goes on within us of which we know Dothing,
how far the phenomenal falls short of being co-extensive with our whole
nature. And yet we must either include these changes of personality within
the limits of our own 'self,' or ascribe them to possession by 'spirits.' And
there can be little doubt that the foimer theory is in most cases obviously
preferable. The secondary selves show such close relations to the primary,
display such complications of inclusive and exclusive memories, betray such
constant tendencies to merge into or to absorb their primaries, that we cannot
exclude them from our 'selves.' Indeed, it is often difficult to decide which of
several personalities is to be regarded as the primary self. . . . By the
theory suggested all these difficulties may be solved. They merely illustrate
the contention that our ordinary selves are neither our whole selves nor our
true selves. They are, as Mr. Myers phrases it, merely that portion of the self
which has happened to come to the surface, or which it has paid to develop into
actual consciousness in the course of Evolution. They are our habitual and
normal selves, more or less on a par with the secondary selves, and, like them,
phenomenal. But the Ego includes them all, and this inclusion justifies us in
reckoning these phenomena part of ourselves. In it the phenomenal selves unite
and combine, and as a beginning of this fusion it is interesting to find traces of
coalescence in the higher stages of personalities which at lower stages had
seemed exclusive and antagonistic" (p. 281, et seq.).
The author had already called attention to the fact that in some
lower forms of life we see this imperfect co-ordination expressed physically,
in the multiplication of complete physical individuals by mere fission.
And it is perhaps an evidence of life at a similar stage in the psychical
order, when we find repeated in that order an apparently analogous
phenomenon. The significance of the contemporaneous development of such
differences of character, within a common subjectivity, as are apparent in
some of our cases, will be adverted to later on. But the whole conception of
the gradual realisation in consciousness of a schema of individuality, such as
is the " Transcendental Ego " in original potentiality, seems to necessitate
the idea of successive storages of distinct experiences converted into special
faculty and characteristic tendencies. We are not, however, on this account
obliged to attribute to the partially realised Transcendental Ego a transcen
dental consciousness overlooking, as it were, the consciousness of its pheno
menal moment, and distinct therefrom. For just as the greater part of the
phenomenal self or character is in latency or abeyance in the pre-occupation
of any special moment of its experience, so the case may be similar with the
Transcendental Ego, which may invest the whole of its consciousness in its
present constructions through the phenomenal life in progress. But as in
our own experience, as phenomenal persons, there sometimes intrudes a
phase of our interest or character irrelevant to, and interruptive of, the
business in hand, so may occasionally be broken that concentration or pre
402 [Supplement.
ft ft Massey.
occupation of the more collective personality of the Transcendental Ego
which is indispensable to the continuity of our phenomenal life.
However that may be, the author is clear "that the Ego is not a second,
or alien consciousness concurrent with and distinct from the selves. The
self or selves are simply the actually conscious part of the Ego, which
represents the potentialities of their development on the one hand and
their primary and pre-cosmic condition on the other. The Ego is both the
basis of the development and its end, but within the process the selves
alone are real" (p. 410). It is, however, left problematical whether, "in
the intervals, as it were, of its incarnations," the Ego recovers a conscious
ness and memory of its past lives ; but in that case "these lucid intervals,
though they might produce great moral effects, would not in themselves
form part of the phenomenal development, and the latter would appear to
be continuous from phase to phase of phenomenal consciousness. "
In the possibility of a successive multitude of objective lives, develop
ing distinct characteristics within the integrity of a true individuality, we
have already, it would seem, the potentiality, the ideal, and the type of a
social integration. A transcendental individuality capable of and needing
expression in a long succession of distinctly characterised phenomenal lives
is itself a social microcosm of at least a family type. We see what we call
different "sides " or "aspects" of individual characters on earth, and they
are sometimes so independent of a central control as to disturb the uni
formity of a career, making it a manifestation of different and even opposed
tendencies. The individual is then described as "eccentric," as if eccen
tricity were itself a characteristic, instead of being the negation of consis
tent character, and an evidence of immature personality. By the light of
the hypothesis we are considering, we may, perhaps, see in it what would
normally require a duality of incarnations comprised in one. And it will
no longer be surprising if, occasionally, the duality should be subliminal
and only emerge under abnormal conditions. Such disturbances of the
phenomenal personality may be purposive, but they are more easily conceiv
able as testifying to an imperfect co-ordination and assimilation of the ingene-
rated experiences of the transcendental individuality. But in any case we
cannot place the latter quite outside the process, considered comprehensively,
for it has evidently a function in the process analogous to the organic. The
development of the Ego as a realised individual requires the perfect asso
ciation or integration of all the potential elements which have been brought
to consciousness through phenomenal conditions. The possibility of the
ultimate social solidarity, which is the consummation of the world-process,
depends on the perfect accomplishment of the social process in the in
dividual. Only as a true microcosm is it an eventual element in the macro
cosm. For this internal development educes the affinities which make
external combination possible. Both processes are alternately necessary,
and perhaps we may compare the phenomenal life to the activity of a day
time, and the subjective interval to the sleep in which digestion and.
assimilation prepare the organism for a renewal of voluntary functions.
If these speculations should be thought too remote from verification, it
should at least be remembered that we are driven to speculation by the
course of scientific inquiry ; . and that, as the author remarks (p. 237),
Supplement.] " Riddles of the Sphinx." 403
" there are many facts about our constitution which it is difficult to explain
except on the theory that from a higher point of view our individuality would
appear almost as shadowy and imperfect as that of a zoophyte does to us."
And the more probable this appears, the less probable is it that an eschato-
logy can be independent of philosophy, or that we shall be able to settle the
question of "a future life" by mere appeal to empirical facts. Even the
best evidence of this sort—and the author describes the evidence as "prob
ably the vastest body of unsystematised testimony in the world, varying
in value from the merest hearsay to the carefully recorded experience of the
ablest and most competent men "—carries us a very little way, and its
character is often such as to provoke new doubts and raise new difficulties.
Should we not expect this to be the case if our phenomenal life is only a
transient moment of an individuality which it only partially, perhaps even
only minutely, represents ? On the other hand, what is positive in the
evidence seems to be just what we should also expect on that very supposi
tion. For then ghostly and spiritistic manifestations would be mere
memorial survivals, and this is just what, when the evidence of identity is
at its best, they are. "Alas, poor ghost ! " Poor remnant of an experience
from which all the use and vitality has been extracted. Perhaps, after all,
the general indifference of mankind to the question of the future life, which
the author censures and deplores, may be realty a confirmation of his own
theory of immortality. For if that is true, the future life of the phenomenal
person, in the distinct and unambiguous sense of the continuity of a realised
consciousness, is at most conditional. The life we know is a special concentra
tion, a contraction of the sphere of the Ego. With the withdrawal of the
conditions of its experience and habitual activity, all that is significant and
concrete in the conception of identity would seem to be lost. If the truth
of our immortality is the absorption of the phenomenal in the transcendental
person, to the great majority of mankind this would be hardly a degree
less indifferent and insignificant than absorption in Pan. Immersed in
objective interests, consciousness [has not developed the modes of its sub
jective survival, nor forged the links of a realised identity with our eternal
principle. If, then, the true immortality is a return to the subjective and
transcendental, it is at least a wise instinct that prevents men from seeking it
where alone they could seek it with interest and concern, in a false con
tinuity of external manifestation. And yet in such manifestations, studied
without prejudice and without misplaced hope, we may find proof enough to
confute the grosser sort of materialism, and suggestion enough to guide
psychical research to results that shall be more than speculative.
In the chapter on "Immortality," the necessary distinction is made
between the identity of the Transcendental Ego in all its upward manifesta
tions from the lowest form of life to the life of man, and the self-identifica
tion which depends on memory. For the latter we thus arrive at a
"graduated " immortality :—
"If we can conceive a future life, the reality of which depends on memory,
it will admit of less or more. And if, as seems natural, the extent to which
the events of life are remembered depends largely on the intensity of spiritual
activity they implied, it follows that the higher and intenser consciousness was
during life, the greater the intensity of future consciousness. Hence the amoeba
404 [Supplement.
C. G. Massey.
or the embryo, with their infinitesimal consciousness, will possess only an infini
tesimal memory of their past after death. And this for a twofold reason : not
only must the impress life produces upon so rudimentary a consciousness generate
only a very faint memory, but the contents also of life will present little that is
capable of persisting and worthy of being retained. Thus the lowest phase of
spiritual existence will have nothing to remember, and hardly any neans of
remembering it. We cannot, therefore, ascribe to them any vivid or enduring-
consciousness of their past lives, and yet need not deny it altogether. They
have a future life, but it is rudimentary." " By a self-acting arrangement the
condition of consciousness hereafter will accurately correspond to its attain
ments here. Just in proportion as we have developed our spiritual powers here
will be our spiritual future. Those who have lived the life of beasts here, a dull
and brutish life that was redeemed by no effort to illumine the soul by spiritual
enlightenment, will be rewarded as ' the beasts that perish.' They will retain
little of what they were, their future life will be brief and faint. On the other
hand, we need not hesitate to attribute to the faithful dog, whom the strength
of pure affection for his master has lifted far above the spiritual level of his race,
at least as much immortality as the brutal savage, whose life has been ennobled
by no high thoughts and redeemed by no elevated feeling—' Nicht nur Verdienst,
audi Treue wahrt uns die Person.' Those, again, whose activities have been
devoted to the commission of evil deeds, that burn their impress on the soul,
will be haunted by their torturing memory. Those who have habituated them
selves to high and noble activities, who have disposed their thoughts towards
truths which are permanent, and their affections towards relations which are
enduring, will rise to life everlasting. . . . Thus each of us will be the
master and maker of his own self and of his own immortality, and his future life
will be such as he has deserved."
That, however, is memorial survival ; but the true, metaphysical,
immortality is unconditional. That is to say,
"To the extent to which we are to be identified with ultimate existences
and Transcendental Egos, it is absolutely certain that we are immortal.
And, further, as the whole world-process is a process taking place in the
interaction between the Egos and the Deity, the different stages of material
evolution must correspond to different phases of that spiritual interaction.
Parallel, therefore, to the physical evolution, there runs a spiritual evolution,
related to it as meaning and motive to outward and visible manifesta
tion. And there is no reason why this process should not be the develop
ment, not of Spirit in general, but of particular spirits, why a single Ego
should not pass through the succession of organisms and developments of con
sciousness, from the amceba to man, and from man to perfection. This gives,
as it were, the spiritual interpretation of the descent of man from the beasts, and
at the same time assures him of his due and proportionate share in the immor
tality of the ultimate spirit."
The answer to the question: " What is the relation of such an eternal
spirit to its successive phases, which form our phenomenal existences, and
in what sense can these be said to have a future life ? " is thus already
evident. " They persist as factors in the development. " "All the elements
of the lower phases of life that are capable of development are transformed
into the higher," the rest being rejected in accordance with " the law
whereby all organisms take up and assimilate what they can utilise, i.e.,
what serves their purposes, and reject what they cannot."
Supplement.] 405
" Riddles of the Sphinx."
"Nevertheless it is not until the higher stages of individuality and spiritual
development are reached that the phenomenal self of any single life, i.e., the
memory of its past, can he supposed to form a predominant, or even an im
portant, factor in the total or final consciousness of the Ego, or one that can
display any great permanence. The lower phases of Evolution do not
generate sufficient psychical energy to attain to any considerahle degree of
immortality. "
On mere "memory," however, we should not lay too much stress. For
as, on the one hand, " it is not necessary that we should remember all we
did ten years ago in order to feel ourselves the same persons now as then,"
so, on the other hand, the result of experience is much more than memory ;
it is the development of faculty and intelligence. And that is at once the
interest of the Transcendental Ego in the phenomenal life, and also the true
preservation of whatever in the latter is fitted to survive.
The difficulty supposed to be offered by Heredity to the conception of
Pre-existence is met by the author alternatively in two ways. For, first, it
may be said that heredity, while offering the conditions of individual mani
festation, cannot show the selective determination which results in the actual
individual character.
" The parents possess an indefinite number of potentialities that may
possibly be inherited, and these, again, may be commingled in an indefinite
number of ways. But the character actually inherited is a definite combina
tion of these potential qualities, and what determines the way in which it
is actually combined? It is not enough to know generally that the parents
supply the materials of the new combination ; we must know also what arranges
the materials in a defmite order. Now if we supposed that this proportion in
which the various dispositions of the parents entered into the character of
the offspring was really determined by the character of the spiritual entity
which the parents were capable of providing with a suitable organism,' we
should at all events have devised a method which rendered pre-existence com
patible with heredity. For there is no apparent break in the chain of natural
causes : the whole character of the offspring is inherited from the parents. But
as the limits within which heredity is possible are very wide, the spiritual selec
tion is supposed to work within them."
Or, secondly, we may have immediate recourse to teleology, allowing
that the character of the offspring is definitely determined at birth, but
insisting that it is just so determined in the interest of the true individuality
which has to be developed.
"As the ultimate explanation of everything is teleogical, i.e., relative to
the end of the world-process, the parents must be in the last resort held to
transmit certain qualities to their offspring in order to further the develop
ment of the pre-existing spirits. For .the parents are such as they are, their
parents are such as they are, and so on, everything is such as it is, until the
metaphysical or first cause of the world-process is reached, which is also its
final cause, and acts in a certain way in order to promote that process."
The identification of the Transcendental Ego with the lower phenomenal
stages of the process, perhaps even with man, is relieved from obvious
difficulty by a supposition which has both presumption and evidence in its
favour. The Ego may manifest concurrently in different organisms. At the
base of the phenomenal process only a (/nnsi-individuality is apparent.
406 [Supplement.
C, G. Massey.
"And the analogy of the ' secondary selves ' within ourselves will enable us
to understand how several relatively-separate selves of consciousness can co
exist within the same entity, and how unsafe it is to argue from temporary
exclusiveness to ultimate distinctness. We may hold, then, that the indi
vidual cells of a tree, or the individual polypes of azoophyte are the 'secondary
selves ' of the lower organisms ; nor need the fact that they possess distinct
physical organisations and are under the proper conditions capable of spatially
distinct existence, perplex us when we reflect that Space was not found to be
an ultimate reality."
And in higher strata of life, including the human, we seem to get hints of
the same severance. " Multiplex personality," to which the author here
again refers, is perhaps rather the converse phenomenon of undue inclusion,
within a single organism, of distinct psychical combinations which might
claim distinct objective expression. But the ulterior significance may be
similar. And in the division of the sexes has often been seen a suggestion of
sundered individuality ; " for neither men nor women are sufficient in them
selves or complete representatives, either physically or spiritually, of
humanity."
A summary characterisation of this book may specify as its key-note the
idea of the relation between rational, or teleological, causation, and historical
antecedents or conditions. The whole world-process is the effectuation of
the first through the second, the accommodation of the second to the first.
This is the adjustment of science to philosophy, of phenomena to the truth
of things. And as our conception of the final end to be attained becomes
clearer and more definite, so will our understanding of the stages of the
process be more complete. Naturally, the first fallacy as to final causation
is " anthropocentric " ; phenomenal man is for all things the end, and " cork
trees grow in order to supply us with champagne corks." A metaphysical
idea is conceived unmetaphysically. But when we see that a perfect social
integration—our highest ideal—implies perfection in the individual elements
to be integrated, the conception of teleology obliges us to reinterpret
the transient self as a furtherance of true individuality. For it is then
also apparent that all defect in the individual is a falling short of individuality.
The potentiality of man is the metaphysical idea of his being ; in the words
of a late American writer, elucidating a cognate conception in Indian philo
sophy, '' an ideal capability stands fast in us as the real substance of our
selves."1 There are many who feel and acknowledge this sentiment, yet
decline the attempt to give it metaphysical form or validity. It is the
merit of this book that it has made the attempt fearlessly, attacking the
problem with remarkable powers of philosophising from assumed data. And
if it should be objected that the Transcendental Egos, emptied of all content
at the origin of the world-process, seem too unreal for the conception of sub
jectivity to attach to them, it may be replied that the difficulty is not essen
tially greater than that which we daily overcome, in the recovery of latent
consciousness. Nor is it at all more easy to conceive function as originating
with exercise than as anteceding it. We may be perplexed, indeed, to
understand how the author can have persuaded himself that his hypothesis
really " begins at the beginning." It is at least as easy to represent
1 Johnson : Oriental Religions, p. 388. (The Sankhya.)
Supplement.] " Riddles of the Sphinx." 407
the anarchy of unrelated wills, necessitating their imposed paralysis and
dormancy, as consequent on a "Fall" into self-centred Egoism, as to
suppose it an absolutely original condition. And if such conceptions are
to be admitted into philosophy, perhaps a finer and juster supposition
would be that of a gradual reduction, to the zero point of extinction, sus
tained by consciousness through progressive astringency and contraction of
the individual wills which had departed from the community of dependence
on a universal centre. Thus the divine agency would begin with the cosmic
process, as a refilling of the vacant forms of consciousness, and a re-eliciting,
in response to stimulation, of the human energies, as conceived by the
author. But a philosophy of evolution properly and necessarily takes as its
starting point the chaos, however caused, of the elements of the future
cosmic combination. The objection of philosophy is to the author's con
tention that this beginning must be regarded as absolute.
It may be remarked, in conclusion, that the special interest of this book
for Psychical Research lies in the suggestion of non-equivalence of the
phenomenal self-consciousness to a true subjectivity. The idea is certainly
not new, but it is here given a systematic expression in the relation of tele
ology to Evolution. And another very fruitful idea for our study is that which
discovers an essential connection between the development of individuality
and human solidarity. If a perfect society implies perfect community of
sympathetic life, we must conceive the individual as in formal correspon
dence with all the modes of a true humanity, and the special affinities mani
fested in phenomena of telepathy may be regarded as faint anticipations of
si, general rapport which will be similarly immediate. The development of
man will be marked and accompanied by continuous retreat of the threshold
,of his consciousness, and the connection between his moral state and his
spiritual powers will be constantly more apparent.
C. C. Massey.
408 [Supplement.
"The Occult Sciences."
II.
"THE OCCULT SCIENCES." 1
"It is . . . an unpretending but useful task," says Mr. Edward Waite,
"which we have set ourselves to perform in the present volume, which,
embraces, as we would claim, in a compressed and digested form, the whole
scope of occult knowledge, expressed in the language of a learner."
Whether such a task is or is not " unpretending " will partly depend upon
what " the whole scope of occult knowledge," as conceived by the author,
turns out to be. The evidence for so-called occult science is diffused over
many literatures ; it includes at any rate a very large admixture of deliberate
fraud and childish folly ; and, if it is to be presented seriously, it, above all
things, needs the support of some modern experiment—some kind of proof
that there is some kind of reality in some at least of the marvels which are
copied from book to book as matters of such ordinary occurrence,
Let us, then, in a very few words, consider Mr. Waite's claims to learning,
to critical acumen, and to the production of experimental evidence.
The very defective " List of Authorities " at the end of the book gives no
high notion of the author's qualifications as a scholar. His range of
languages does not go beyond English, French, and Latin ; and through
out his work the misprints (?) and mis-spellings are of just that type which
indicates a somewhat shallow or second-hand acquaintance with at least his.
Latin authorities. With such books, on the other hand, as Lee's Glimpses of
the Supernatural, Frances Lord's Christian-Science Healiwj, Dr. Hartmann's
Magic, and Colonel Olcott's Theosophy, Religion, and Occult Science—all of
these quoted as "authorities "—we are disposed to allow our author a much
fuller acquaintance.
To illustrate Mr. Waite's critical acumen it is only necessary to open the
book at random. On page 69, for instance, we find these words, spoken in
all seriousness : "For the practical part, or the method of communicating
with demons, the Grimorium Verum and the Grand Grimoire are said to be
entirely sufficient." Who says so ? We suppose it is one of those " living
writers who are specialists in distinct branches of esoteric science," who, as
Mr. Waite tells us in his preface, have lent him their valuable aid.
We must, however, in fairness add that although our author intellectually
believes in the Black Magic of the Grand Grimoire, he morally disapproves
of it, and points to a more excellent way. "Every practical power," he says,
p. 58, " which Black Magic can at the utmost offer to its initiates is guaran
teed with tenfold additional capacity ... by the branch which is
denominated Divine. 'To be a Christian is hard,' said the impressed but
vacillating pagan, and the heights of mystical sanctity are also laborious in
1 The Occult Science* ; a Compenlium of Transcendental Doctrine and Experiment.
By Arthur Edward Waite. Kegan Paul, Trench, Trtibner and Co., 1891.
Supplement.] 409
" The Occult Sciences."
their ascent, but the apex of adeptship is far more easily attained by the
humanity which is called thereto, than is the diabolical condition which the
Black Magic that is behind Black Magic requires of its professors."
After this solemn warning we shall do well to turn our impressed but vacil
lating minds to the experimental proof which Mr. Waite offers us of the reali
ties underlying his chapters on "Composition of Talismans," "Kabbalism,"
and so forth. That some such verification is necessary he does at least profess
to discern. " The experiments," he says, "which were the foundation of
magical doctrine and magical hypothesis are facts which are not to be
evaporated by the severity of critical analysis ; they are the synthesis of the
experiments of the ages, and they can be verified by those who desire it."
We turned over many a page of Mr. Waite's work in search of these verifying
experiments. At last, in the last chapter, the cat, if such an expression be
allowed us, issued gently from the bag. "In the year 1874, Madame
Blavatsky " it is the story of the duplicated teacup after all. What
more is there to say ? Let him who still believes in the miracles of Mr.
Sinnett's Occult World as facts believe in Mr. Waite's Occult Sciences as
theory. Atque idem jungat vidpes, et mulgeat hircos.
Edmund Qurney Lihravy. 411
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1891.
Additions since the list in "Proceedings," Vol. VI.
ENGLISH
James (Professor William), The Principles of Psychology (2 vols.),
London, 1890
Kingsbury, G. C, M.D., The Practice of Hypnotic Suggestion,
Bristol, 1891
Ochorowicz (Dr. J.), Mental Suggestion, with a preface by Prof.
Ch. Richet New York, 1891
TucKEY(Dr. C. Lloyd), Psycho-Therapeutics. 3rd edition, revised
and enlarged London, 1891
FRENCH.
Archives du Magnétisme Animal. Publiées par M. le Baron
D'Henin de Cuvillers. (8 vols.) Paris, 1820-3
Bérillon (Dr. Edgar), Les indications formelles de la Suggestion
Hypnotique, en Psychiatrie et en Neuropathologie Paris, 1891
B.ÉRILLON (Dr. Edgar), Hypnotisme et Suggestion Paris, 1891
Bernheim (Professor H.), Hypnotisme, Suggestion, Psycho
thérapie ; Etudes nouvelles.. Paris, 1891
Cagliostro, Mémoires Authentiques pour servir à l'Histoire du
Comte de. 2nd Edition 1785
Cagliostro Démasqué a Varsovie. Par un Témoin oculaire ... 1786
Charcot (Dr. J. M.), Œuvres Complètes. Tome IX. Métallo-
thérapie et Hypnotisme, &c Paris, 1890
Chevreul (E.), De la Baguette Divinatoire Paris, 1854
Despine (Dr. P.), Etude Scientifique sur le Somnambulisme, Paris, 1880
D'Henin de Cuvillers (M. le Baron), Le Magnétisme Éclairé
ou Introduction aux Archives du Magnétisme Animal, Paris, 1820
Du PoTET(Le Baron de Sennevoy), Cours de Magnétisme...Paris, 1840
Gasparin (Comte Ag. de), Tables Tournantes. 2nd Edition, Paris, 1888
Liébeault (Dr. A. A.), Thérapeutique Suggestive Paris, 1891
2 e 2
412 Edmund Gurney Library.
Noizet (General), M&noire sur le Somnambulisme et le Magne-
tisme Animal Paris, 1852
Pitres (Professor A.), Lemons cliniques sur l'Hyst^rie et
l'Hypnotisme. (2 wis.) Paris, 1891
Regnier (Dr. L. R.), Hypnotisme et Croyances Anciennes, Paris, 1891
Thouret, Extrait de la Correspondance de la Societe' Royale de
Medecine relativement au Magn6tisme Animal Paris, 1785
GERMAN.
Gesellschafi fur Psychologische Forschung. Schriften.
Heft I Leipzig, 1891
Wetterstrand (Dr. Otto G.), Der Hypnotismus und seine
Anwendung in der praktischen Medicin Vienna, 1891
A full catalogue of the boohs in the Edmund Gurney Library tvas printed,
at the end of Vol. V. of the Proceedings. A supplementary catalogue was
printed at the end of Vol. VI. Separate copies of these catalogues are still on.
hand, and can be obtained from the Secretary.
List of Members and Associates. 413
LIST OF MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
(January, 1892.)
PRESIDENT.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, Cambridge.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 4, Carlton-gardens, S.W.
Professor W. F. Barrett, Royal College of Science, Dublin.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
John R. Hollond, Esq., 1, Upper Berkeley-street, Portman-square, W.
Richard H. Hutton, Esq., Crossdeep Lodge, Twickenham.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
Hon. Roden Noel, St. Aubyns, West Brighton.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon,
COUNCIL FOR 1892.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
Frank Podmore.
ProfessorW. Ramsay,Ph.D.,F.R.S.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
C. Lockhart Robertson, M.D.
Sydney C. Scott.
H. Arthur Smith.
H. Babington Smith.
R. Pearsall Smith.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
J. Venn, D.Sc, F.R.S.
G. W. Balfour, M.P.
Thomas Barkworth.
Professor W. F. Barrett.
G. P. Bidder, Q.C.
The Earl of Crawford and
Balcarres, K.T., F.R.S.
William Crookes, F.R.S.
Lieut.-Col. J. Hartley.
Walter Leaf, Litt.D.
Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S.
ProfessorMacalister.M.D.,F.R.S.
A. T. Myers, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Frederic W, H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Frank Podmore, 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, London, N.W.
SECRETARY FOR FRANCE.
Leon Marillier, 7, Rue Michelet, Paris.
SECRETARY FOR THE UNITED STATES.
Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY.
Edward T. Bennett, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
414 List of Members and Associates.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
William Crookes, F.R.S., 7, Kensington Park-gardens, London, W.
The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M.P., Hawarden Castle,
Chester.
Sib Frederick Leighton, Bart., P.R.A., 2, Holland Park-road, "W.
John Ruskin, LL.D., D.C.L., Brantwood, Coniston, Lancashire.
Lord Tennyson, Farringford, Freshwater, Isle of Wight.
Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset.
G. F. Watts, R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Dr. Alfred Backman, Kalmar, Swede"n.
Professor H. Beaunis, 28, Rue de Courcelles, Paris.
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.'
Max Dessoir, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Db. Heinrich Hertz, The University, Bonn.
Professor Pierre Janet, Bourg-la-Reine, France.
Mahadeva Vishnu Kane, B.A., Dharwar, Bombay.
Professor Kovalevsky, The University, Kharkof, Russia.
Dr. A. A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Hans Natge, Berlin-Tempelliof, Berlin.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,U.S.A.
Db. F. Freiherr Goeler von Ravensburg, 4, Nettelbeckstrasse,
Berlin, W.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de l'Universite\ Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenk-Notzing, 29, Herzog-Wilhelnistrasse,
Munich.
H. Taine, Menthon St. Bernard, Haute Savoie, France.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
,List of Members and Assoc iates. 415
MEMBERS.
Allan, T. S., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., Ed., Salford House, Tunbridge, Kent.
Ashburton, The Lady, Kent House, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Atkinson, Miss E. A., 44, Percy-gardens, Tynemouth.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 5, "Warwick-gardens, West Kensington, W.
Balfour, The Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 4, Carlton gardens, S.W.
Balfour, Lady Frances, 32, Addison-road, London, W".
Balfour, G. W., M.P., 67, Addison-road, London, W.
Balfour, Miss, 4, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W".
Balliston, "W. H. T., 6, Down-street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Banister, Major Fitzgerald M., R.A., JuniorArmy and Navy Club,W.
Barber, Mrs. J. W., Ferndene, Abbeydale, near Sheffield.
Barkworth, Thomas, J.P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.R.S.E., Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
Barrett, Ashley "William, M.B. (Lond.), 42, Finsbury-square, E.C.
Barrington, Hon. Eric, 62, Cadogan-place, London, S.W.
Bective, The Countess, 39, Bryanston-square, London, "W.
Bennett, Edward T., Devonshire House, Richmond, near London.
Benson, Mrs., Lambeth Palace, London, S.E.
Berens, Rev. Randolph, M.A., 14, Prince's-gardens, London, S.W.
Best, R. Lloyd Storr, Burlington-crescent, Goole.
Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Bibby, Charles Hesketh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bidder, G. P., Q.C., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, Mrs. G. P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19, Ennismore-gardens, S.W.
Blaquiere, Mrs. Charles de, 1, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Bramwell, John Milne, M.B., Goole, Yorkshire.
Bridson, Joseph Ridgway, Belle Isle, "Windermere.
Bryce, J. P., J.P., Bystock, near Exmouth, Devon.
BuNdy, Colonel John C, Chicago, U.S.A.
Bushell, Rev. W. D., M.A., Harrow on-the-Hill.
Bote, The Marquis of, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W".
Carpenter, Major G. W.Wallace, 28, Ashley-place, Victoria-st., S.W.
Castle, Robert, 9, Canterbury-road, Oxford.
Cave, Charles J. P., 13, Lowndes-square, London, S.W.
Clive, The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Close, Rev. Maxwell H, M.A., "University Club, Dublin.
Coffin, Walter H, F.L.S., 94, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Coles, Donald A., M.D., SydneyHouse, Sutton Court-road, Chiswick,W.
Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2, Cavendish-
square, London, "W.
Crawshay, Robert, 16, Berkeley-square, London, "W.
List of Members and Associates.
Crommelin, Miss Constance de la C, 36, Sussex-square, Brighton.
D'Abbadie, Antoine, 120, Rue de Bac, Paris.
Dakin, Rev. Edward, Selsley, Stroud, Gloucestershire.
Dakyns, Henry Graham, M.A., Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dawkin, William, 61, Clifton-street, Larkhall-lane, S.W.
De Grey, The Countess, 1, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, N.B.
Dixon, Edward Travers, Cave House, Cambridge.
Dodgson, Rev. Charles Lutwidge, MA., Christ Church, Oxford.
Downing, Charles, Athelston, High-road, Streatham, London, S.W.
Dugdale, Mrs. Stratford, Merevale Hall, Atherstone.
Elder, Frederick, 21, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elder, Mrs., Campden House, Kensington, London, W.
Elder, Miss M. C, Campden House, Kensington, London, W.
Elworthy, Arthur K., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
Elwyn, Rev. Canon, M.A., Master's Lodge, Charterhouse, London, E.C.
Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Ewing, Lieut.-Colonel A., The Lawn, Taunton.
Falcke, Dudley C, o, Pump-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Florence, Ernest B., 33, Redcliffe-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Flower, Mrs. Cyril, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Ford, Mrs. Gerard, 58, Marine Parade, Brighton.
Forster, Anthony, 6, Anglesea-terrace, Gensing-gardens, St. Leonards.
Fountain, Alfred, Highfield, Hillingdon, Uxbridge.
Freer, Miss, 6, Westbourne Grove-terrace, London, W.
Fry, Lewis George, 13, Thurlow-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Gardner, Herbert, M.P., 46, Down-street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Gary, Baron Raymond de, 17, Rue dAnjou St. Honore, Paris.
Gaussen, Mrs. L. D., Marton, Basechurch, Salop.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., M.A., St. Barnabas Vicarage, Sheffield.
Goodman, Louis Henry, Bertram House, 170, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Graham, William, 19, Ashley-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Graham, Mrs., 19, Ashley-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Graham, William W., 4, Elm-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Griffin, Francis Charles, Junior Athen£eum Club, Piccadilly, W.
Gurney, Rev. Alfred. M.A., St. Barnabas Parsonage, Pimlico, S.W.
Gurney, Henry G., 3, Regent-street, London, W.
Gurney, Mrs. Russell, 3, Orme-square, London, W.
Hayward, M. Cecil, Caius College, Cambridge.
Henley, Hon. Ernest, Watford Court, Rugby.
Hewetson, H. Bendelack, F.L.S., M.R.C.S., 11, Hanover-square, Leeds.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Henry R., M.A., Melbourne Club, Melbourne, Australia.
Hollond, John R., M.A., 1, Upper Berkeley-street, Portman-square, W.
List of Members and Associates. 417
Holt, H. Sherwin, Wave Cottage, Chelmsford.
Hood, H. J., M.A., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Howard, Robert Henry, Sowerby, Thirsk.
Hughes, Major Henry Morgan, F.R.G.S., Birchington, Margate.
Hume, A. 0., C.B., The Chalet, Kingswood-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Hutchinson, Frederick W. H, B.A., 1, Emmanuel-road, Cambridge.
Hutchison, Rev. R. P., M.A., Martyr Worthy Rectory, Winchester.
Jameson, P., 6, Westbourne Park-villas, London, W.
Jameson, Miss, Glencormac, Bray, Ireland.
Jebb, J. Gladwyn, 11, Chester-place, Hyde Park-square, London, W.
Jeune, Lady, 37, Wimpole-street, London, W.
Joyce, S., Junr., 158, Princess-road, Alexandra Park, Manchester.
Kay, H. A., 71, Maida Vale, London, W.
Kelso, Commander, R.N., Horkesby Park, Colchester.
Knowles, Ernest, Inglehurst Park-road, Bolton-le-Moors.
Lafone, Alfred W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, M.A., Yalding Vicarage, Maidstone.
Leaf, Walter, Litt. D., Old Change, London, E.C.
Leycester, Mrs., 6, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Leyson, Miss Kate, Penscynnor, Neath, South Wales.
Lincoln, The Very Rev. The Dean of, The Deanery, Lincoln.
Lodge, Professor O. J., D.Sc, P.R.S., 21, Waverley-road, Liverpool.
MacColl,Rev.Canon Malcolm,M.A.,Devonshire Club, St.James's,S.W.
Macfarlane, A. W., M.D., F.R.C.P. (Edin.), 6, Manchester-square.W.
Mackay, Mrs., 7, Buckingham-gate, London, S.W.
Macqueen, Mrs., 7, Trevor-terrace, Rutland Gate, S.W.
Manders, H, F.R.C.S., Agincourt House, Yorktown, Farnborough.
Marshall, John William, M.A., The Holt, Godalming.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78, Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, S.E.
Massey, Charles C, 124, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Matthews,FrankH., M.A., Ivy Villa, Beulah Hill,Upper Norwood, S.E.
Micklethwait, Richard K, Ardsley House, Barnsley.
Milford, The Lady, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Money, Colonel Gerard Noel, C.B., F.R.G.S.
Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett, Walsingham House, Piccadilly, W.
Montefiore, F., 4, Great Stanhope-street, London, W.
Mount-Temple, The Lady, Shelley House, Chelsea, S.W.
Murray-Aynsley, Mrs., Great Brampton, near Hereford.
Myers, A. T., M.D., 2, Manchester-square, London, W.
Myers, Frederic W. H, M.A., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Nelson, Rev. George, LL.D., The Rectory, Southwick, Brighton.
Newmann, Oscar P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
Nicoll, Augustus, M.B., 99, ElmParkGardens, SouthKensington, S.W.
Paschkoff, A., Quai Gagarine, 10, St. Petersburg.
418 List of Members and Associates.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Islands.
Petrovo-Solovovo [Solovoy], Michael, 9, Mohovaia, St. Petersburg.
Pilcher, Giles T., Kingswood Hanger, Gomshall, Guildford.
Podmore, Frank, M.A., 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, N.W.
Porter, Miss, 16, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 29, Albion-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Pye, William A., 24, Daleham-gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Rayleigh, Clara Lady, 90, Onslow-gardens, London, S.W.
Ridley, Henry N., M.A.,F.L.S., Botanic Gardens, Singapore.
Robertson, C. Lockhart, M.D., Guns Green, The Drive, Wimbledon.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Rev. E.H., M.A.,Vicarage, ThamesDitton, Kingston-on-Thames.
Rogers, George Frederick, B.A., 24, St. Andrew's-street, Cambridge.
Ross, A. Galt, 7, Edinburgh-terrace, Victoria-road, London, W.
Rucker, Professor Arthur W., F.R.S., Errington, Clapham Pk., S.W.
Russell, The Earl, Amberley Cottage, Maidenhead.
Rylands, Thomas G., F.L.S.,F.G.S.,Highfields,Thelwall, nr.Warrington.
Sands, Mrs. Mahlon, 40, Portland-place, London, W.
Scott, Sydney C, Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill,London,S.E.
Selous, Edmund, Barton Mills, near Mildenhall, Suffolk.
SHOve,MissE.,K.Q.C.P.I.5M.B.,25,St.Mark's-cres., Regent'sPk.,N.W.
Sidgwick, Professor Henry, Hill Side, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Mrs. H, Hill Side, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Arthur, M.A., 64, Woodstock-road, Oxford.
Sims, F. Manley, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford-street, Mayfair, W.
Sisley, Richard, M.B., Park-row, Knightsbridge, London, W.
Smith, Henry* Arthur, 1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Smith, Martin Ridley', 1 3, Upper Belgrave-street, London, S.W.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, NewYork, U.S.A.
Smith, R. Pearsall, 44, Grosvenor-road, London, S.W.
solovioff, wsevolod.
Soltykoff, Prince Alexis.
Stack, J. Herbert, 30, Kensington Park-gardens, London, W.
Stanhope, The Right Hon. E., M.P., 111, Eaton-square, London, W.
Stanley, Henry M., D.C.L., LL.D., 2, Richmond-terrace, S.W.
Stapelton, Josiah G., 47, Lee-terrace, Lewisham, S.E.
Stead, William T., Mowbray House, Norfolk-street, Strand, W.C.
Stearn, H. T., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Stogdon, John Cole, M.A., 18, Clement's Inn, London, W.C.
Sturgis, Julian, M.A., 2, Gloucester-place,Portman-square, London, W.
Swan, JosEPn Wilson, Lauriston, Bromley, Kent.
Talbot, The Lady Edmond, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Tattersall, Robert W., 31, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
List of Members and Associates. 419
Taylor, Rev. Charles J., M.A., The Larches, Banstead, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss Edith, 9, Milner-square, London, W.
Taylor, Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M., Royal Military College, Cam-
berley, Surrey.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, near Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Thomson, Professor J. J., M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Thorpe, Mrs. Mary, Lenton House, Lenton, Nottingham.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 14, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Tweedie, George R., F.C.S., 54, Hawley-square, Margate.
Vacher, William H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, S.W.
"Vicars, G. R., M.D., Bridge House, Revesby, Boston, Lincolnshire.
Webb, Godfrey, 13, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Welldon, Rev. J. E. C, M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Westlake, Ernest, F.G.S., 2, Ridgeway-road, Redhill.
Whitear, Rev. W., B.A., 107, Florence road, Finsbury Park, N.
Willmott, Miss R., Warley-place, Great Warley, Essex.
Wilson, David H., M.A., Rosemont, Hyeres, France.
Wingfield, H. E., M.A., 42, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Wisden, Thomas Faulconer M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
Woodhouse, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
Woodrdffe, Miss Adelaide, 18, Shooter's Hill-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 32a, Orchard-street, London, W.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
Carlile, W. A., 165, Bevington-road, Aston, Birmingham.
Curtis, Miss Mary, Laugharne, St. Clears, South Wales.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 13, Dumfries-place, Cardiff.
Grubb, Edward, M.A., Rye Croft, Fulford-road, Scarborough.
Hayes, Joseph W., 1, George's-street, Enniscorthy.
James, Captain, 10, Hereford-road, Bayswater, London, W.
Jenkins, E. Vaughan, Energlyn, 31, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Keulemans, J. G., 13, York-terrace, Brewery-road, Southend.
Kirk, Joseph, 1, Ripon-villas, Upper Ripon-road, Plumstead, Kent.
Macdonald, Rev. J. A., 43, Hill Side-road, Stamford Hill, London, N.
Nisbet, E. T., 13, The Crescent, Gateshead.
Robertson, Miss N., 1, Oakley-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Saxby, Mrs., Mount Elton, Clevedon.
Scudamore, Mrs., 3, Tollington Park, Holloway, London, N.
Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gilford Rectory, Essex.
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., Smithsonian Institution,Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Sudgen, Rev. E. H, B.A., B.Sc., Bradford, Yorkshire.
Walwyn, Mrs., 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Wingfield, Mrs., Belvidere Place, Church-road, Wimbledon.
420 List of Members and Associates.
ASSOCIATES.
Adair, Mrs., Glenavon, Cookstown, Co. Tyrone.
Adams, Rev. J. M.Goold, M.A., TheVicarage, Rossdowney, Londonderry.
Adams, Mrs., The Observatory, Cambridge.
Ainslie, Ainslie Douglas, 15, Lower Grosvenor-place, S.W.
Alexander, S., M.A., Lincoln College, Oxford.
Allen, C. F. Egerton, B.A., Heywood Cottage, Tenby.
Allen, Frederic, Sidmouth-road, Newcastle, Staffordshire.
Allen, Henry J., 14, Ailesbury-road, Donnybrook, Co. Dublin.
Allen, Rev. W. O. B., M.A., 140, Cambridge-street, London, S.W.
Anderson, James Arbuthnot, 46, Warwick-gardens, Kensington, W.
Amery, W. C, 13, Corporation-street, Birmingham.
Argles, Miss Edith M., The Deanery, Peterborough.
Arkwright, Walter George, Adbury House, Newbury.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Ashcropt, Rev. Thomas, The Manse, West Leigh, near Manchester.
Bacchus, Mrs., The Manor House, Lillington, near Leamington.
Badelier, Emile, Rangoon, British Burmah.
Baillie, Edmund J., F.L.S., Woodbine, Eaton-road, Chester.
Ball, Thomas Stanley, Spring Bank, Fulwood, near Preston.
Bartholomew, Colonel, Bantry Lodge, GlengarifF, Co. Cork.
Barkworth, Lieut. John R., R.E., RA. and R.E. Mess, Malta.
Bates, Colonel Charles Ellison, 35, Oxford-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Bates, Miss, care of London and County Bank, Maidstone.
Bayfield, Rev. Matthew A., M.A., Christ's College, Brecon.
Bazley, Sir Thomas S., Bart., J.P., M.A., Hatherop Castle, Fairford,
Gloucestershire.
Beazley, Lieutenant-Colonel George G., 74, Redcliffe-square, S.W.
Beatty, Octavius, Killevey, Darleston-road, Wimbledon, Surrey.
Beer, Mrs., 7, Chesterfield-gardens, London, W.
Bell, Bainbridge R., The Rectory, Cheltenham.
Bell, Charles W., J.P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Bellasis, Major G. M., c/o H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Benson, R. Hugh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bergen, Axel von, Harewood Hill, Darlington.
Bergen, Dr. Carl von, 32, Karlavagen, Stockholm.
Berkeley, Captain H, Fitzhardinge, R.N., Warwick Lodge, Rivers-
court, Hammersmith, W.
Berrey, Walter F. M., MA.,Western Lodge,Clapham Common, S.W.
Bevan, Rev. C.B., M.A., 30, St. Andrew's-road, Southsea.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131, Gloucester-road, London, S.W.
Bewley, Miss Mary M., Netherton House, Clapham Common, S.W.
Bickford-Smith, R.A.H., B.A., 19,Endymion-road, Brixton Rise,S.W.
List of Members and Associates. 421
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, M.A., Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bicknell, Norman L., Foxgrove, Beokenham, Kent.
Bidder, George P., Jonr., Ravensbury Park, Mitchara, Surrey.
Bird, George, M.D , 49, Welbeck-street, London, W.
Birks, Rev. Edward B., M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Birrell, Mrs., Placilla, Down View-road, Worthing.
Blaikie, Miss J. L., 10, Stratford-place, London, W.
Blackwell, Elizabeth, M.D., Rock House, Hastings.
Bois, Herbert G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
Boldero, Lieut.-General G. N., 20, Westbourne-gardens, Folkestone.
Bolland, Mrs., 7, Cranbury-terrace, Southampton.
Bonus, Arthur R., c/o A. Scott and Co., Rangoon, Burmah.
Bonus, Joseph, Major-General, R.E., The Cedars, Strawberry Hill,
near London.
Boorne, Herbert H, Sydenham House, Reading.
Boscq de Beaumont, G. du, Airel (Manche), France.
Bostock, Miss E. A., Penmaen Gower, Swansea.
Boucher, Mrs., c/o Miss Lutley, West-street, Wiveliscombe, Somerset.
Bouverie, Edward O. P., M.A., 93, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Bovill, Mrs. Alfred, 9, St. Andrew's-place, Regent's Park, N.W.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Highclere Rectory, Newbury.
Bowness, William Wilson, 26,Campden-grove, Kensington,London,W.
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, N.B.
Boyd, William Henry, Ballymacool, Letterkenny.
Bramston, Miss M., 41, Dingwall-road, Croydon.
Brandreth, Henry S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brazier, John J., The Park, Heath-road-gardens, Twickenham.
Brett, George, The College, Weston-super-Mare.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21, Park-valley, Nottingham.
Briggs, Mrs., Rawdon Hall, near Leeds.
Brill, Alice B., M.D., New York City, U.S.A.
Britten, James, F.L.S., 18, West-square, Southwark, S.E.
Brown, Mrs., 21, South-street, Park-lane, W.
Brown, Miss Johnson, c/o Miss Holland, 35, Duke-street, Southport.
Browne, Edward G., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browning, Oscar, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Brownlow, The Countess, Ashridge, Berkhamsted.
Bruhns, Theodore, Simferopol, Russia.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15, Notting Hill-square, Campden Hill, W.
Buckle, W. T., M.B. (Lond.), 5, Vicarage Villas, Willesden, N.
Buckler, W. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bullock, Mrs., Cedars Lodge, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bulmer, Mrs., Field House, Sleights, R.S.O., York.
422 List of Members and Associates.
Burt, Pekcival J., 16, Leadenhall-street, London, E.G.
Burton, Mrs., Longner Hall, Shrewsbury.
Burton, Mrs., 1, Iddesleigh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Butcher, Miss, 22, Collingham-place, London, S.W.
Butler, G. W., B.A., F.G.S., Blenheim Lodge, Surbiton, Surrey.
Buttemer, Robert William, St. Mary's, Godalming.
Buxton, Mrs. Sydney, 15, Eaton-place, London, S.W.
Caird, Mrs., 3, Lyndhurst-gardens, South Hampstead, London.
Caldecott, Rev. Alfred, M.A., 57, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Campbell, James A., Barbreck, vid Lochgilphead, Argyll, N.B.
Cannon, Mrs., Hillcot, Sharpies, near Bolton.
Carleton, Hon. Mrs. Leir, Greywell Hall, Winchfield.
Caudee, Miss, care of Messrs. Brown, Shipley and Co., Founders-
court, Lothbury, London, E.C.
Cave-Browne-Oave, Mrs. T., Burnage, Streatham Common, S.W.
Cazalet, Mrs., Grenehurst, Dorking.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
Chandler, Rev. H. 0. D., M.A., Waterbeach Vicarage, Cambridge.
Charlesworth, Miss A. M., Westfield College, South Hampstead, N.W.
Chase, Capt. W. St. L, V.C., S.C., 28th Bombay Pioneers, Kirkee,
Bombay.
Chattock, Arthur P., University College, Bristol.
Clarke, Robert H., M.A., M.B., M.R.C S., Clarence Lodge, Redhill.
Clavequin, Edward, Munster Lodge, Monkstown, Dublin.
Clayton, Charles E., Hillcote, Highcroft-villas, Brighton.
Clemens, S. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Colchester, Rev. H.B., M.A., 1, Leinster-place,Paddington,London,W,
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Coles, Miss Alice I., Elmfield, Streatham, London, S.W.
Collins, Sir Robert. H., K.C.B., Broom Hill, Claremont, Esher.
Colthurst, Lady, 47, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Colvile, Colonel Henry E., C.B., 24, Chapel-st., Belgrave-square, W.
Comneno3, The Princess Eugenie, 7, Comeragh-road, S.W.
Coombe, Miss, Blackburn House, Liverpool.
Cope, Rev. C. H., M.A., 52, Rue des Drapiers, Brussels.
Cort van der Linden, Professor P. W. A., Amsterdam, Holland.
Coues, Dr. Elliott, 1726, N. Street, N.W. Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Cox, John, M.A., McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
Cox, Mrs., 9, Bessborough-street, South Belgravia, S.W.
Cowan, Mrs., Valleyfield, Penicuik, N.B.
Crawford, W. C, 1, Lockharton-gardens, Slateford, Midlothian, N.B.
Crespo, J. Charters, Rio Maior, Portugal.
Crews, Richard G., Glenholme, Mount Park, Ealing, W.
Cnowe, W. LEADnAM, 24, Cornwall-road, Westbourne Park, W.
List of Members and Associates. 423
Crowther, William F., Hailsham; Sussex.
Cunningham, G., D.M.D. (Harvard, U.S.A.), 2, King's Parade,
Cambridge.
Cunningham, Rev. W., D.D., 2, St. Paul's-road, Cambridge.
Daintrey, Charles J., Petworth, Sussex.
Daniel, A. M., B.A., Temple Chambers, London, E.C
Darwin, Mrs. Francis, Wychfield, Huntingdon-road, Cambridge.
Darley, Lady, Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
Darell-Brown, Mrs., 1, Douro-villas, Cheltenham.
Davis, A. E., L.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-sq., Liverpool.
Davis, Thomas Henry, The Western and Brazilian Telegraph Company,
Caixa, 453, Rio Janeiro, Brazil.
Debenham, Ernest Ridley, B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Devlin, Richard Theodore, Poste-restante, Monaco, France.
Dickinson, Goldsworthy L., M.A., King's College, Cambridge,
Dickinson, Mrs., Bramblebury, Wandsworth Common, S.W.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., 80, Peel-street, Campden Hill, London, W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Dixon, Hugh N, M.A., F.L.S., Wickham House, East Park Parade,
Northampton.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler-place, Adelaide, South Australia.
Doubleday, Mrs. Frances G., care of Drexel, Harris and Co., 37,
Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Doveton, F. B., Glencroft House, Lyndhurst-road, Exeter.
Dowson, Mrs., L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S.I., 20, Westgate-terrace, Redcliffe-
square, London, S.W.
Duckworth, A. C, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Dunn, Edmund A., 92, Regent-street, London, W.
Eagle, Frederick, Newport, near Barnstaple.
Eardley, Lady, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Earle, Mrs. C. W., 5, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Edelstun, John A., Quernfield, Latchford, Warrington.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., Whitwell Hall, York.
Elliot, The Hon. Mrs., 63, Wimpole-street, London, W,
Elliott, Sir Charles Alfred, K.C.S.I., LL.B., Calcutta.
Elliott, Rev. W. A., Matebele Land, via Mafeking, British Bechuana
Land, South Africa.
Ellis, John Edward, M.P., 40, Pont-street, London, S.W.
Ellison, Rev. John H., M.A., 4, Warwick-square,.London, S.W.
Elton, Oliver, M.A., 58, Flanders-road, Bedford Park, W,
Elvey, Miss Mary M., Finborough-road,West Brompton, London, S.W.
Evans, Kirkham, Adelaide, South Australia,
Evans, Mrs., The Great House, Llanmaes, near Cowbridge, Glamorgan.
Farncombe, George Richard, B.A., 40, Belgrave-street, Birmingham.
424 List of Members and Associates.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Newnham Paddox, Lutterworth.1'
Felton, Alfred, Melbourne, Australia.
Finch, Heneage Wynne, Jun., The Manor House, Stokesley.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
FitzGerald,DesmondG.,M.S.T.E.,46, Loughborough-rd., Brixton, S.W_
FitzGerald, Miss, Clareville, Galway.
Fletcher, Rev. W. Roby, M.A., Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Adelaide, South Australia.
Flynt, William Garnett, 7, Walmer-road, Birkdale Park, Southport.
Forjett, C, 66, Quentin-road, Lee, London.
Fox, St. George Lane, 66. Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Fraser, Col. A. T., R.E., PublicWorks Dptmt., Madras Presidency.
Freeman, Mis3 Adelaide C , Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor-gdns., S.W..
Fry, Oliver A., M.A., 141, Portsdown-road, Maida Vale, London, W„
Fry, R. E., B.A., 1, Palace Houses, Bayswater Hill, London, W.
Garbett, Edward H, Barcombe House, Hull.
Gardiner, Rev. Edward R., M.A., Fawley Vicarage, Wantage.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, c/o Miss Wilson, 33, Ladbroke-square, W.
Garet-Charles, G.G.,Woodleigh, Gough-road, Edgbaston, Birmingham,
Garry, Francis N, M.A., St. Mary's Vicarage, Reading.
Gessmann, Gustav., Junr., Zwolfers Gasthof, Altmansdorf, Vienna.
Gibotteau, Aime, M.D , Villa Bearnaise, Biarritz.
Gilcriest, W. F., AI.C.E. (Ireland), Sligo.
Gladstone, Miss Catherine Annie, Shedfield Cottage, Botley, Hants.
Glover, John J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W., Dublin.
Godfrey, Mrs., c/o Col. C.W. Godfrey, Bombay StaffCorps, Poona, India.
Goodman, Roger N., B.A., B.Sc, Brookfield, Cambridge.
Goring, Lady, Strettington, Chichester.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 1, Garden-court, Temple, London, E.C. : ' "xi
Graham, Henry R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W. <-.'"
Graham, J. W., B.A., Meadowside, Heald-place, Rusholme, Manchester.
Grantham, F. W., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Gray, Rev. A., M.A., 21, Shakespeare-road, Bedford.
Green, C. T., M R.C.S., L.R.C.P. (Lond.), 33, Grange-mt., Birkenhead.
Green, Miss Marian, The High School, Spring Mount, Blackburn.
Greig, Rev. David, M.A., Cottenham Rectory, Cambridge.
Grier, Captain George R., Bagshot Lodge, Athlone.
Griffith, Mrs. Robert W., The Old House, Llandaff.
Grignon, Rev. William S., M.A., Essenden, Hatfield, Herts.
Grubbe, Hubert H., National Liberal Club, London, S.W.
Gudgeon, James, Stowmarket.
Guinness, Miss Henrietta,
Gunton, Rev. Charles F., M.A., Farlam Vicarage, Milton, Carlisle.
Gunton, Rev. F., M.A., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
List of Members and Associates. 425
Gurney, Rev. F., M.A., St. John's Cottage, Bovey Tracey, Newton
Abbott.
Hackett, James F., B.A., 71, King William-street, Adelaide, Australia
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 2, Edinburgh-terrace, Kensington, W.
Hansford, Charles. 3, Alexandra-terrace, Dorchester.
Haroreaves, Miss, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport.
Harpur, Rev. George, B.A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Harris, J. Chantry, NewZealand1'imesOffice,Wellington, New Zealand.
Hartley, Lieut.-Colonel J., LL.D., D.L., The Old Downs, Hartley,
near Fawkham, via Dartford.
Hastie, Miss, 11, Ashburn-place, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Hayes, Frederick W., 12, Westcroft-square, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Heaton, Charles, M.R.C.S., Watford, Herts.
Henniker-Major, The Hon. Mary, 4, Berkeley-street, Piccadilly, W.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1, Argyll-villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert, Hon. Auberon, M.A., Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Herringham, Mrs., 22, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Hibbs, Reginald R., 13, St. Lawrence-road, North Kensington, W.
Higgin, F. C, Killiney Castle, Killiney, Co. Dublin.
Hill, Miss E. D., Instowe, Cheltenham.
Hill, Henry, The Park, Nottingham.
Hill, W. Scott, 47, Manor-place, Edinburgh.
Hills, Mrs., Corby Castle, Carlisle.
Hodding, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's-cross, Salisbury.
Hogg, Miss A. M. M., Berry Head House, Brixham.
Holland, Mrs., Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Holstein, Madame Alexandra de, 29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
Hook, Rev. Cecil, M.A., Hook Memorial Vicarage, Leeds.
Hooper, Gordon, L.D.S.R.C.S., 21, New Cavendish-st., Harley-st.,W.
Hopkk. jon,ProfessorA., M.A., B.C.L., The Lodge,32, Heme Hill,S.E.
Horne, Alderson, 10, Norfolk-street, London, W.
Howard, Harry W., Maitland House, Greenwich, S.E.
Howe, E. R. J. Gambier, 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C
Howorth, Henry H., M.P., Derby House, Eccles, near Manchester.
Hubbe-Schleiden, Dr. J. U., Neuhausen, near Munich.
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hughes, Frank Septimus, 12, Millbank-street, S.W.
Hughes-Hughes, Mrs., 25, Seymour-street, Portman-square, W.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., B.Sc. (Lond.), Trinity College, Cambridge.
Humfrey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park-mansions, London, W.
Humphreys, Edward H. P., Denmark Hill, London, S.E.
Hutching, D. E., Conservator of Forests, Cape Town,
Inglis, Rev. D., Douglas, Isle of Man.
Innes, Lieut.-Colonel P. R., 11, Cheniston-gardens, London, W.
2 F
426 List of Members and Associates.
Irving, Lewis A., Surgeon-Major, Government House, Ganesh Khind,
Bombay.
Jackson, William H., M.A., F.L.S., Penwartha, Weston-super-Mare.
Jeaffreson, R«v.H. H..M.A., 115, Clifton Hill, St.John's Wood, N.W.
Jebb, Rev. H. Gladwyn, M.A , Firbeck Hall, Rotherham.
Jebb, Mrs., Springfield, Newnham, Cambridge.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Myn-yr-Afon, Ruabon.
Jennings, Mrs., 16, Lower Sloane-street, S.W.
Johnson, William Ernest, B.A., LlandafF House, Cambridge.
Johnston, Miss M. F., 16, Gunterstone-road, West Kensington, W.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranrner Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Kane, J. G. Auriol, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
Keatinge, Mrs. R. H., 12, Onslow-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Keene, Rev. James B., M.A., The Rectory, Navan, Co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, M.A., 2, Lloyd-place, Blackheath, London, S.I3.
Ker, C. B., M.D., Hadley House, Cheltenham.
Kimber, Mrs., 3, Roland-gardens, South Kensington, London, S.W.
Kingsbury, George C, M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.B., Stormont Lodge, Willesden, N.W.
Knox, Nathaniel A , Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Konstamm, Edwin M.,
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W. S., M.A.,F.R.H.S.,Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
Laing, R.M., M.A., B.Sc, Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lancaster, Ernest Le C, M.B., St. George's Hospital, S.W.
La Touche, Mrs., Harristown, Brannoxtown, Co. Kildare, Ireland.
Leaf, Arthur H., Old Change, London, E.C.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Leigh, W, Austen, M.A., 2, Norfolk-crescent, Hyde Park, London,W.
Leighton, Miss, 19, Wilton-place, London, S.W.
Lewis, C. W. Mansel, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Leymarie, P. G., 5, Rue des Petits Champs, Paris.
Lilly, William Samuel, J.P , 27, Michael's grove, S.W.
Limond, Miss Catherine, 15, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, Bohemia, Port St. Mary, Isle of Man.
Lindsay, Robert, L.R.C.S., M.B., 59, Caversham-road, London, N.W.
Lloyd, Francis, Grenadier Guards, 43, Rutland-gate, London, S.W.
Lodge, Robert, Saxonhurst, Fox Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Longstaff, G. B., M.A., M.B. (Oxon.), Highlands, Putney Heath, S.W.
Lyttulton, Sybella, Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Macalister, Professor, M.D., F.R.S., Cambridge.
Macky, Dr., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair, W.
Maclagan, Miss M. M., 4, West Cromwell-road, London, S.W.
MacNaughton, Rev. Samuel, M. A., Rose Bank, Addison-road, Preston.
List of Members and Associates. 427
Maitland, Edward, B.A., 1, Studio-buildings, Thurloe-square, S.W.
Major, Albert, 77, Clapham-road, London, N.W.
Malden, William E. P., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Malmesbury, Susan Countess of, 25, Sloanc-gardens, S.W.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 5, South Bank-terrace, Surbiton.
Marjoribanks, Lady, Tillmouth Park, Cornhill-on-Tweed, Northumber
land.
Marshall, Arthur, 13, Belsize-avenue, London, N.W.
Marshall, George W., LL.D., F.S.A., Holmbush, Upper Richmond-
road, Putney, S.W.
Marshall, Henry William, Quorn, South Australia.
Marshall, William Cecil, M.A., 23, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Marshall, Mrs., 50, Eaton-place, Brighton.
Marson, Gervase, 3, Park-road, Southport.
Martin, Mrs. E. G., 42, Rue Gambetta, Honfleur (Calvados), France.
Martin, W. R., 65, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Mason, Miss M. H., Morton Hall, Retford, Notts.
Mathews, G.B., B. A., 9, Menai View-terrace,Upper Bangor,NorthWales.
McKerlie, Miss Helen G., Monkstown, Co. Dublin.
McLaren, Mrs. C, -15, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
Miller, Robert, 6, Chester-street, Edinburgh.
Miller, Mrs. W. Pitt, Merlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Milman, Mrs. W. H., 17, Southwell-gardens, London, S.W.
Minot, Dr. C. Sedgwick, 25, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, U.S.A.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., 195, Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Molesworth, Sir Guilford L, K.C.I.E., Simla, India.
Money, Charles L., Northbrook Cottage, Petersfield.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., 3, South Eaton-place, London, S.W.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
Moore, Major-General Montgomery, Gipsy Lodge, Norwood, S.E.
Mordan, Miss C. E., 15, Queen-square, W.C.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge. ,
Morison, Mrs. Miller, Morison House, Hetland, Ruthwell, N.B.
Morison, Theodore, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
Moul, Mrs. 3, Prince's Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Moule, John, Codicote, Welwyn, Herts.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., G, Rue Daubigny, Place Malesherbes, Paris.
Mulholland, Mrs., Woodrising Hall, Shipdham, Norfolk.
Munro, Henry Acland, B.A., 17, Vincent-square, S.W.
Murray, Colonel Hugh H., R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
Murray, Oswald,. 38, Parliament Hill road, Hampstead, N.W,
Murray, Sydney J., 70, Cecile Park, Crouch Hill, London.
Murray, R. M., M.A., M.B., M.R.C.P.(Edin.), 10, Hope-st., Edinburgh.
Musk, Miss Agnes, Market-place, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
2 f 2
428 List of Members and Associates.
Myers, Mrs., Brandon House, Cheltenham.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhanipton House, Cambridge.
Mylne, Mrs., 122, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Nathan, S. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Neild, Frederick, The Yews, Fernhurst, Sussex.
Neate, Percy John, F.G.S., M.M.E., Medway Iron Works, Rochester.
Nevill, The Lady Dorothy, 45, Charles-street, London, W.
Neville, Francis Henry, M.A., Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
Newbold, Miss A., 9, Claro-terrace, Richmond-road, S.W.
Newsom, John, The American Trading Company, Yokohama, Japan.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
Nicholls, Rev. T.B., M.A., St. Oswald's College, Tyneniouth.
Nichols, Miss Irene, Lawford Hall, Manningtree.
Nicholson, Sir Charles, Bart., D.C.L., LL.D., M.D., The Grange,
Totteridge, Herts.
Nicolson, Sir Arthur, K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Consulate General,.
124, Andrassy-street, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Noakes, D. W., 23, Nelson-street, Greenwich, S.E.
Noel, Hon. Roden, St. Aubyns, West Brighton.
Norris, William Alfred, Pine Hill, Ore, Hastings,
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent.
Oakeley, Miss H. D., 97, Warwick-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
Oman, Mrs., St. Philip's Lodge, Painswick-road, Cheltenham.
Oman, Charles W. O, M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
O'Neill, Gregory L.,M.B., 140, Elizabeth-st.,Sydney,NewSouth Wales,
Opie, Edward A. D., J.P., Pirie-street, Adelaide.
Osborne, James, Ph.C, Hersham, near Walton-on-Thames.
Pagan, MissO, Richmond Cottage, Uley, near Dursley, Gloucestershire,
Paget, Lady-, The Embassy, Vienna. .
Paice, William, ALA., 1, Portman Mansions, Baker-street, W.
Palmer, Lieut. H.R., R.A., The Grand Depot Barracks, Woolwich.
Parker, Miss E. A., The Elms, Gosforth, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Parry, Rev. William Edwards, B.A., 1, Bell-terrace, Clewer,Windsor.
Passingham, Mrs., 11, Morton-crescent, Exmouth.
Peake, C. W., B.A,, c/o Mr. Wood, High-street, Newport, Salop.
Pennington, Mrs., c/o William Watson & Co., 28, Apollo-st., Bombay.
Perry, Edwin C, M.A., The College, Guy's Hospital, London, S.E.
Plummer, J. W., Oockermouth.
Pollock, Miss, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs., 2, Wilton-terrace, Belgrave-square, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Glensouthwell, Rathfarnham, Co. Dublin.
Pope, George H, M.A., B.C.L., Merchants' Hall, Bristol.
Porstmouth, The Countess of, 2, Abbey-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
List of Members and Associates. 429
Postgate, Professor J. P., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Powell, George Thompson, llotherwood, Sydenham Hill, S.E,
Powles, Lewis Charles. M.A., Bushey, Herts.
Praed, Mrs. Campbell, 16, Talbot-square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Preble, W. P., Junr., 237, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Pretious, Mrs. W. T., Newnham House, Loughton, Essex.
Pribitkof, V., 23, Troitzky Pereoulok, St. Petersburg.
Prickett, Miss L. M., Soutlicliffe Sanatorium, Ilfracombe.
Prothero, Mrs., 63, Trumpington-street, Cambridge.
Pym, Mrs. Angela,. Bankside, Lunham-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Radnor, The Countess of, 8, Ennismore-gardens, London, S.W.
Raleigh, Walter A., M.A., 27, Ladbroke-road, London, W.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W.
Raper R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
Rawson, Henry G., 68, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Reichel, Principal H. R., M.A., University College, Bangor.
Reynolds, Colonel H. C, Thorncliffe, Cheltenham.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Riddiford, Mrs. W. H., Barnwood- Cottage, near Gloucester.
Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham-gardens, London, N.W.
Rigg, Thomas S. J., B.A., General Post Office, Sydney.
Ritchie, Miss, 131, Clapham-road, London, S.W.
Roberts, William Johnson, 146, Pembroke-road, Dublin.
Roberts, Rev.W.W., Brook Dene, 14, Strawberry Hill-road, Twickenham.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
Robin, Percy A., B.A., George-street, Parkside, Adelaide, Australia.
Robinson, Edward, 4, Castelnau-gardens, Barnes, S.W.
Robinson, Dr. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Robinson, Mrs. Lionel, 19, Kensington-square, London, W.
Roger, W. Wallace, 31, Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
Rosenbach, Dr. P., Kaiserliche Medicinische Akademie, St. Petersburg.
Rossi-Pagnoni, Professor G.F., 4, Via Sabbatini, Pesaro, Italy.
Rouse, Rolla E., M.D., 2, Tisbury-road, West Brighton.
Roxburgh, R., M.B., F.R.C.S.E., 1, Victoria-bdgs.,Weston-super-Mare.
Russell, John, B.A., 16, Somersfield-road, Finsbury Park, London, N.
Russell, Mrs. Rosetta, Golden Mead, Chislehurst.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Haywards Heath.
Sams, Rev. George F., M.A., Emberton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
Saunders, Latimer Henry, Trevone, Padstow.
Saunders, Thomas Bailey, M. A., 13, Hyde Park Gate, S.W.
Schiller, F. C. S., B.A., Gersau, Lake of Lucerne, Switzerland.
Scholefield, Rev. C. O, M.A., 32, Lowndes-street, S.W.
Schram, Miss Lilian M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Sellin, Professor C. W., 5, Wrangelstrasse, Hoheluft, Hamburg.
430 List of Members and Associates.
Seymour, Captain Edward H., 11.N., 9, Ovington-square, S.W.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, 21, Nottingham-place, London, W.
Shaen, Rev. Richard, M.A., West Cottage, Royston, Herts.
Shaxd, Alexander F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Sheavyn, Robert F., Long-street, Atherstone.
SnePPARD, W. F., M.A., 2, Temple-gardens, E.C.
Shilton, Alfred J., F.C.S., 36, Castle-street, Reading.
Shuttleworth, John, Withington, Manchester.
Sidebotham, Edward J., Earlsdene, Bowden, Cheshire.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 29, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Simpson, Reginald Wynne, B.A., 14, Cornwall-gardens, S.W.
Skene, Miss F. M. F., 13, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Sladen, Douglas B. W.
Sloman, Rev. Arthur, M.A., The School House, Birkenhead.
Sloman, Samuel George, Jun., 39, West-street, Farnham.
Smart, J. Naish, Sydney House, Burnham.
Smith, Rev. Canon H. B , M.A., Hotel de l'Ermitage, Hyeres, France.
Smith, G. Albert, 2, Howlett's-road, Herne Hill, S.E.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
Smith, H. Babington, B.A., Iliverbank, Putney, London, S.W.
Smith, John George, Jun., Hill House, Surbiton.
Smith, R. Morris, 3,715, Chestnut-street, W. Philadelphia, LT.S.A.
Smith, Rev. Canon II Travers, B.D., Vicarage, Clyde-road, Dublin.
Smith, Miss J. M., 52, Stanhope-gardens, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Smith, Mrs. Richard, 174, Cromwell-road, London, S.W.
Smith, Wallace A., 34, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London, \V.
Snape, Mrs., Markland Hill, Heaton, Bolton.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M., 25, York-street, Portman-square, W.
Sperling, Arthur, J.P., Lattenbury Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
Stackhouse, Mrs. M. F., Stackhouse, Settle.
Stanway, Miss Emily, 17, Park-street, Taunton.
Staples, Miss, Dunmore, Durrow, Abbeyleix, Ireland.
Stapley, Alfred M., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Stepney, Hon. Lady, 3, Chesham-street, London, S.W.
Stevenson, George, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., Hastings-st., Calcutta*
Stewart, Mrs. Charlotte A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stillman, W. J., 3, Challoner-street, West Kensington, W.
Stone, Miss Edith L., Shute Hay, Walditch, Bridport.
Stout, George F., B.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Sturge, Miss Emily, Tyndall's Park, Clifton, Bristol.
Sturges, Mrs.William, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, London,W,
Swan, C. A., 10, Delamere-street, London, S.W.
Swanwick, Miss Anna, 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W.
Symonds, John Addington, M.A., Davos-Platz, Switzerland.
List of Members and Associates. 431
Symons, Miss Jessie H., 91, Wigrnore-street, I*mdon, W.
Tancred, Mrs. Clement, 2, Princes' Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Tanner, Ernest, 3, Windsor-terrace, Penarth.
Tattersall, James Granville, Hanover-square Club, London, W.
Tattersall, Wm., 90, High-street, Oxford.
Taunton, Mrs. R. H., Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Taylor, Rev. Arnold D., B.A., Churchstanton Rectory,Honiton, Devon.
Thackeray, Mrs. W. G., Montague House, Vanbrugh Park, S.E.
Thompson, I. C, F.L.S., F.R.M.S., Woodstock, Waverleyrd., Liverpool.
Thorold, Edward S., Larkby, Exeter.
Todd, Mrs., Maclean, Clarence River, New South Wales.
Tooth, Rev. Arthur, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville Park, Lewisham, S.E.
Thurstan, Frederick, W., M.A., La Martmiere,Lucknow, India.
Townley, Miss F. M., 47, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Trench, J. Townsend, J.P., Kenmare, Ireland.
Trevor, Rev. Thomas Warren, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris.
Tuker, Miss Mildred A.R., 4, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, N.W.
Tyrer, Mrs. W., Woodleigb, Prescot.
Underwood, Rev. Canon C. W., M.A., Histon Vicarage, Cambridge.
Vailati, Professor Giovanni, Crema, Italy.
Venman, Hezekiah, 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
Venn, J.,D.Sc, F. R.S., Summerleigh, Chine Crescent-rd., Bournemouth.
Verrall, Mrs., Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3, Waterloo-place. North Shields.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome.
Vincent, Maria Lady, Villa Flora, Cannes, France.
Vivian, H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Vores, Arthur, M.R.C.S., 8, Mansfield-street, Cavendish-square, W.
Walker, Reginald T., 1, Furnival's Inn, Holborn, E.C.
Warburton, Rev. Walter T., M.A., The Vicarage, Rock Ferry.
Birkenhead.
Ward, The Hon. Miss, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
Wardrop, Mrs., 10, Lower Belgrave-street, Eaton-square, S.W.
Warrand, Mrs., Bught, Inverness, N.B.
AVarter, Mrs. Tatham, 10, Upper Phillimore-gardens, Kensington, W.
Wassell, H. A., F.R.A.S.,Addenbrook Villa,01d Swinford,Stourbridge.
WATeRhouseiC.H.,M.D.,56, KarlLudwig Strasse,Ober-Dobling,Vienna.
Watson, Mrs. W. C, 39, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Wedd, N., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
Wemyss, Miss A., Washwell House, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
432 List of Members and Associates.
Whkbry, G. E., F.R.C.S., Corpus-buildings, Cambridge.
Whishaw, Mhs. Bernhard, 27, Upper Bedford-place, W.C.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Maltitano, Palermo, Sicily.
Whitehead, John, Esplanade, Guernsey.
"VVhitridge, Frederick W., University Club, New York, U.S.A.
Wigan, W. L., Larkfield, near Maidstone.
Willan, Miss Florence M., 50, Weymouth-street, Portland-place, W.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, Lady, Llanfoist, Clifton Down, Bristol.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 63, Queen Victoria-street, E.C.
Williams, Rev. Nelson G., M.A., East Meon, Petersfield, Hants.
Williams, Miss S., The Reservoir, Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
Wilson, Herbert W., The Woodlands, Athlone.
Windeyer, Tub Hon. Chief Justice, Judge's Chambers, High Court
of Justice, Sydney, Australia.
Wingfield, Mrs. Edward, 40, Albion-street, Hyde Park, W.
Witherby, Arthur George, B.A., 117a, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Withers, John James, B.A., 2, Museum Chambers, Bury-street
Bloomsbury, W.C.
Wittig, Gregor C, 2, Kornerstrasse, Leipzig.
Wood, Rev. Canon, M.A., Newent Rectory, Gloucestershire.
Woodhead, John E., 171, West Washington-street, Chicago, U.S.A.
Wright, Arthur J., M.A., Kensington Palace Mansions, London, W.
Wyld, George, M.D., Fieldhead, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Young, Rev. Charles John, F.R.A.S., Stafford-place, Halifax.
Young, Professor William H, 67, Kriegstrasse, Karlsruhe-in-Baden.
Youngman, Miss, Hillside, St. Margaret's, Ipswich.
No List of Members and Associates having been published in 1891, the
present List includes some who belonged to the Society during last year, but do
not remain in itfor 1892.
N.B.—Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi,
London, W.C.
List of Members and Associates. 433
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
(January, 1892.)
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except when another Country is named.
MEMBERS.
Blackmar, Paul, 406, Lumber Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
Carnochan, Gouverneur M., 1, Nassau-st., New York City, N.Y.
Cory, C. B., 8, Arlington-street, Boston, Mass.
Craig, John W., Box 291, San Bernardino, Cal.
Gale, Harlow S., 75, Sternwarten-strasse, 111r, Leipzig.
Holt, Henry, 29, West 23rcl-street, New York City, N.Y.
Hudson, Woodward, Concord, Mass.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 290, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 142, E. 18th-street, New York.
Logan, W. S., 58, William-street, New York City, N.Y.
Saw yer, Hon. Chas. H. Dover, New Hampshire.
Smith, Mrs. Mott, 101, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, N.Y.
Stokes, J. N. P., 229, Madison-avenue, New York.
Sutherland, J. G., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Woodman, Walter, M.D., 64, Sparks-street, Cambridge, Mass.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
Alexander, Mrs. Kezia E., Birmingham, Mich.
Rees, Mrs. Runtz, Wayside, Scarsdale, New York.
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Skiddy, Kansas.
ASSOCIATES.
Adams, Mrs. George E., 530, Belden-avenue, Chicago, I11.
Albree, John, Junr., 122, Concord-street, Boston, Mass.
Albree, Joseph, 20, Market-street, Allegheny, Pa.
Alexander, Don, 513, McOallie-avenue, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Allen, Rev. T. E.,63, Glenham-street, Providence, Rhode Island.
Almy, Francis, Buffalo, N.Y.
Andrew, Miss Elizabeth L., Old Colony Hill, Hingham, Mass.
List of Members and Associates.
Andrews, Mrs. J. A., 307, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Annes, A. L., 416, 3rd-avenue S., Wausau, Wis.
Arnold, J. N., 19, College-street, Providence, R.I.
Auel, Mrs. C, 65, Leffeits-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Avery, Miss M. H., 137, Academy-st., Poughkeepsie, New York.
Ayer, J. C, Puritan Club, 50, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Ayers, George D., Maiden, Mass.
Baker, Alfred L., 1,712, Michigan-avenue, Chicago, I11.
Baker, Dr. Smith, Winston-building, Utica, N.Y.
Baldwin, Henry C, 172, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Bancroft, Mrs. John C, 61, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Banker, Mrs. George H., 46, Sterling place, Brooklyn, New York-
Barnes, T. W., c/oH. P. Starbuck, 62, Wall-street, New York.
Bautlett, James W., 211, Central Avenue, Dover, N.H.
Beale, C. W., Arden, North Carolina.
Bigelow, Horace P., Waterville, Oneida County, NY.
Bigelow, Dr. W. S., 60, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Blackford, A., 322, South Main-street, Findlay, Ohio.
Blackmar, Gen. W.W., 70, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass,
Blake, Francis, Keewaydin, Weston, Auburndale, P.O., Mass.
Blodgett, C, M.D., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Bowditch, C. P., 28, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Bowditch, Professor H. P., Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass
Bradley, Mrs. W. L., Hingham, Mass.
Braggiotti, Isidore, 208, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Briggs, Dr. E. C, 125, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass,
Brimmer, Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
Brooks, Alexander C, c/o P.R.R., Jersey City, N.J.
Brooks, Rev. Phillips, 233, Clarendon-street, Boston, Mass.
Brown, Delass S., 309, Main-street, Peoria, I11.
Brown, John F., 16, Baldwin-street, Newton, Mass.
Brown, Mrs. J. F., 16, Baldwin-street, Newton, Mass.
Brown, Wilbur C, P. O. Box 2,684, Boston, Mass.
Browne, G. H, 16, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Bruen, Mrs., 79, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Brunt, Cornelius Van, 74, Courtlandt-street, New York.
Brush, Miss Helen C, 71, West 47th-street, New York.
Buffett, Dr. E. P., 520, Bergen-avenue, Jersey City Heights, N.J.
Bullaud, Dr. W. N., 89, Marlborough-street,' Boston, Mass.
Bundy, Colonel John C, 92, La Salle-street, Chicago, 111.
Burge, Miss Marie L., 132, Montague-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Butler, Miss Virginia, Stockbridge, Mass.
Carey, A. A., 1, Brimmer-street, Boston, Mass.
List of Members and Associates. 435
Carey, Mrs. Arthur, 1, Brimmer-street, Boston, Mass.
Garleton, Will M., 420, Greene-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
Carpenter, Frank B., Tiffany Building, 337, 4th-avenue, New York.
Carr, Lucien, Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio.
Catlin, Captain R., Soldiers' Home, Washington, D.C.
Chanler, Mrs. W., c/o Messrs. Morris & Steele, 16, Exchange-place,
New York.
Cheney, Dr. Fred. E., Hotel Bristol, Boston, Mass.
Chenowith, Mrs. C. Van D., 64, East 86th-street, New York.
Claypole, Professor E. W., 60, Buchtis-avenue, Akron, Ohio.
Cleaves, N. Porter, 3, Central Wharf, Boston, Mass.
Cochran, Mrs. A. P., 1,306, First street, Louisville, Ky.
Coffin, Charles A., 178, Devonshire-street, Boston, Mass.
Coffin, C. P., 209, Washington-street, Room 3, Boston, Mass.
Cone, J. W., Union, Wilson Co., Texas.
Cook, Mrs. Ellen K., 220, Main-street, Davenport, Iowa.
Cooper, James, P.O. Box 1,942, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Cope, Professor Edward D., 2,102, Pine-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Corning, Mrs. M. S., 122, State-street, Portland, Maine.
Cotton, Mary H., M.D., 200, West 83rd-street, New York.
Cowles, Dr. E., McLean Asylum, Somerville, Mass.
Crafts, James M., 59, Marlborough-strett, Boston, Mass.
Crafts, Mrs. J. M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Craigie, Ernest, 134, Peel-street, Montreal, Canada.
Cressey, John P., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pennsylvania.
Crocker, Mrs. F. E., P. O. Box 59, Columbus Junction, Iowa.
Crosby, Professor W. O, Society Natural History, Boston, Mass.
Crosby, Mrs. Eleanor F., Garden-road, Brookline, Mass.
Croswell, James G., 6e, 45th-street, New York.
Curtis, Mrs. Greely S., 28, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Curtis, Professor John G., 127, East 35th-street, NewYork City, N.Y.
Curtis, W. E., 14, West 20th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Davidson, Thomas, 239, West 105th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Davis, Samuel G., 120, Highland-street, Roxbury, Mass.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Longwood, Mass.
Dietrick, Mrs. Ellen B., 176, Huntin^ton-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dimmock, George, P. O. Box 15, Canobia Lake, N.H.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., 11, Prospect-street, East Orange, New Jersey.
Dodge, J. T., 340, VV. Washington-ave., Madison, Wis.
Dole, Nathan H., " Hedgecote," Glen-road, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Donald, Rev. Dr. E. Winchester, 7, VV. 10th Street, New York.
Dorr, Mrs. C. H., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dorb, George B., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
436 List of Members and Associates.
Drown, T. Pickering, 351, Congress-street, Boston, Mass.
Duncan, W. A., Ph.D., Congregational House, Boston, Mass.
Dunham, Miss E. L., 37, East 36th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Dunham, Dr. W. R., Troy, N.H
Eddy, Miss Mary E., 265, Benefit-st., Providence, Rhode Island.
Edmunds, Albert J., 553, North 16th-street, Philadelphia.
Edmunds, Miss L., c/o R. Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Edwards, Mrs. Mary H, Keene, N.H.
Ellis, Miss Lucy, 330, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Errain, Mrs. Charlotte, 118, East 26th-street, New York.
Esterly, Mrs. G. M., Whitewater, Wisconsin.
Esty, Professor William C, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Evans, Mrs. Edgar B., 80, Chester-square, Boston, Mass.
Evans, Mrs. Edwin T., 189, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Miss M. S., 80, Chester-square, Boston, Mass.
Evans, Frederick, Junr., Netcark Daily Advertiser, Newark, N.J.
Evans, Mrs. Glendower, 12, Otis-place, Boston, Mass.
Everett, Professor C. C, 53, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Everett, Torrey. Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Felton, Thomas C, The Charlesgate, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass,
Ferrv, D.M., Detroit, Mich.
Fields, Mrs. James T., 148, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Fillmore, Dr. C. W., 305, Point-street, Providence, R.I.
Fletcher, J. B., 31, Thayer Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
Fluhrer, Rev. Charles, D.D., Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Foote, Dr. E. B., 120, Lexington-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Forbes, John M., Milton, Mass.
Ford, Professor Darius R., D.D., Elmira College, New York.
Frothingham, Dr. Langdon, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb.
Frothingham, O. B., 118, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Frothingham, P. R., Eighth-street, New Bedford, Mass.
Fuller, Miss S. E., 124, West 23rd-street, New York.
Fullerton, C. W., 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago.
Fullerton, Professor G. S.,4,116, Spruce-street,West Philadelphia, Pa.
Gage, J. Lyman, 470, North State-street, Chicago, 111.
Gardiner, Dr. Edward G., Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Gardiner, Professor H. N, 23, Craft's-avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Gardner, Mrs. John L., 152, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gerrish, Dr. F. H, Portland, Maine.
(Jhost, A. M., Room 16, Ghost Block, Denver, Col.
Gibbens, Jos. M., 153, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Giles, Mrs. Grace M., 19, Baltimore Block, Atlanta, Georgia.
Gill, Wm. Fearing, 3, East 86th-street, New York.
List of Members and Associates. 437
Oilman, Benjamin I., 62, Cedar-street, New York.
Goodnow, H. R., 32, Remsen-street, Brooklyn, New York.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederick, 250, Fifth-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Goodwin, Warren C, West-town Boarding School, West-town, Pa.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gridley, J. N, Virginia, I11.
Griffing, Mrs. C. R. R O. Box, 14 White Plains, N.Y,
Groot, Mrs. E. K. de, c/o Miss Hawley, Atlanta-st., Stamford, Conn.
Grover, Rev. G. W., Nashua, New Hampshire.
Grower, George G., Ansonia Brass and Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Hale, George S., 5, Exeter-street, Boston, Mass.
Hall, Miss Harriet M., 45, William-street, Providence, R.I.
Hall, Professor James, New York State Museum, Albany, N.Y.
Hall, Dr. T. P., Clark University, Worcester, Mass.
Hamblet, Eugene, Box 12, Dracut, Mass.
Hardaway, W. A., M.D., 2,710, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harden, Judge William D., Savannah, Georgia.
Harris, Rev. J.A.,D.D., St. Paul's Rectory, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
Harris, William T., LL.D., 914, 23rd-street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Harwood, C. H, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, 150, Waterman-street, Providence, R.T.
Haslett, O. O, 403, Spear-street, San Francisco, Cal.
Hawkins, William M., 6, Coit Block, Buffalo, New York,
Haworth, George D., 20, Groveland Park, Chicago, I11.
Haynes, Henry W., 239, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Heard, John, Junr., Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Hedges, Mrs. Sidney M., 76, Highland-street, Roxbury, Mass.
Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Hill, Mrs. A. S., 117, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Hoffman, Professor F. S., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
Hogg, Mrs. John, 50, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Holbrook, Levi, P. O. Box 536, New York.
Holbrook, Dr. M. L, 46, East 21st-street, New York City, N.Y.
Holmes, Rev. Samuel V. V., Richfield Springs, N.Y.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, Spuyten Duyvil, New York.
Hooper, Miss E. R., 141, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Hooper, N. L., 16, Louisberg-square, Boston, Mass.
Hurley, A.M., cornerof Firstand Monmouth-sts., Independence,Oregon.
Hutchinson, Dr. Mahlon, 103, State-street, Chicago, I11.
Hyslop, 223, East 11th-street, New York.
Jackson, Mrs. E. B., 244, Dallas-street, Houston, Texas.
James, Dr. H. F., 2,627, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
James, Professor William, 95, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
438 List of Members and Associates.
Jayne, H. La Barre, 505, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Jewett, Miss S. O., Berwick, Maine.
.Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405, Main-street, Worcester, Mass.
Judah, J. H., 545, Shelby-street, Memphis, Tenn.
Kehew, Mrs. William B., 317, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Kimball, Miss Hannah P., 325, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Knowles, Edward R., West Sutton, Mass.
Kuhn, Mrs. Hartman, 36, Commonwealth avenne, Boston, Mass.
Lang, B. J., Messrs. Chickering and Sons, Boston, Mass.
Langley, Professor, S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Latham, Miss V. A , B.Sc, 58, EastUniversity-ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.
Lathrop, John, 10, Gloucester-street, Boston, Mass.
Lawrence, Mrs. Amory A., 59, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 142, E. 18th-street, New York.
Lek, Mrs. Mary H., c/o L. Hinedale, Esq., Carlisle Buildings, Cincin
nati, Ohio.
Leonard, Thomas, 028, 22nd-strcet, Philadelphia.
Leonhardt, J. S., M.Sc. M.D., 1,452, O-street, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Libbe, A. B., M.D., Haller Block, Seattle, Washington.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Librarian, Cutting's Free Library, Lunenburg, Vermont.
Librarian, Enoch Piatt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Nebraska University, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111.
Librarian, Public Library, Denver, Colorado.
Librarian, Rochester Theological Seminary, Rochester, New York.
Librarian, San Francisco Free Public Library, San Francisco, Cal.
Librarian, Union Theological Seminary, 700, Park-avenue, New York.
Librarian, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee.
Littlefield, J., c/o White & Co., 12th & Chestnut-sts., Philadelphia.
Livermore, Mrs. Mary, Box 565, 9, Emerson-street, Melrose, Mass.
Lockwood, Colonel, J. S., 146, Franklin-street, Boston, Mass.
Lodge, Mrs. John E., 31, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Long, George E. J., Jos. Dixon Crucible Company, Jersey City, N.J.
Long, Rev. J. D., Babylon, Long Island, New York.
Lounsberry, C. A., Fargo, North Dakota.
Lukens, Dr. Anna, 1,068, Lexington-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Macdonald, Dr. R. C, 34, Parmenter-street, Boston, Mass.
McHenry, Mrs. J. Howard, Pikesville, Balto. Co., Ind.
Macqueary, Rev. Howard, Canton, Ohio.
Macy, Mrs. Arthur, 17, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Marshall, Henry Rutgers, 74, Wall-street, New York City, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates. 439
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, West 58th-street, New York.
Mason, Miss Ellen F., 1, "Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, Miss Ida, 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, H. L., 39, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C, 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, New York.
McGeb, W. J., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.
McIlwraith, H. P., Muskegon, Mich.
McVicker, J. H., Mc Vicker's Theatre, Chicago, I11.
Mendenhall, Nereus, M.D., Guilford College, N.C.
Miller, Mrs. G. S., Peterborough, Madison Co., New York.
Millet, Josiah B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Milliken, George, 3,614, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Mills, Professor C. K., 1,909, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Minot, Professor Charles S., 22, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Moore, Dr. F., Ill, East 45th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Newcomb, C. A., 1,145, Woodward-avenue, Detroit, Mich.
Newcomb, Professor Simon, Washington, D.C.
Newcomb, W. L., Taunton, Mass.
Newell, Miss Lavinia H., 255, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York City.
Nichols, Miss A. B., 211, St. James's-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Nims, F. A., Muskegon, Mich.
Norris, Hon. C. H., Marion, Ohio.
Nunn, Dr. Richard J., 119 1-2, York-street, Savannah, Georgia.
Osborn, General F. A., 236, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Page, Dr. F. W., Hotel Cluny, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510, Delaware avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Park, Miss M. P., 117, West 49th-street, New York.
Parker, G. H., Bank of Montreal, Brockville, Ontario, Canada.
Parker, William L., 339, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Parkman, Miss M. R., Hotel Huntington, Huntington-ave.,Boston, Mass.
Peabody, John E., 183, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Peckham, Dr. Grace, 25, Madison-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, I11.
Pedigo, Dr. Lewis G., Lock Box 259, Roanoke, Virginia.
Pellew, George, Katonah, N.Y.
Pendleton, Miss, 1,522, Locust-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Penfield, Sophia, M.D., Danbury, Conn.
Perkins, Franklin R., 294, Linwood-avenuc, Buffalo, New York
Perkins, Mrs. A. T., 112, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Perkins, Mrs. E. H., 5, East 40th-street, New York.
Perrin, Mrs. E. O., Stanton, Florida.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., Forest Hill-street, Jamaica Plain.
Phelps, Orwin A., Gaylord, Mich.
440 List of Members and Associates.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C, Junr., cor. Berkeley & Marlboro'-sts., Boston, Mass.
Platt, J. C, 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Plummer, J. W., 52, East Lake-street, Chicago, I11.
Preston, Mrs. William G., Hotel Berkeley, Boston, Mass.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 71, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Pumpelly, Raphael, Newport, R.I.
Putnam, Miss Annie C, 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 24, Quincy-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Rand, Mrs. J. L., 49, Kirkland-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Ransom, Frank H., 1,298, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Ransom, Paul C, 1,298, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Richardson, Dr. W. L., 225, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Ricker, James W., City Collector, City Hall, Boston, Mass.
Rivers, Miss Mary, Milton, Mass.
Robbins, Miss A. M., 7, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Robbins, Miss H. L., 116, West 21st-street, New York City, N.Y.
Rodman, Miss Emma, 174, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Rolfe, Alfred G., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Rollings, Rev. Henry, Manitowaning, Ontario, Canada.
Ropes, John C, 99, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Rotch, Miss Joanna, Milton, Mass.
Royce, Professor Josiah, 103, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Rumsey, Mrs. B.C., cor. Delaware-ave. ife Tracey-st., Buffalo, New York.
Ryan, Carroll, 289, St. Martin-street, Montreal, Canada.
Salter, W. M., c/o S. Burns Weston, 1,602 Chestnut-street, Philadelphia.
Sampson, Charles E., 193, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Sargent, Mrs. Winthrop, 207, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Savage, Rev. M. J., 25, Concord-square, Boston, Mass.
Sawyer, G. C, Utica Academy, Utica, N.Y.
Sawyer, Roswell I)., 58, West 57th-street, New York.
Scudder, Samuel H., Cambridge, Mass.
Sears, John D., Upper Sandusky, Ohio.
Shaw, Miss Emma G., 84, Huntingdon-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. Quincy A., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Shed, Z., 832, 17th-street, Denver, Colorado.
Sheets, John C, Cincinnati Sanatorium, College Hill, Ohio.
Shimmin, Miss Blanche, 229, Beacon-streot, Boston, Mass.
Sims, John O, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
Smith, H. W., 410, Laurel-avenue, St. Paul, Minnesota.
Smith, Francis, Muskegon, Mich.
List of Members and Associates. 441
Smith, Mrs. Franklin W., Saratoga Springs, New York.
Smith, Horace J., C, East Penn, Germantown, Philadelphia.
Smith, R. Pearsall, 44, Grosvenor-road, London, S.W., England.
Smith, William Hawley, Peoria, I11.
Stansell, Mrs. E. T., A-l, High School-terrace, Denver, Colorado.
Stebbins, Walter G., City Hospital, Boston, Mass.
Steedman, J. C. W., A.M., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Stone, Charles W., 68, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Mrs. Richard, Junr.,18, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Colonel W. L., Jersey City, N.J.
Storer, Albert, 40, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Strauss, Albert, 124, West 97th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Street, Miss Ida M., 78e, East Washington-street, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Sturtevant, S. C.y 105, Washington-street, Hartford, Conn.
Sumner, Dr. A. M., Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Talbot, Edward A., 2, Elmo-street, Dorchester, Mass.
Tappan, Miss M..A., 247, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Taylor, Edward Wyllys, 43, Hancock-street, Boston, Mass.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., 25, E. 77th-street, New York.
Thayer, Mrs. S. V. R., 191, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Thompson, Dr. W., 1,426, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thorndike, S. Lothrop, 2, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Thorpe, Joseph G., Junr., 115, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Tickell, J. A. Arscott, Narcoossee, Florida.
Totten, Mrs. Enoch, 1,708, I-street,Washington, D.C.
Towner, Judge J. W., Santa Ana, California.
Toy, Professor C. H., 7, Lowell-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Turnbull, Miss K. E., 113, East 39th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Turner, Miss Mary J., 11, Faxon-avenue, Quincy, Mass.
Tutton, Mrs. Sara, 2,318, Jay St., Denver, Colorado.
Tweedy, Edmund, P.O. Box 53, Newport, Rhode Island.
Twinch, Frederick, 455, West 57th-street, New York.
Tyler, J. C, Magnolia Ave., cor. Olive St., Knoxville, Tenn.
Tyson, Mrs. George, 314, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., Elmira College, Elmira, N.Y.
Van Norden, Theodore L., 16, West 48th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Van Slyke, J. M., 23, North Pinckney-street, Madison, Wis.
Vaughan, Miss Virginia, c/o G. F. Donthill, Esq., 286, Fifth-avenue,
New York.
Wake, C. Staniland, 349, North Clark-street, Chicago.
Ward, W. E., Port Chester, N.Y.
Warren, Dr. J. W., Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.
Watson, Sereno, Cambridge, Mass.
Watson, Professor William, 107, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
2 G
442 List of Members and Associates.
Watson, Dh. William H., 720, Genesse-street, Utica, N.Y.
Watts, H. M., " The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Webster, David L., 332, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Westbrook, Dr. R. B., 1,707, Oxford-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wheeler, William, Concord, Mass.
White, Professor Frances E., 1,533, North 15th-st., Philadelphia, Pa.
White, Henry G., 32, Irving-place, Buffalo, New York.
White, James T., 765, Broadway, New York.
White, Mrs. Florence D., 765, Broadway, New York.
Whitman, Russell, 1,007, The Tacoma, Chicago, I11.
Whiton, Rev. James M., Ph.D., 18, W. 9th-street, New York City.
Whittier, John Greenleaf, Danvers, Mass.
Williams, Rev. W. H., 14, Chestnut-street, Wakefield, Mass.
Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., 222, Michigan-avenue, Chicago, I11.
Wilson, Mrs. John L., Box 19, Framingham, Mass.
Winter, Mrs. W., 17, 3rd-ave., New Brighton, Staten Island, New York.
Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Woodcock, Percy, " Waterniche," Brockville, Canada.
Wright, James A., 1,127, Sherbrook-street, Montreal, Canada.
Wright, Dr. J. P., Lt.-Col., Med. Depmt , Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 36, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
