{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1richard_e_nde_9648.html","mytitle":"Richard E NDE 9648","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard E NDE 9648  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5209 Richard E NDE 9648  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On the afternoon of September 21, 2021, I fell ill at work. I was experiencing chest pains, shortness of breath, and numbness. I tried to walk, and suddenly collapsed. Paramedics arrived and treated me and stabilized my pulse. I was transported to a hospital emergency room. I was awake and responsive. 
  
  Shortly after being admitted to the hospital emergency room, I went into cardiac arrest. The staff began CPR  immediately.  When my wife arrived, my body was limp and I was unresponsive.   I had an intense  feeling of conflict and chaos. I struggled to know what to do and had no idea of what was about to happen. Suddenly, I was lying down and convulsing. Moments later, I was feeling the chaos again. I would find out later that this was the first time I was shocked with a defibrillator.
  
  I started to feel a peace  off in the distance. It is difficult to describe. Imagine the site of morning or evening rays beaming from the clouds. That type of light and the majestic feeling that sight provides  were on one side. Yet, I could feel my wife needing me on the other side. I felt torn. I felt like I was in chaos.
  
  Suddenly, I was once again convulsing in out-of-control agony. I had been shocked a second time. Moments later, the feeling of chaotic conflict returned. It was even more intense than the first time. I could feel my wife calling for me. But, I was tired of the chaos and I just wanted peace.   
  
I started to move towards the lights; when suddenly,  Grandmother appeared before me. I asked her to take me away with her so the chaos would end. She smiled at me. She raised up her hand and wagged her index finger back and forth. ‘No, no, no, Ricky. You have to go back’. Ricky was her pet name for me. I responded, ‘I don't like this.’ She said, ‘I know.’ 
  
 Suddenly, I was convulsing again. This time, I was present in my body and  looking up. I had been shocked a third, fourth, and fifth time. 
    
    Oddly enough, my wife said from her perspective, there was no chaos or conflict in the room at all. It was quite the opposite. It was organized, methodical, and orderly. CPR was performed for 55 minutes. I was shocked a total of 6 times, with the last shock to correct my pulse.        

Background Information:       

Gender: 	Male    

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/21/2021    

NDE Elements:       

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Heart attackCPR given    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)       

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing    

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was aware each time I was shocked with a defibrillator. I knew my wife was near me.    I lost awareness of my body    

    How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   I felt about my normal alertness throughout most of the experience.    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In between being shocked    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No       

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     After each shock, it was cloudy, but then became clear after a few moments would pass    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It would be loud yet muffled, then still, as if I felt more than I heard things.    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No    

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I moved into what I would describe as crepuscular rays. That is where I encountered my grandmother.    

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them    

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my grandmother. She passed away in 2013.    

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light    

    Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes.   Crepuscular rays    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     As I moved towards the light, I felt like we (my grandmother and I) were floating in some sort of room, but the walls were light.    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, frustration, confusion. When I decided I wanted peace and saw my grandmother, I was happy and ready to move.    

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness    

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature    

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No         

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No         

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No         

    Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   When my grandmother told me I had to go back, I said ‘Okay’,    

God, Spiritual and Religion:       

    What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I spent over half of my life as a Catholic. In 2008. I tried a few other Christian churches. None of them really connected with me. I have spent the last 13 years being more spiritual than religious. I practice gratitude daily.    

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No         

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic       

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience         

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No         

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No       

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     In my mind, there are only three possibilities for what happened to me:    1) The Catholics have it right - our loved ones are waiting for us and we will be reunited with them in heaven    2) The universe knew exactly what persona to take on to get me to listen    3) I hallucinated    I go with #2    

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Every time I have told this story to someone, I quantify with my interpretation.     Whatever is waiting for me after death knew exactly what person I would listen to in the next life to get me to come back.    

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I was always aware of my wife wanting me to ‘Come Back’    

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am more patient. I am more understanding. I strive for deeper connections with the people I love.    

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am closer to my family members than I had been in times passed.    

After the NDE:       

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is very difficult to express the feeling of being torn and directionless. I start crying everytime I describe it in detail.    

    How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience. I remember the experience far more vividly than the hour before it happened. It will always be with me. The 48 hours following the experience are blurry, with some memories. That 55 minutes is pretty vivid though.    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No         

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my grandmother again. I miss her. Knowing my wife was able to make me feel her presence was awesome!    

    Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared it with multiple people. Most people call me Miracle Man or Mr. Miracle now.    I remember this once I became somewhat alert again. I had not yet learned to walk again. A nurse was pushing me down a hallway to go to a lab for a test. She asked If I remembered what happened to me. I told her that I did. She asked me to share it with her, and I did.     She began to cry. She thanked me, and asked if I needed anything. I said that I would love to feel the sun on my face. She pushed me into a courtyard and let me feel the sunshine for a few minutes.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No       

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was there. I know it was real    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was there. I know it was real    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I get flashbacks sometimes. Particularly about being shocked.                                   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1richard_e_nde_9648.html