{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1richard_b_nde_144.html","mytitle":"Richard B NDE 144","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard B NDE 144  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard B NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1453 Richard B NDE 144  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on my way to work, 1:30 in the afternoon, temperature was 105 degrees, I was riding my motorcycle, car turned at last second, I hit car approximately two feet from front bumper (passenger side), traveling at a high rate of speed. Accident resulted in both femurs being broken (multiple fractures); left femur was shattered into over one hundred pieces (x-rays prove that); right femur broken in four places; both arms broke; collapsed right lung; bleeding profusely from left femoral artery. I was rushed to local hospital by ground ambulance, local hospital not able to treat my injuries -- transferred by air ambulance to Augusta, Georgia hospital. Was being given two units of blood at a time, one in arm, the other into jugular vein in neck, to replace the blood I was losing. Attendant was 'squeezing' the blood bags and rolling them in a manner like you would roll up a tube of toothpaste -- to increase flow of blood into my body. I had 'no' blood pressure due to massive bleeding in left leg, was told before I was loaded onto helicopter that, 'You will not live to see Augusta,' was offered my 'last rites' by priest on duty. I declined, being that I am not Catholic. While en-route to Augusta (by helicopter) the attendant in rear of helicopter was talking to the emergency room that was expecting me in Augusta. I heard him numerous times inform them the 'victim has NO blood pressure.'

Shortly after flight began, I remember the pain going away. A feeling of peace came over me, and I remember 'leaving' my body, and starting 'through' a tunnel of multicolored lights. I was suddenly very happy, calm, comfortable, and happy in the knowledge that I was going 'into' heaven. Just before I reached the end of the tunnel, I was stopped by the voice of my father (who had been dead five years at the time) telling me I must go back, that my mother needed me (for what I don't know). I replied that I didn't want to go 'back', but my father's voice insisted.  The next thing that happened was I was looking down on my body in the helicopter -- as the attendant worked on my body, trying to 'save' my life.

I saw (and heard) him pick up the radio microphone and inform the emergency room that they should 'scrub the crash team, the victim has expired'. I knew he was talking about me. About that same time, I remember 'feeling' the pain come back into my body.  I knew that I was 'back' from the dead. I opened my eyes and told the attendant that 'I am not dead' he almost freaked out, picked up the microphone and told the emergency room that the 'victim is still alive. I repeat - victim is alive.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2, 1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   Was involved in automobile/motorcycle accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See main narrative.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very alert, very aware of my medical condition.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just my father's voice and then, after returning, the sounds of the helicopter, etc.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Was met by the sound of my father's voice.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Multicolored.  The tunnel had 'white' light at the end.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the tunnel, was very cool (as in comfortable on a HOT day) sweet smell.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, happiness, followed by anger when I had to return to my body.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I learned later (years later) that I was of some assistance to my mother, in her life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I did NOT want to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe in life after death, at least as far as what I experienced.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part -- talking with my father. Worst part -- coming back to my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people believe that I was just 'in shock'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Let's talk -- via email, then perhaps we can 'discover' something I may have left out.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1richard_b_nde_144.html