{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1richard_h_nde_7487.html","mytitle":"Richard H NDE 7487","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard H NDE 7487  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3824 Richard H NDE 7487  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving my mother to work and I exited the freeway in Los Angeles.  I looked to my left and there were two headlights going 80 miles an hour. I was hit and killed instantly.  

I felt my body being crushed and I saw my mother being thrown into the dash. I saw a light.  The car began to follow the light; it traveled about 300 yards from the first impact at the intersection. I opened my eyes and did not know how I was alive. I could move my eyes and one arm so I turned off the car.  I told my mother to get out of the car. She could barely hear me because I was stamped under the dash. She got out and I looked out at the night sky and died again.  

I went to hell in pain and away from God. I would tell more yet I have written a story about the pain like a comet in space and the tail of the comet is your screams forever and ever. Then, I was in heaven and was in a place that words are not enough to tell of this place. I asked to see God while I was there.  

In walked a person that I knew and he knew me as a close friend. I had golden-boarded clothes and a sword while I was talking to God. He was pure and perfect in every way.  He was Middle Eastern and had a black hair and a beard. The flesh was of all races and I knew that this person (God) was all powerful.  He looked at all humans that loved him.  I was talking about earth and we both looked to my left where everything is not man-made.  The darkened pit and earth was down there. Then, I looked at his beautiful garments and on one edge of the garments was diamond-trimmed with one piece that was not man-made. I was amazed and looked back at God in his eyes and then I opened my eyes.  

Outside of the car, was my mother and she was screaming, ‘He is alive.’  She told me later that she heard God speaking, saying ‘lo I will always be with you.’ She ran back to the car, away from the paramedics and she saw Jesus Christ on my face. 

After that, the people at the scene rushed in, grabbed me, and stood me up.  I saw the world differently; I could see sin and many things that were changed. I went to the hospital and walked out two hours later without breaking a bone.  Later, I saw a cross on a church and knew the man was Jesus.  The man I saw was alive and there is a different symbol for Christ.  There is much more and police and hospital records prove this is the case.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  JANUARY 31,1983

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Heart attack.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Auto accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was dead, in pain and then out of pain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In heaven and earth

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Light like a tunnel, still follow it

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     GOD  Everyone that died.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   All at once

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The light

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All of them

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     A better world on earth also.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Change of matter

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My body was gone, crushed and I knew it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   AVERAGE CATHOLIC, SOMETIMES AT CHURCH .

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     They’re better.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   SAME

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I love people more.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Many thoughts

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   GOD

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     IN HEAVEN NOT ON EARTH WE DON'T GET TO COME BACK

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     WHY DO WE BREATH

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     GOD IS ALL GOOD AND LOVE FOR ALL HUMANS HIS PRIZE.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can move air a little.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only briefly with others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       God is all good and love for all humans is his prize. In heaven, not on earth, we don't get to come back. I talked with God.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1richard_h_nde_7487.html