{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/richard_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Richard C Probable NDE 9439","mylang":"de"}
          	        Richard C Probable NDE 9439  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Richard C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5071 Richard C Probable NDE 9439  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    From lying down on the couch to take a nap, I woke up and couldn't move. When I unsuccessfully tried to make myself get up, my eyes went fixed and sight went black. When I stopped hearing, I found myself against the ceiling looking down. I could see the whole room and hear everyone talking. I looked to my left and saw a key on top of the kitchen cabinet that we didn't know was there. Slowly floated through the roof and raised above the house. I could see the whole area around town. 

Then I started moving faster and faster and could see the curve of the earth.  At that time, my body went away and the spark that is our spirit was all that was left. I continued to go outward at an increasing rate; traveling an immense distance until I saw a cluster of sparks that were under the edge of a clear shelf. The shelf was like glass, but not like glass. It was almost clear but not completely. The shelf looked like it was harder than glass would be. 

Two people were on the shelf; one in a large chair and the other standing beside it. Just before I got there I was informed that it wasn't my turn and I had to go back. It's not like I heard the words, I just knew them. The words were part of my thoughts. It was like I know my hand is at the end of my arm kind of thing. The sparks were other people that had already made it and were waiting to go above the shelf. 

I had no idea of this concept before this. I have seen many things and done many things since then. This event changed my life. 

When I was told to go back I went back so fast it was instantaneous. After I got up I went to the cabinet and got the key from on top and showed it to the family. My wife was afraid of the event so much that she wouldn't talk about it. Some days later, I went to the doctor for some tests to see why I was having so much trouble with my blood pressure. After a stress test, the blood pressure went down to 80 over 40 and the staff at the hospital showed fear on their faces. The doctor ordered the operating room made ready.   
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1992  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         I had a bout with low blood pressure.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Was having many issues with low blood pressure. the wife checked my blood pressure once when I was on the couch a few days before this event, it was 60 over 30 and I could still ask her to check it. My blood pressure was dropping so low I couldn't function.  This is the third time out of body. I had many almost-out-of-body experiences from the time I was about 7 years old.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  I saw the key and later retrieved it.  I also  heard the family talking  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Like when running and I went past the wall or  like being startled  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I woke up to find I couldn't move  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     about the same  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Always been hard of hearing but could hear just fine during the experience.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Became aware that the sparks were people that made it  to the other side
  
Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light from the out sparks  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     The cluster is where we wait if we are the right kind of spirit, ie. one that is of good nature. When the spirit is in a state that is ready for that  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       peace  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     While in the cluster I had total knowledge  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  When I got close the the shelf, I was made to go back  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Believed in god but no affiliations.  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Closer to God in all ways  

  What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian.   Graduate Victory Bible College and working to start ministry  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I knew God was real, but other than that, it was all pretty new to me  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I knew God was real, but I didn't understand just how much God was involved in day to day stuff. I am much more forgiving.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   Saw the sparks in the cluster,  saw the beings on the shelf, and heard the words to go back to my earthly body.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   The two beings on the shelf were God and Christ  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The cluster is all who are able to go there.  It was clear to me that not all get to go that far. Some stay here; some are doomed to torment;  some move on from the cluster to better places, and  some come back to do it again.  All is connected - every rock, tree, plant, animal, planet, star, etc, etc,  
  
  During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There was no doubt. It was God was in the chair on the shelf  
  
Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   While there it was clear that all who were there knew all about all.  I didn't get to keep the knowledge  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are here to learn to be better. If you don't get it you must do it again  

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The location I went is for those spirits that are ready to proceed. I got the impression that it was a waiting area to stay until god was ready for you to go some other place. I was made aware that the body dies and the spirit continues. That part of the person that is shared with or is a part of God  
  
Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I came back with the ability to tell others things about them that they need to know. Been made to contact some people. Always facts - always truth - details so they knew I was real. I have several occasions where I was guided to the spot where someone was so I could talk to them  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Spent years going to see people I didn't know so I could tell them something they needed to know.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was more than words can truly explain  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  Other experiences are pretty much gone - this is as real as the day it happened  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Some times I am guided to tell something to somebody that I didn't know or have not met before  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole thing  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Told my wife and it scared her so bad she wouldn't talk about it  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.  I had no doubt about it, especially when I found the house key on the top of the cabinets that I didn't know was there  prior to the experience.
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It happened. I believed it then and I still do. I have no doubt  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When I was made to come back it made me depressed. I didn't want to come back and am looking forward to when God will allow me to go there again  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Don't know         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/richard_c_probable_nde.html