{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1riccardo_nde.html","mytitle":"Riccardo NDE 5456","mylang":"de"}
          	        Riccardo NDE 5456  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Riccardo NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3538 Riccardo NDE 5456  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been to the dentist with my wife for the extraction of my wisdom tooth. Before the extraction, I was injected with an anesthetic. The surgery was a little painful but totally bearable, but while returning home the pain became more acute and unbearable. When I just entered the door of my house, I barely had time to sit down. I woke up realizing that my house was full of people and two nurses placed me on a stretcher to take me to the emergency room. 

I said, 'Why we are going to the hospital? I'm fine but I was even better in the place I've just been'. After a while, I realized my body was completely motionless but my mind, sight and hearing were active. It was very hard for me to recover my body functions. I was told later that I had a heart attack. This is the experience I had. 

I found myself sitting in the middle of a very big soft black velvet semicircular sofa. In front of me, there was a big screen as though I was going to watch a movie. On the screen, I saw a dark mountain.  Behind the mountain, a blinding light forced me to keep looking down toward the foot of the mountain. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw around me, both to the right and the left.  I saw the shadows of people who seemed to me to be dead relatives and friends, but since it was dark, I could not see to distinguish their faces. On their heads shone a weak flame. Their presence kept me company and I sent them security and love. Soft music could be heard in the environment and there was the scent of orange blossoms in the air. I was so happy and I was waiting for something special that the return to life denied me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  anno 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Allergic reaction.  allergico all'anestetico.  Other shok anafilattico in seguito all'estrazione del dente del giudizio.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Always

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     vedi domanda 16

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I feel other people thoughts.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The happiness I felt during the state of near-death and the absence of pain upon awakening

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I woke up, I immediately said, 'Why did you wake me up? I was fine where I was', but I realized that they didn't listen. They didn't take me seriously. They just wanted to revive me and smiled at me. The nurses even told me to not talk and stay calm. They made me angry.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even after many years, I consider it a unique, pleasant experience. I can say the world of the afterlife does not scare me. The problem is for those who stay.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't think so. There are too many questions.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1riccardo_nde.html