{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ricardo_ah_nde.html","mytitle":"Ricardo AH NDE 7379","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ricardo AH NDE 7379  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ricardo AH NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3754 Ricardo AH NDE 7379  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I, Ricardo AH, give the following testimony: 

On Saturday July 26, 2014, in my parish, around 3:10 pm I was finishing lunch when I suddenly felt a sharp pain in my stomach. The pain was increasing rapidly. 

What I remember: 

Feeling the pain, I got up suddenly and took a step to the right side of the chair and told my companion, Angelica, who had made my food and was eating next to me, ‘It hurts here at the top of my stomach, as if I were being stabbed by a needle.’ The pain intensified more, I felt fear and something like low blood sugar; then I felt an invisible, intangible force pulling me back, but I kept my feet on the ground, as if to avoid falling back. In that moment I saw a huge white light in front of me, which grew from my central vision to wrap around me completely, I felt like I was literally taken from the reality of my life. 

When the light disappeared, I was in a car with a large windshield and saw a path in which I was going towards some hills. The road was straight and long, about 20 km. The car was descending a slope into the valley. There were a few ripples on the slope as I descended. I noticed with great detail the panoramic view: the mountains, the semi-desert region, with some acacia trees randomly distributed in the landscape, but very separate from each other. I could see the color of the earth; it was like a sand color. In the background, the mountains formed a distant ridge and behind it was a huge white cloud, so big that it covered most of the horizon in front of me. The cloud was very high, with many clusters. The cloud was hit directly with sunlight, however looked completely white, with no red tones. The sky was a very deep, beautiful blue. No other clouds in the sky. That was the only one. The lines on the road were white and they were going by fast, so I knew that the car was traveling at high speed. I saw everything in great detail. 

I was not driving the car, but I had the windshield in front of me, about 20 centimeters, perhaps. The car was traveling on the road but I could not feel the tire contact with the pavement. I did not see my hands, or notice how I was dressed as I didn’t see my body. I was enthralled by the scenery and modern music played in the car, I guess it was the radio or a recording that sounded, but did not distinguish what song it was or who sang. I also listened to a very sharp and discreet, barely perceptible sound: a kind of beep that was interspersed with periods of silence. It was always the same tone, but the beeps did not present identically, some were longer than others. I also heard the voice of a man who was behind me, but never turned to see him, nor distinguish what he said because my ear could not distinguish his words. I remember well that I never answered him nor said anything, but my companion was talking the whole time. After several minutes, we approached the mountains in front of us and the cloud was increasingly larger and brighter. Its whiteness was impressive and that glow was growing more and more; it approached me until it enveloped me. In the light of the cloud, I realized that its color was white, but with a slight golden hue. I felt at that moment peace, joy and absolute tenderness, as if that light burned me and gave me complete serenity. I was subjected to a love without limits comfortable as if on one’s lap. I felt welcomed, loved unconditionally, forgiven for all my mistakes in life. Everything disappeared, the sharp sound, the voice of my companion, the panoramic view, everything. Well I was there, enjoying the peace. In the light of the cloud, I didn’t see my body either. I found myself joined with the light and full of happiness. I never wondered if I was dead or not, nor thought about the people I love, or any other type of human bonding. In the light, I felt all the love I could experience for all eternity and needed nothing more. I never saw any luminous beings, not angels, nor Christ or the Virgin, or saints or deceased relatives.  I saw no one there and I did not feel the need to talk to anyone.  I realized that all that love, I was receiving from the light, is a love that’s given to every human being, whether you believe or not in a higher being, whether you are good or bad. I realized that the light understands all human limitations and conditions. It is above all these aspects to love every member of the human family.  

Suddenly, the light around me became a sheet of ice.  The ice was in front of me with a layer covering the surface of a body of water.  I was emerging from the water, maybe it was a lake. As I arose, I noticed there was bright sunlight behind the ice and lit perfectly below the surface, so I thought the ice was thin. I stretched out my hands to the ice, as I approached, and noticed that there were two strands of bubbles on my left side, emerging beside me. However, I did not sense moisture in my body, nor cold water. Upon reaching the frozen surface, I was pushing it with my two hands. I didn’t hit it, just pushed again and again to break the ice and could lift it, remove it and get my head out to breathe. After about three attempts, I managed to lift part of the ice and it remained suspended, as if floating in the air above me, and I could then get my head out to breathe.  

Suddenly, again, the light enveloped me. I felt transported back and appeared sitting at my dining room table: breathing hard and with effort. I was sitting in my chair, in front of my plate and I realized that there was a place setting with a place mat, plate, cutlery, and glass, next to mine and I remembered Angelica was there, but she was not. I was scared to see that I was at the table and not in a frozen lake, or on a highway, not a paradise, but in my own home. I felt a lot of fear not knowing what had happened to me. I no longer had the feeling of joy and peace I felt in the light because I was scared of having suddenly ‘appeared’ in front of my dining room table. 

Then I heard the voice of Angelica, who was standing behind me, suggesting I get up and go out into the yard to breathe air. I felt peace to see that she was there with me and asked, ‘What happened?’ She was quiet. I got up quickly and went outside. She accompanied me. I did not feel weakness in my body, nor dizziness, thirst, or nausea. I felt good, but I was scared. Now when I took the first steps in the yard, my hands warmed enormously and a strong tingling ran through them. Again I felt frightened and Angelica suggested I go lay in bed for a moment. I thought it was best, but since I had the idea that I was facing an episode of low blood sugar, I asked her to prepare me a slice of bread with a little caramel. She brought it to me as I sat at the edge of the bed and waited. When she was going to give me the bread, I went to stretch open my hand and I realized I did not feel my hand, just heat and tingling and told her: ‘I cannot feel my hand.’ She looked at me silently and I took the bread from her hand, not feeling the bread. I immediately took a bite of bread, chewed slowly and swallowed. I looked at her and I realized that her lips were white.  It seemed like she had bitten white sand, but then I thought they were white out of fear. 

- ‘Were you scared?’ I asked. 

- ‘Yes, very. I didn’t know what to do’, she replied. 

- ‘Your lips are white’, I told her. 

- ‘Yes, from the fright, I imagine’, she replied and remained silent, looking worriedly at me. 

- ‘How long was I gone?’ I asked. 

- ‘About ten seconds’, she replied. 

- ‘Only ten seconds?  But I got lost after I got up and told you my stomach hurt, as if being stabbed by a needle, I felt a drop in my blood sugar and then a white light came to me and I felt something pulling me back until the light enveloped me and I appeared in a car on a road.’ I gave her the same description of everything I have told. 

What Angelica saw: 

She mentioned that I didn’t get up before losing consciousness. She remembers that I told her about my stomach pain, as if I were being stabbed by a needle and that I pointed to the top of my stomach; all of a sudden, my hands bent towards my forearms, and these I bent toward my chest and I crouched, leaning towards my plate.  She saw me and thought I was playing, but upon seeing me, still seated, and my body go rigid, she became frightened.  She got up right away, moving behind me.  She realized that I was struggling to breathe but I couldn’t.  She started asking me what was wrong and how she could help me, but I didn’t respond, since I was unconscious.  She thought I was going to have convulsions but that didn’t happen.  Angelica quickly grabbed my arms and tried to straighten me in the chair.  She could feel that I was stiff.  While she was pulling backwards I reacted, I returned and turned to the front, sitting upright again, breathing heavily and showing fear. 

After what Angelica told me: 

After listening to her with attention and concern on my part, I had a second bite of bread; I chewed and swallowed. The tingling stopped and the heat in my hands was slowly disappearing until gone. Everything was back to normal. 

She then suggested I sleep a few minutes, as she cleared the table and washed the dishes. Then she would go downstairs to her activities. I slept a half hour and got up to do Mass at 4 and 5 pm. I did it, feeling tired, with a sore left side that crossed my shoulder blade to the base of the chest, but the pain was there only on a small spot. After 5pm Mass, I felt much better, the pain in my stomach continued but was almost imperceptible.  

This writing I made on July 30, 2014, in the first free moment that I had to write it with details that came to mind. 

Here I will post what my first thoughts were about it. 

First thoughts from my experience, posted on Facebook, but then withdrawn out of prudence due to the disbelief of some of my contacts. 

July 30th 2014: 

Some of what I felt, in that moment inside the light of the cloud: I had to leave what’s temporary to experience the eternity of absolute love. In this moment, that I live now, the temporal and the eternal converge. Love transcends time; it stops it and becomes everything in an instant and forever. Just as one cannot hold on to the flow of time nor can one hold on to the uncreated love that comes to you at every moment. That which is Life lives within you and waits there, but when you go within yourself and look for it, you can feel it but not hold onto it. That cloud was more grandiose than anything was; its light was bathed in peace, a hug of unconditional love that received me in its embrace, despite my errors in my personal life. The love that I felt is the greatest that I have ever received. I felt my insignificance, but I also felt, gratitude for feeling welcomed by the light. I don’t know if anything stuck with me, that I am so limited and unable to delve into the mysteries, but I trust that light, that cloud: symbol of the presence of the Eternal. I hope that my life, or what remains of it, is done with gratitude, peace, surrendered devotion to that which is Beauty: both old and new, which took my time to love. That my decisions arise from this meeting, which was not one instant, but keeps giving every moment that I breathe, every beat of my wounded heart. 

August 3rd 2014: 

The NDE I had on Saturday July 26th has helped me to value each moment of life, the beauty of each moment; I have a feeling of admiration for each life; it has helped me to accept who I am, within my limited reality. It has made me more compassionate, understanding and helpful to others. All material things seem empty to me, without meaning; I no longer have that desire to compete for anything, nor get along with everyone; I have more desire to be at peace, meditate, pray; the fear of death has gone because I know what awaits me, though I retain a slight fear of what could lead me to death. I have more awareness of myself and living in the moment; I feel I am healing inside, although that means a duel between old patterns and behaviors and breaking paradigms that I had for years. I also live a different sense of the flow of events, of dealing with people. Everything seems new, as if I have come from another country to settle down for the first time here and I need to adjust back to everything I did before, but now I have another perspective on life. It is strange. I feel my life has new meaning, a new purpose, a need to finish something entrusted to me. There are many things I'm still learning from that experience. It’s not assimilated all at once, it takes time. 

What I learned from the experience. 

When I left: 

- Death arrives at any moment, without warning.  

- It is impossible to escape the feeling of the light and falling into the void: human beings are helpless before the mystery of death. 

On the road:  

- Feeling of total detachment, absolute detachment from all past, respect for all people in one’s life; a sense of tranquility. 

- On the way I'm driven, but I feel safe despite the speed. 

- Off the road toward the cloud, everything is semi-desert, almost lifeless. 

- The picture gives a sense of tranquility. 

In the cloud: 

- The cloud can represent a Divine presence. 

- The brightness of the cloud comes towards me and engulfs me before reaching the mountain. 

- Sensation of being received by the light: unconditional love, tenderness, peace, joy, security, forgiveness, living in quietude. Nothing is necessary any longer; I yearn for nothing. Pure happiness, without longings, without memories of the life I had, without worries for those left behind. 

In the frozen lake: 

- I am responsible for my own life: I need to take charge of it without trying to resolve anyone else’s life.  

- Only I can fight to move ahead and be reborn. I feel the light has given me the strength and knowledge to do so.  

- I sense that I must overcome my previous beliefs and patterns and restart my life, strengthened by the experience of light. 

Upon returning:  

- Feeling of being thrown back into the world, without having asked to be. 

- Feeling absolutely new to all that I perceive every day after the NDE.

- I have a new perception of the flow of time.  

- I have the feeling of having a ‘reset’ in the form of looking at life, the way to appreciate every moment.  

- I have the emotional need to mourn what was lost in my life. It is a duel without nostalgia. 

- I feel like my past is dead, I honor it for all it has taught me, but I let it go grateful to God for all that I’ve lived. I feel like I have died and been reborn. 

- I feel the need to adapt to a world that does not know my experience or can even imagine it: A world that I see with new eyes, but cannot even describe. I only know it's the same world as before, but I no longer see it with the old perspective. 

- Everything is new. I have trouble relating to people, with the world, with my activities like before. 

- I tend to re-do old habits, but they no longer have meaning. I have to stop myself and do things slowly (walking, breathing, speaking in a way that I don’t feel ruined by my own habits) and create a new existence based on what I lived in my NDE.  

- I feel alive with the certainty of having already been to the Mystery of God, being in a kind of divine house. But I don’t know how to express it. I feel the need to live in humility. As I do not know how to formulate it into words, I quiet myself, meditate, breathe, think, walk slowly, live deeply in the present, but do not know how to express the mystery. This is an ineffable mystery. I feel a certain sadness of not being able to communicate it, but I perceive it as a gift from above, it is a personal and undeserved gift because I am no saint. I get the impression that others will not understand me or not give importance to my testimony and I think: ‘I can tell it, but I can never communicate my experience. I know this, I admit. This limitation is part of the journey of faith.’  

- I see others with compassion and wonder if they have any idea of the essence of existence that the light gave me to experience. I get the impression that they do not realize this and therefore live distracted, thrown to the interests of the world. People, who do bad, I feel, are lost because they have not felt the Love.  

- The silence, meditation and prayer allow me to live what I experienced in the light, but it does not reproduce the actual experience. I can only conclude that it was made by the light, amid a situation perhaps physiologically critical. Perhaps that is how the human brain was designed. 

- Coming back feels like a rebirth, but now everything is different. Much of what once mattered to me now does not make sense, both, topics of interest and relationships with certain people, who were almost indispensable to me and with whom I had an attachment bond. Now I feel it no longer makes sense to miss such relationships or such topics. What I experienced in the light of the cloud in the NDE is an absolute value to which everything else is worthless.  

- I guess the way to embody the mystery is silence, fasting of unnecessary desires, the prayer of thanksgiving and being available to the light that engulfed me, loved me with a personal love. I intend to meditate, breathe carefully, walk mindfully, treat everyone and everything with extreme care, love people with heart, but not get involved in the solution of their lives. 

Note: For me that light is God himself.  I don’t write in the text that it was ‘God’ because what I saw was simply light.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  26 de Julio de 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Other: Bloqueo respiratorio durante un síncope provocado por causa desconocida.  The respiratory block was due to the physical position I had during syncope (fainting). The diaphragm was clogged and my lungs could not receive oxygen.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       1. When I was supposedly standing: feeling pain.   2. During the road trip: I was fully aware of what my senses were telling me.   3. Inside the light: I experienced, with full consciousness, love, peace, joy.   4. As I emerged from the frozen lake: I was fully aware of myself, of the need to leave the water, but did not feel a state of alertness, but of serenity.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In the scenes, where I was allegedly, standing in the dining room and in the car on the road and as I emerged from the water, time seemed normal to me. Instead, within the light, time had stopped. I experienced a sense of eternity (no succession of time or events).

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision had great detail, with hyper-realism (superior to the perception of daily living). I felt colors more intensely, shapes of the landscape and the frozen lake with more detail than with normal vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was less accurate than in daily life. I could not discern what my companion said, nor distinguish the language of the people who I heard singing on the recording or radio in the car on the road. I heard in detail the acute, intermittent sound that could be heard inside the car.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Instead of a tunnel it was a road in the middle of the desert. The idea is the same but formulated differently.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was very intense, white with a slight golden hue. Although it was intense, it did not hurt my eyes. The light was emanating all the feelings that I perceived.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     For me that mystical and supernatural realm was in the light. Other scenes seemed natural, like earthly life but with more vivid colors.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       They were different emotions or feelings:   1. When I supposedly stood, I felt afraid.   2. When I was in the car on the road, I felt peace, serenity and detachment.   3. In the light, I felt an infinite and unconditional love, a total sense of forgiveness, an absolute peace and irrepressible joy.   4. As I left the frozen lake, I felt peace and serenity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I seemed to realize how the love from the light was for every human being, same as the forgiveness: the universal acceptance.  I felt united to all of mankind under the same loving embrace from the light.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The chain of mountains, which was down at the end of the road, was the clear indication of a border, a point of no return, which I overcame when the light cloud came to me and enveloped me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The path from the light in the cloud (point of no return) to the interior of the frozen lake was a sudden change of scene.  The scene, in which I leave the frozen water, resulted in my decision to leave it to be able to breathe, but at no moment was I conscious of being dead or about to die.  The scene could signify my decision to return to life, but I was not conscious of this during the experience.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   A pesar de ser sacerdote católico, durante mi experiencia no vi personas religiosas (Cristo, María, santos, ángeles, etc).

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I live every moment a lot more grateful to God and to life. I don’t use as many rituals of classic prayers (Liturgy of the Hours) but live more intensely the Mass. I attend to the faithful with greater love when I hear their confessions and give them guidance.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Con la experiencia que padecí tengo una comprensión más profunda del Amor sobrenatural que emana la Luz, la cual es para todos los seres humanos, más allá de todo credo o confesión religiosa. Comprendí también que el amor de la Luz sobrenatural entiende las limitaciones de todo ser humano y lo acepta a pesar de sus errores cometidos en la vida.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     En la fe católica se considera que quienes mueren en pecado mortal se van al infierno, pero en la experiencia que padecí tuve la certeza de que todo ser humano que muere, aunque tenga pecados mortales, es recibido por esa luz amorosa. Esa Luz recibe en su seno a todo ser humano. La Luz (Dios) comprende nuestras limitaciones y no puede condenarnos por no haber nosotros podido superar nuestras experiencias traumáticas o nuestros cortos criterios humanos que nos inducen a cometer errores y pecados. Tuve la experiencia de que el infierno, si existe, está vacío.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I value most the significance of eternity in every instance of life. I value each person as infinitely and unconditionally loved by that light that loved me.  From that, I feel compassion for everyone. Religious rites and theological studies seem to me, now, just indicators that guide us toward the Truth. The Light that enveloped me, in my experience is the essence of that Truth: God himself.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The voice was that of my travel companion on the road. It was the voice of a man, but I never knew who he was, never saw him, nor identified a single word of what he said.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Experimenté en la luz un sentido místico de unidad de todo el género humano con lo divino; un llamado universal a estar destinados todos a esa luz para siempre.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Esa luz es para mí la esencia misma de Dios.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My only purpose in life is to love every human being with the love that I received from the light. That is the only true life.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Dentro de la experiencia sentí que todo ser humano sólo tiene un significado y propósito: vivir en el dinamismo del amor de esa Luz.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Dentro de la luz tuve la certeza de que ese amor, esa paz, ese gozo, ese sentimiento de perdón eran eternos y que todo ser humano los va a experimentar eternamente, por tanto después de la muerte física.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Que el amor que debo vivir es el mismo amor que recibí de la Luz. Amar a los demás de modo total, incondicional, como me sentí amado por esa Luz.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     - Que todo sufrimiento humano en la vida es causado por el apego.  - Que el reto principal que cada uno tiene es el de hacerse cargo de sí mismo.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     El amor que emanaba de la luz es un amor incondicional, eterno, gratuito, que todo lo abraza. Es un amor que se dona a todo ser humano.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.  I live each moment with more joy, paying attention to every detail. I feel more compassion for people than before, but I respect their autonomy and try not to create emotional ties of dependency with anyone. Prior to the experience I did have emotional dependency ties with my loved ones.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I maintain my relationships naturally, without needing to attach to any loved one. I behave in a more comprehensive, serene and compassionate way with people with whom I interact.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To formulate what I felt when I was in the light is not easy because they were feelings of an infinite and unconditional love, a feeling of total forgiveness, an absolute peace and an irrepressible joy.  But these adjectives have no reference point in ordinary everyday experiences.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   La precisión de los recuerdos que tuve fue tan precisa como los momentos cercanos porque consistieron para mí en una vivencia real. Sólo tuve mayor precisión de la experiencia dentro de la Luz, en la que los sentimientos positivos fueron increíblemente superiores en intensidad y precisión a todo sentimiento experimentado en mi vida diaria.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Every part of my experience I find highly significant and explained in the story above and the lessons that I learned from that experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first time I shared it was about two minutes after it happened to me. I told my cook, who was with me and witnessed what happened to me. Her reactions are described in the story that I presented above. Currently, my cook keeps track of my health condition and found that my experience is intriguing and helped her to appreciate every moment of life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I just remember when I was a teenager (in the nineties) there was an American television program broadcast in Mexico that spoke about NDE’s, but it never interested me. I never saw a complete episode because I thought they were made- up stories.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The reality of my experience has always seemed genuine, real, as it consisted of a true experience. I have no doubt.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The reality of my experience has always seemed genuine, real, as it consisted of a true experience, though my body was suffering. I have no doubt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   When I walk consciously, quietly, slowly and concentrate on my breathing, I feel like I’m wrapped in that light that enveloped me during my experience, but not exactly the same.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'd like to feel that Light within and the feelings I had in it, but I would not threaten my health for this.  In the light I had the certainty that the love, that peace, that joy, that feeling of forgiveness were eternal and that every human being will experience them for eternity, after physical death. The light is for me: the very essence of God.  n the light I experienced a mystical sense of unity of all mankind and the divine, a universal call that we are all destined to that light forever. All human suffering in life is caused by attachments. The main challenge that everyone has is to take care of oneself. The love that emanated from the light is an unconditional love, eternal, all embracing. It is a love that gives itself to every human being. The love that I should live is the same love that I received from the Light: Loving others in a complete way, unconditionally, as I felt loved by that Light.  The Catholic faith believes that those who die in mortal sin will go to hell, but in the experience I had, I felt certain that every human being who dies, even with deadly sins, is greeted by the loving light. That Light receives every human being to her womb. The Light (God) understands our limitations and cannot condemn us for not being able to overcome our traumatic experiences or our short- comings that induces us to make mistakes and sin. I had the sense that if hell exists, it is empty. The accuracy of the memories I had was as accurate as life events because for me it was a real occurrence. I only had the most precise experience in the Light, in which positive feelings were incredibly higher in intensity and precision to every feeling experienced in my everyday life.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I consider it very important that you ask about the after-effects in the weeks following the NDE, that each person experiences.  I told of those after-effects in the text following my story: lessons from my NDE and how I felt in the days following my NDE.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ricardo_ah_nde.html