{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ricardo_fv_nde.html","mytitle":"Ricardo FV NDE 4170","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ricardo FV NDE 4170  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ricardo FV NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2023 Ricardo FV NDE 4170  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On 28th April, 1984, which was a Sunday, I awoke early, feeling very relaxed. When I was awake, I began to feel like having sex, so I started to touch my wife, with this in mind. In the middle of it, I felt a strong pain in my left arm, with reactions towards the throat, and in seconds I felt that my lungs were out of oxygen, my strength left me, and I told my partner that this was a possible heart-attack. Within half an hour, I was in the care of doctors, and while in the emergency room, I lost consciousness. What I then saw and what others there saw are completely disconnected events.

I ascended through a tunnel at the end of which there was a lot of white light. When I got to the end, my deceased father-in-law was waiting for me there, to my surprise. I asked him what I was doing there with him, and he told me not to be afraid, that I had simply died. I answered this by saying it was not possible, since my children needed me, being still very small, so I refused to stay in that place. Other deceased persons came near, trying to keep me there by force, and I was fighting them all, except my wife's father, handing out punches and kicks all round.

The real situation, which I was told about, and of which I was completely unaware, was that apparently I did suffer a loss of consciousness, and, according to the doctors, a cardiac arrest. They explained that when I lost consciousness, I leaped from the gurney, left the room at a run and went to hide in a corner, where doctors and nurses tried to pacify me. I was punching and kicking in self-defense, and my wife told me she heard me shouting in a really terrified way, so that as soon as she could break free from the people restraining her she ran to my side and spoke in my ear asking what was happening to me. Then I opened my eyes, and seeing her there, I told her I had been to the other side. She asked where, and I answered, with her father, who had died four years previously.

They calmed me down and put me in the intensive care unit. Until now, what I learned from this experience is that from then on I have never feared my last day, since this can come at any time, but I am sure that when it does come, instead of struggling against it, I will go happily into death's embrace.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  29 April 1984
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Parada cardiorespiratoria

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   At no time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At no time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I have never worked out how long the situation lasted.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     A very white light of great purity.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Until a familiar voice said I few words to me, I was unable to extricate myself from the situation.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A tunnel with a light at the end.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were waiting for me at the end of the tunnel. One of them was my late father-in-law, dead four years previously.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very clear, white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, sadness and incomprehension.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that the fact of dying is part of life, and I stopped having that awful fear of it that I had before the experience.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I feel that I crossed the frontier between life and death, and there were physically present people who were already dead.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Not at all.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Okay, I think I would be repeating myself, see above, but I have always sought answers which are more scientific than religious.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They told me that God had given me another chance, that, according to their beliefs, their God needed me here for other more important things. I have to say that I consider myself an atheist.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that when my heart failed, the blood supply to my brain was reduced, and that this story formed itself by a chemical process.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was one more experience in the passage through this world, but it has left me without fear.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The truth is that I would like to have an answer, but I know that this is wanting to know from whence we came, and where we are heading.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think the questionnaire is quite comprehensive.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ricardo_fv_nde.html