{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ribes_nde.html","mytitle":"Ribes NDE 919","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ribes NDE 919  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ribes NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						532  Ribes NDE  919  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was asleep, under anesthesia, then I was projected in a bright tunnel at a dizzying speed; some colors, some flashes of light. Then, a slowdown, I was out of the tunnel. I was floating in the air and I went forward; I heard divine music and a voice, which talked to me as if it were within myself.  It was a soft and reassuring voice, which told me not to be afraid, and that I didn’t risk anything, which reassured me. At the same time, I was bathed in divine music; I didn’t feel anything, neither my heart beat, nor my body nor my body’s gravity.


I was looking at my body: I didn’t have a body anymore. I got closer to a light that is more and more intense.  Nevertheless, I didn’t have any pain in my eyes. I was able to distinguish three white silhouettes in the light, from the shoulders to the head. Being at just two or three meters (six and half to ten feet) away from them, I didn’t go forward any further. Those three beings were fascinating; a kindness emanated from them; I had no fear. Their large and black eyes, all black and globulous, almond-shaped eyes expressed compassion. The voice went on: it told me that it is not my turn and that I would start again.


Then a great white light; I opened my eyes and the doctors succeeded in resuscitating me. My father told me, ‘you made us frightened’. Later on, I told my mother that I saw three angels.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1965

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Surgery-related    Clinical death lors d'une opération d'une hernie inguinale, mort clinique, réanimation massage cardiaque, mon père était présent

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Without appearance, bathed in whiteness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      General anesthetic.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I thought that it lasted ages, but my father told me that it lasted only a few seconds.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Divine music.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A tunnel, like a whirl with a dizzying speed; some lights, some colors.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Three beings bathed in whiteness with an oval shape.  They spoke to me within myself, like my small inner-voice.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      A great joy, a deliverance.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I could not follow the beings of light anymore.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   A 7 ans, je n'avais pas de profil religieux particulier

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I was seven years old.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The fear of not being understood.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I feel what people think; over-sensitivity and I feel very bad during or before a dramatic event relating to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part: the assurance that something else exists after death; the worst: a difficult experiment to assimilate and share; why me?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My mother didn't say anything to me but I know that she believed me.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ribes_nde.html