{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rica_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Rica S NDE 130","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rica S NDE 130  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rica S NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1457 Rica S NDE 130  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My husband and I were living in Florida by his family. My father called and said he needed me to come home and help him (he was dying of cancer). Since my husband of fourteen years had a 'girlfriend', I left on the next plane. After several months of staying in a very small trailer and taking care of my dad, depression set in very bad. My brother had come and taken my dad to Tennessee to stay with him for the weekend. I couldn't take it any longer. I took ninety tablets. I was crying and yelled at God to forgive me. I called the hospital emergency room after about fifteen minutes and asked them if that amount would be fatal. The lady started asking me questions. I told her I didn't want her involved. But in the meantime, I guess she traced the call.

After the tunnel experience, I woke up in the hospital and new exactly that it was two days later. I even knew the day of the week. The doctor came in and told me that by all rights I should not be here, that I had taken enough medication to kill ten grown men. He said I had been 'dead' for forty-five minutes and in a coma for two days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death   I had taken a month's supply of my father's antidepressant medication. He was dying of cancer and I was the only one to care for him.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  So hard to explain. There was just not a solid body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total alertness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I'm not real sure what you mean by this.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At first, a swooshing sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a gliding feeling. A fast glide.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     He was at the end of the tunnel. I did not know him. He had long white hair and a long white beard. I cannot remember a lot of the conversation. I have thought of being hypnotized so that I could remember, but mainly he said, 'You HAVE to go back.' As soon as he said it, I regained consciousness.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Indescribable.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was a 'scene' with trees and flowers and it was full of 'moisture'. So peaceful.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       During the tunnel, a feeling of such love and peace. Total lack of bad emotion.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Oh, yes. What you answer for when you die is not what the preachers preach. It is, 'What have you done to help your fellow man?'

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist background

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Still consider myself Baptist, only so much different.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I cannot find the right words to describe very much after the tunnel. It was just so beautiful, feelings of peace and love and the 'fullness of moisture' of everything. (Not the right words.)

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Coming back was the worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few. People think you're nuts.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I think about it a lot at night when I'm going to sleep, but it cannot be 'reproduced'.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I learned that a person cannot go back if they take their own life or anyone else's.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Make it shorter. I've tried three times to complete this before someone came in the room wanting to know what I was doing and looking at me like I had lost my mind.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rica_s_nde.html