{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rhonda_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Rhonda R NDE 6343","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rhonda R NDE 6343  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rhonda R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3091 Rhonda R NDE 6343  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I awoke and felt very dizzy and sick. I moved to lie down upon the couch and go back to sleep. Something kept waking me up; I had the strong feeling to call my sister. I did not want to bother her and I doubted she would be home but I called because I kept having that nagging feeling. My sister was at home and when I related my feeling she told me to come on out to her home. I told her I wasn't sure I could drive, so she and her sons came to get me. I went to her couch and laid down there. I would have died there on her couch but the doorbell rang and a friend of hers, who is a police officer, came in. He was not expected and had not planned to drive the 45 minutes that morning to her home but later said something had just kept telling to go to her home. When he came in and saw me on the couch, he asked what was wrong with me. My sister told him that I wasn't feeling well. He stepped toward the couch to talk to me. By this time, I had already turned blue. The last memory I had was of Steve telling my sister to call an ambulance. He then said, 'we don't have time for an ambulance, do you know any first responders!' 

The next thing I knew I was in an ambulance an Emergency Medical Technician was sitting beside me. I could read his thoughts. He was thinking how terrible it was that I was dying so young and that there was nothing he could do to help me. I could see my body and see him sitting next to me while I read his thoughts.  I had the feeling of someone near me. I thought, 'Am I dying?' A very kind female voice spoke to me saying, 'No. That would never be asked of your parents.' (My family had just lost my 27-year-old brother two years earlier from cancer.) This being, I believe, was an angel. The calm and feeling of pure unconditional love that emanated from her was far past anything possible for human beings. The angel told me not to fear the there was nothing wrong with me. She told me they would run tests on me, a lot of tests, but never fear for they will find nothing. She told me again not to fear there was nothing wrong with me. I felt such a peace it was unbelievable! As time would tell, everything she said came to pass.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had an anaphylactic reaction to a very common antibiotic Biaxin.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was conscious of peace and love on a much higher level than normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was speaking to the angel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed slower and calmer.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Before I was feeling ill it was normal. During the experience, it is almost impossible to describe. I could see myself from above and I could read the Emergency Medical Technician's thoughts.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard thoughts with no words. No normal hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I felt fear. Once I spoke to the angel, I felt no more fear. I felt only peace, love, kindness and caring.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Complete peace and love. Unity with all beings.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I attend services much more regularly and do more for others.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed in God and his mercy but I had no idea the unconditional boundries of God's love.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Stronger faith in God. More kindness and giving actions toward others.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The being, I believe, was an angel, she spoke directly to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew this love came from God. It was some of the information that the angel sent to me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   From the angel, I felt there is continued existence after our earthly life. I knew this love came from God. It was some of the information that the angel sent to me. God's love is pure and unconditional. This came through very clearly. I had the sense of knowing that the angel could see the future and that what she told me would come to pass. I also quit fearing because of what she told me. The doctors did many different tests on me and found nothing just like she said.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt this from the angel.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God's love is pure and unconditional. This came through very clearly.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     So many! I have a strong faith now and can see where God influences my life. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I try to give more love and kindness.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The angel spoke to me without words. It was as if her thoughts and mine just went straight to each other with no words. I could feel the peace, love and kindness. I could read the Emergency Medical Technician's thoughts as well.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For a short time after I did have the ability to know thoughts of others or things that effected my family. This passed however.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Remembering the complete unconditional love of God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me a few months.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Not that I recall.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was very real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel it was very real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was a wonderful blessing.  I believed in God and his mercy but I had no idea the unconditional boundaries of God's love.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rhonda_r_nde.html