{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rhonda_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Rhonda H NDE 896","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rhonda H NDE 896  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rhonda H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						367  Rhonda H NDE  896  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was riding my dirt bike. I tried to go down a steep embankment, lost control, and the bike flipped out from under me. I rolled down the hill. The bike landed on me, flipped up in the air, and hit me again a couple more times. I must have gone out.


I saw nothing but darkness for the first couple of seconds. Then I saw light in the far away background, and what I chose to believe was Jesus in front of me. He was clothed, as we have seen him to be clothed in Bible stories of old. I noticed a sash around his waist, and a piece of cloth draped across his shoulder. He didn't say anything, and at first, I felt his 'look' was of dissatisfaction with me. He floated backwards and I followed Him, toward the light. It got brighter and brighter.


I asked him to please let me stay to be with my kids. Suddenly, the light got intensely bright and I felt an indescribable warmth. A comforting warmth. When we reached the light, we were on a hill, overlooking what looked like a wheat field. People were coming up the hill, toward where we were. They wore robes of varying colors. I sensed they were at peace. No expression, just peace. I came away feeling that must be total contentment. Jesus sat down under a very large tree and they all knelt down in front of Him. Again, I asked to return to care for my children. Jesus spoke to them without saying a word. They all understood.


I then awoke in my husband's arms. He was rocking back and forth saying I was dead. I drew in a breath and told him I was alive.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 1978

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death See narrative.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I don't think so. I felt like I was right there the whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was out like a light. In fact, my husband said he heard all the air rush from my body (I had punctured a lung).

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Not that I know of. I didn't know where I was.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sounds. No noises. Silence.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I felt the first one was Jesus. The rest of the people, the ones on the hill after we passed through the tunnel, were just that. People. Men, women, all in robes.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The hilltop and the wheat field were beautiful. As was the tree. It was so big with outstretched branches.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I pled to return to care for my three children.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became more aware of my need to have God in my life, and to let my loved ones know how important they are to me.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the warmth of the light. It's indescribable! The worst part was the 'feeling' Jesus was dissatisfied with me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The first people I told were my husband and sister-in-law right after I regained consciousness. I said, 'Thank goodness I landed here! A few more feet and I would have hit the tree!' There were no trees there! BUT, there was a tree where I was. Most people cry when I tell them. I don't know why, but I get a 'feeling' when I am supposed to share my experience with someone. I haven't told a lot of people, but the ones I do, all but maybe two have had tears in their eyes when I tell them. One strange incident with telling. It was actually the first person other than a family member that I told. We were on a Ferry and a young man walked right up to us and said, 'Have you ever had a near death experience?' I answered yes and told him my story. He smiled and walked away. We looked for him afterward to ask him why he asked me that question. He was nowhere to be found on the Ferry!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I am no longer afraid of death. I used to be horrified about it. Now I know it will be wonderful. The light, the warmth, no pain, no sorrow, no worries.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rhonda_h_nde.html