{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rhonda_nde.html","mytitle":"Rhonda NDE 5055","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rhonda NDE 5055  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rhonda NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2618 Rhonda NDE 5055  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having a heart test done. I told the doctor that I was going to lose consciousness. I didn't feel right. I felt myself come out of the body at my feet. It was slow. All I remember was telling them I was going and I fell over on the bed. The last thing I saw was the doctor jumping up out of his chair. Next, I was in darkness. Went I realized I was in the darkness, I saw a bright Light come to me. It was as white as snow. That's all I remember. Then I was back in my body. Never will I forget that or know why it happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness. Allergic reaction    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' I was having heart test.  Heart test was being done on me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As soon as I realized I was in darkness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I realized I was in darkness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     At first no. But then I knew I was in the darkness. Just as soon as I knew that, the Light came.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything. Just knew.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was like a room, or maybe space.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was as white as the snow, but bright. It was coming to me I think.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I just wanted to know where I was, feel fine and as soon as I knew I was in utter darkness the light came.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I feel sometimes I know things.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none denomination

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I love the Lord Jesus Christ. and know he is alive and well and is coming again.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   full gospel

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I love the Lord Jesus Christ. and know he is alive and well and is coming again.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I know for sure, God is real, and so is the darkness the Bible talks about. The Light is real. I know it deep in my heart. No one can tell me it didn't happen. I know it did.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Why did I not go to the light, and why I came back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Light.  I want to know what would happen if the light reached me. I guess it wasn't my time. I don't know. When I think about it, I still can feel how it felt to me. I can still feel the darkness and the light. But it seemed the light was more important to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They look at me like I am crazy. So I keep asking God why or what it was all for.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I always heard about others, say they heard of it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Why, and what was it? What happened? Why did I come back? Why was I not allowed to meet the light?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Really don't know what to say. It happened and I know it was real. Why I don't know.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rhonda_nde.html