{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1renee_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Renee G NDE 2004","mylang":"de"}
          	        Renee G NDE 2004  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Renee G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						497  Renee G NDE  2004  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I saw myself lying on the bed face down but yet I was viewing it from above as if I were floating above my body. Then I was taken through the roof and up into a dark space where there were many tiny colored lights and I was traveling past them. I had the feeling that these lights were very familiar to me but there was a single very bright light in the far distance that I was being pulled toward at great speed. I wanted to go toward that very intense light and then, as if there was a rope tied around my waist, I was reeled backwards again passing all the same little familiar lights and found myself in the body-bag experiencing great pain as I was stiff from being dead for such a long time. It was extremely difficult to move any part of my body as the pain was extreme. I did however regain my life and functions and managed to roll myself off some kind of table. When I hit the floor, many came to see what had happened and then they opened the bag. I was very much alive and well after being there for twenty-nine minutes! My life had not been the same since!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 January 14,1879  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident       Declared dead by smoke inhalation due to a house fire  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Was declared DOA and for 29 minutes. Was toe tagged in a body bag awaiting to be transported to hospital morgue  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was much more intense than a normal state.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       There was no time that I was not at a high level of what I would deem conscious.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Saw things that words can not describe - perhaps at the molecular level would be the closest I could explain.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was deafening silence throughout this experience but the visual sense was much more acute.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a dark elongated field which contained millions of tiny colored lights with a bright tiny white light at the far end.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were tiny little multi-colored lights that I felt I was very familiar with. They surrounded me as I passed through them at great speed. Yes, they were attempting to communicate but I was traveling so fast I could not understand what they were imparting to me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw many tiny colored lights passing me very quickly and one very intense white light at the far end but never reached it even though I wanted to very much do so.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     It certuanly was not of this world and I have no idea how to explain what it was or where it was that I experienced.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A great feeling of well-being! Also a great feeling of love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        Extremely accurate! Rather a big trouble for me in my present life.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian but not active in any church.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now know that ALL THINGS ARE POSSIBLE that there are no rights or wrongs. Things just 'ARE'.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE!  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know that ALL THINGS ARE POSSIBLE that there are no rights or wrongs. Things just 'ARE'.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Lost a lot of friends and now keep very much a private life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many special gifts or curses. I can see other peoples' physical maladies. I can now have lucid dreams that come true. I can see other peoples' future as well as world events and much, much more.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience is still a great mystery and I really do want to go back there where ever there might be. It was a wondrous place to be!  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few believe me so I now tell very few people about myself or my so-called gifts.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     BECAUSE IT HAPPENED TO ME! NO DOUBT ABOUT IT! Hospital and Paramedic records do not lie!  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     With great certainty that there is something after this worldly existence.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There are many universes. Doubt nothing. All things are possible!  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        Again how could anything quite explain this? Unless you have actually experienced this there are no words for it!     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1renee_g_nde.html