{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rhea_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Rhea S Probable NDE 7399","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rhea S Probable NDE 7399  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rhea S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3766 Rhea S Probable NDE 7399  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in an emergency room after being in a severe car accident. I had a dislocated shoulder, whiplash and was in shock. My sister was in critical condition in the next room. The medical staff administered a sedative to reduce my dislocated shoulder. I remember feeling every part of my body go numb and feeling like I couldn't move at all. 

Then I got the distinct feeling that I was going on a journey. My spirit felt exhilarated but I remember arguing in my mind, 'I can't do this because my sister is severely injured and needs me!' The next thing I knew, I felt so exuberant going through this high-speed tunnel. It was like a swirling, dark vortex.  I felt 'blissed-out' in it. The next thing I knew, I was floating above my body in the emergency room. I remember seeing a clock on the wall and being slightly above it. I was puzzled and then I realized that I wasn't in my body anymore. I didn't know what to do then. I felt confused but not panicked. Then as my dislocated shoulder was reduced, I heard my body screaming below. Next, I was sucked back into my body through my chest. 

Later, when the staff shook me to wake up, I started yelling at them and cussing them out. I felt like I was in such a peaceful place and I didn't want anyone to take me away from that place. I don't remember anything specific about this place other than the great peace that I felt there. Since that time, I have embarked on a very deep, spiritual journey. I have had a lot of paranormal experiences, including communicating with spirits and animals and ETs. My body has gone to a higher vibration, which has caused me health issues from time to time including chronic fatigue and vertigo. I still struggle with homesickness for the other side. In my daily meditations I am able to feel this loving, Divine Light and that is helpful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 25, 1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I was in shock after being in a severe car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard the medical staff talking about reducing my shoulder.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the tunnel and out of my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   The tunnel was moving extremely fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see around the emergency room, as if I had panoramic vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was different, in that the location of the voices was different than if the people were standing next to me talking.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a high-speeding, black vortex in the shape of a tunnel with walls.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, bliss, peace and some confusion

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Jewish   I was a non practicing Jew.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe there is a Divine energy that connects us all. I can communicate with it and so many different beings in the Universe.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   My philosophy of Oneness with the Divine Light and all its creations including people, ET's, animals, plants, rocks etc.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not know that consciousness can reside out of our bodies.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is more to life than what our five senses tell us.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt this incredible bliss of being a part of something greater than myself. Although, I didn't know what that was.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life: I devoted my life to studying spiritual/metaphysical matters and doing more service towards others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I became a more compassionate and loving person and less armored.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because what I told you is only part of the emotional layering of things. It was more diffuse and hard to put into words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     More expanded consciousness whereby I can sense other people's energies, feelings and also converse with the spirits of people, animals, plants and ET's.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was told by my spirit guides to not discuss this with others until about seven years after my initial experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I was underwater a long time in the ocean, when I was twelve years old. The seas were very rough that day and a huge wave crashed onto me and took me underwater to the shore. I felt very peaceful.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I kept thinking about it obsessively, trying to understand it more.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real to me, as I can still vividly recall it 32 years later.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Some of your questions are biased in the way they are worded; forcing an answer in a certain way that I felt wasn't truthful. In some cases, the choices you gave in terms of feelings were too black and white. They did not express my true feelings but only gave you what you wanted to hear an A or B feeling. In the future, in terms of feeling questions, you could ask us to describe our feelings not just give one or two choices about our feelings.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rhea_s_probable_nde.html