{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1renee_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Renee M NDE 22437","mylang":"de"}
          	        Renee M NDE 22437  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  			    			      			        			          			          Renee M NDE  			            			            			            Home  			            Classification NDE  			            2588 Renee M NDE 22437  		                		              		            			      			    			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6683  					</p>  					It was a beautiful fall day November 2, 2003. The weekend of the celebration of Halloween. The weather at this time in North America was very unpredictable. This day was a beautiful fall day, warm enough for sightseeing and a nice relaxing motorcycle ride with friends.  Little did I know the universe had other plans of how this day would end?

Suddenly it all happened so fast. I could see myself outside of my body. My soul was above my body floating around as if I had turned into a magical Firefly.  But I was lying in a ditch in some water. Unconscious.  Bleeding from the head with a badly broken jaw.  My heart had stopped beating. I could see it.  My heart was lying outside of my chest and it was not beating.  Strangely, just like watching a big screen movie I could hear everything going on around me. But I was dead. How could this be?  I could hear the police and the paramedics talking about needing to resuscitate me, and how much blood I had lost.  It was over three pints, and that is enough to stop the flow of to any heart.  I heard the life flight land and still I can feel the air blowing everything around as if it were happening to me now. 

 I am watching my life unfold right in front of me like a bad dream only it did not feel bad at all. I could see my surroundings but did not feel any physical pain or emotional stress.  My emotions are heightened accelerated into pure light energy where there is no space or time. I felt more alive than I have ever felt in my life. There are no words to describe this ascended transformation. It is not humanly conceivable for man to remotely understand.  If you can, imagine all of a sudden your soul being ripped wide open, as everything inside starts to flow into this superior atmosphere of powerful light and energy.  A supernatural dimension. Maybe even a whole separate galaxy that co-exists in the heavens, or perhaps is closer to us than we think? This powerful energy had control over the heavens and planets and it was pulling me, morphing me into it. I became this all knowing, all powerful, amazing incredible light of energy! I will never be the same.  The light of all creation just manifested itself into me. 

You do not see and feel this powerful light energy here on Earth. People always ask me.  What did you see?  Did you meet anyone? 

Okay, I will do my best to explain. Almost instantaneous after the feeling of floating upward, the beautiful bright light transformed me and sucked me into its magical atmosphere. I merged with God. I instantly became all knowing. I became a part of the creator itself. I had no known memory of the feelings of separation from anything.  This may be hard for most to understand, but I had been there before. You can never be separated from yourself. Death is an Earth-created illusion and illness. Come back where?  I never left.  This is a dimensional world that has levels and planes.  Dimensional  frequencies that can be moved higher, lower, brighter, slower, faster designed into manifestation thus leading us to other planes and different dimensions of existence. 

The strange thing now is not what will happen now but more interestingly wishing to know how it is happening and why. With no fear, I must add. Fear is another illusion.  It has taken me all these years just to get a realization and awareness of what an observer is like. I developed a strange mind in that it is accelerating faster than I could possibly keep up with.  It intuitively and clearly does not care of my understanding of the processes of what is happening or as to what has happened and furthermore what is to be. It just cares about the feelings behind the processes right now this moment!  That is all that matters and that is all that is even a reality to this transformed mind.  Do not try to analyze the possession. I am told it is not where your powers and talents are needed. 

My spirit guides, which I am dependent on in all totality, tell me that I have tapped into the mind of God and this power knows all. It has the knowledge and power to control the material world and beyond. They tell me I must control my feelings and thoughts.  I must stay connected always with the universal laws of energy that our creator has uniquely designed for our success and happiness.  Do not worry your pretty little head as to the process for it is in God's Hands. You are not in control now.  Just stay close to this plan and your life will blossom like a newly created flower that breaths life as if it were part of the master plan.  

I came back to Earth with a different mind operating system. The rules of this land (meaning created laws) no longer apply to me. This intuitive mind operates all on its own. Heavenly Angelic powers are all around me. Fear is just another illusionary created word.  Universal causes cannot be lower than the universal effects. The source of the streams of universal life and the cosmic mind must be above the level of their manifestations. Since my out of body, I find myself effortlessly moving in and out of my body. I lose track of time, days and months go by as if they never existed. It is as if someone other than myself is using me in some other dimension, somewhere  other than here on planet earth but I am functioning as well as possible all the while this is happening. 

Age.  Just one more added illusion illness that we have created to be a part of life as we know it here on planet Earth. This may come as shock to you but is true nonetheless. 'We are Immortal spiritual beings' having a human experience. The separations we have created here has been nothing more than an ignorant mind set to create fear. There has to be an opposite something always. Life-Death, Good-Bad, Happy-Sad. There is nothing separate in the infinite universe and that would include the terrorist standing right next to you. We are all pieces of one created puzzle. It is true that love is the answer.  The earth's vibrational patterns are changing at a very accelerated pace. Our emotional patterns, DNA, and brain frequencies are changing. There is a divine magnetic pull infusing thought patterns and vibrational energies. These are truly exciting magical times ahead.  

The one law that will never change is the law of 'Free Will'  Ask and it is given, seek and ye shall find, knock and the door is open. As my Angel guide's tell me very clearly, they will not come unless invited. It is always about free will. Another shocker 'We are already Free' But that is to each their choice. We are all on different levels of understanding of allowable choices and spiritual awareness of self. It is the awareness of spirit that will lead us to the knowledge and understanding needed to transform and transcend into places unimaginable and incomprehensible to man. Please let me assure you this is only a small part of what is in store for the transcendent soul that follows that 'knowing' of the creator of life. I Am of all things created.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11-2-2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Direct head injury  My heart stopped beating while unconscious and in a coma, they had to restart my heart, administer blood and stick the breathing tube down my thought. I had lost over three pints of blood from a head wound.  Other My heart stopped beating while unconscious and in a coma, they had to restart my heart, administer blood and stick the breathing tube down my thought. I had lost over three pints of blood from a head wound.  Not in this life

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear and see everything. I see the paramedics cutting my shirt and sticking the tube down my throat. I heard the life flight landing and the people running all around me. Lifting me onto a table, not to move my neck and head. I also see my blood flowing out of my head and choking me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I could not remember anything. My mouth was wired shut and I could not eat or talk. I was still out of my body. I did not want to go back into it but some way knew I was going to eventually have too. I was walking around the hospital touching people and healing them and helping them not be afraid to cross if it was there time to go.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None. I was in a coma.  Then was induced into a coma for fear of brain swelling. Not sure how long it was induced.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time. No speed! No Slow! No Time! Only  'Being'

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My visions are non-earthly. I see way past the human eye. I am a hypersensitive empath and have heightened Psychic abilities. I have always had this but now study ways to draw it out. I am a born healer.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It took me about a year or so before I could get a grip on who I was before. I am not the same! I believe my physical hearing was close to the same but again with a broken jaw and head trauma I had a lot of healing to do.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Everything was more of waves of energy. Colors and vibrations.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     I was not separate from anything there including others on earth or died.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The colors were attached to vibrations and they were unearthly and intensely vibrant. They moved with the vibrations of energy. There is no word of color here for this experience what we perceive as color.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     The 'I' was all that is.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was not there I was floating up into the light! Just try to imagine feeling no separation from anything you ever knew or loved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Yes, I cannot explain this in words to make any human remotely understand the impact on human nature that unfolds when taken to other higher dimensions of existence. Each one unique to its own.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Uncertain but I do remember healing people in the hospital out of my body. Also helping them cross over.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My Guardian Angel lead me back into my body! I may have put up a fight at this time. I remember how uncomfortable I started feeling when physically trying to reconnect to human form. They had to strap me down in bed. I was trying to scream with a wired shut mouth on the seventh day in ICU. I think I was out of my body for seven days until then. I was behind the doctors when they were operating on my jaw. I heard opera music too.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Undenominational born again Christian. Church of God of prophecy. This was the religion my parents brought me up in from a babe.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not go to the church but am closer to God and more spiritual than ever. I go to actual healing groups in people's homes. We heal each other and the world together

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I believe in all walks of faith and belief systems of a higher vibrational loving light power. There is indeed only one "I AM " and this is the power and splendid energy that rules all creation.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I am NOT judgmental of people and what they see as truth. We all see things in different mindsets and frequency levels that are needed at the time and place in our life. We are unique to the world

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I am a healer and an Angelic light worker. My only goal is to please God and save others from harming their self or others.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I intensely felt the presence of God and his army of light. It was as if I was the arm of the puzzle of all created things.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I felt many distinct energies that flow into this one source of light and that is the energy that was pulling me into it along with the other distinct colorfully beautiful light energies (Angels). Like a melting pot of indescribable magnificence.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I have always existed as a part of this patterned energy.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Magically created we are all one with a chosen will. We will make a choice to connect to our other parts as they fit together universally(LoVe). Transforming the universal knowledge bank into the all of everything created Merging by choice with our creato

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes the all Mighty is real and controls the heavens, planets, galixsys, It is the infinity of everything. The beginning and end in earthly words!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know things I do not know I know

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     No one is single or separate from

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I realized that we are all energy created from this one energy source that will always exist in the vibrational patterns of our desired will.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No     WE are spiritual being living in a human expereance

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No     Do not separate things

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     You are love and love is Gods vibrational energy. Without God you have no love. It can not exist in lower vibrational frequencies.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I was always a caring person but now all those feelings are heightened ten fold. I have found a source within that will draw me into my authentic natal self that is surprisingly much like Jesus, Buddha and other amazing super heroes in history.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes It is hard for others too with this change. Husband, children, friends. I spend a lot of time alone  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The Earthly Human words and feelings mean nothing in comparison to tuning into the all of everything. There are no feelings or words to even honor this question. All I can say is look into my face and see if something resonates with the other parts of God's puzzle. 'You' and 'I' fit into the 'I AM' of everything created.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the out of body fluently

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I believe they were always there but now they cannot be held back from the unawareness of them. I think I still have some undiscovered gifts yet to blossom.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being sucked into the light of all creation!! That just about says it!!! I will never be the same. THank GOd!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They think it is a side effect of post-traumatic stress disorder

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   not much other than what I was taught of heaven and hell.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      I was out of life in many ways after. Remember, I could not talk or eat for two months.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am a believer in the unknown and invisible powers that be.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   no

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life begins where it ends

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Namaste~LoVe  

  Experience Description 22437  					  					It was a motor bike accident. Flew of the back and hit something, a reflector cut my head, broke my jaw, and then I hit the ditch very hard and was lying in water. I lost three pints of blood with a cut above my left ear by the hair line. My friend was there trying to tell me to stay with her and everything would be ok. I stayed for a bit but my soul passed the life flight when it was flung down on me. I died and they came and resuscitated me and that is the only reason I am back here on this planet. I heard and saw almost everything. I see the flashing cop lights and hear the radios and people talking, telling me to stay but I felt wonderful out of my body. I want to go back. I try to meditate and leave my body all the time. It feels safe and calm.

I could never described this and have you understand! It is not in our vocabulary. The feeling is something we do not feel here. You would say it is not real and yet it is more real then you will ever know here on this planet in this time in space. It is so close and simple yet so far away, so close but untouchable. I spend all my time and concentration on feeling just a touch of that incredibleness, but cannot seem to reach the same feeling I remember. Sometimes in my sleep or meditation, I will start to feel some separation from my body and I love that! I do not fear! I have sprite guides and the universal divine to protect me. I was there and know I will go back again someday.  I am not afraid. I would walk around the hospital outside my body watching and talking to the very sick people. I think I may have healed a few of them. Because of my memory problems and having my mouth wired shut, I could not talk. I could not ask questions about what was happening to me and people knew I could not talk to them so I separated myself from my body so I could follow people and talk to sick people. I would scream a night in ICU and they had to strap me down because I did not think there was anything wrong with me and NEEDED to go to work and home. They would not let me up so I left my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Nov. 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery on my broken jaw wiring my mouth totally shut after the accident and ICU 7 days  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I believe I died wile they were resuscitating me. They physically kept me alive. My soul was out of my body in the light looking down at them with eyes and ears.  My husband and I were together on a motor bike and hit head on a car and we both flew off. I hit something. A reflector cut my head, then my head hit the ditch and I was lying in water bleeding from the head (three pints). I saw them resuscitating me and putting the tube in my thought. I saw it all and heard them as well.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I am a spirit attached to this person Renee but we go places together.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious. In and out at first. Then at hospital, I was induced to stop the swelling. I still was outside my body the whole time even some time when I first got home. I still think I am just watching Renee make movies.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I still do. I was and still am a time warp.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the life flight. Beeps of radios and phones. Someone talking fast and loud. I felt the air moving around me but I was way up over my body in the light looking down. Not afraid peaceful floating light. I felt spirits around me but saw nothing but white, yellow, gold light.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I just felt the light and spirits around me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     I felt them.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Mostly white, with some yellows and gold.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt no pain.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I had a lot of memory loss and for a while. I did not know who I was. I sill to this day know I am not the same person I was before this happened. The feelings were sadness, lost, a lot of floating though the day and sleep, time warp, time flew by about a year and half before I went back to work.  Everyone knows I am different.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I care for myself and people on a totally different plane. An unexplained deeper love. I believe we are all connected and need to help each other and our planet. I am much more grateful and loving on a deeper level than most people even understand.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I tried to move things in the hospital. Also when they put me under to fix my badly broken jaw. As I was under I heard everything! The tools clicking the doctor's breathing. I was standing outside my body watching them fix my jaw. I was right behind them in the room. I felt NO PAIN!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I cannot put it in words for it has no words that fit! I was in the light and wanted to stay. I knew that my family, son, husband and friends would be fine and I knew I would feel them again soon so I was so comfortable with what I knew. NO FEAR OF ANYTHING! I could not leave but something sent me back? to this place?

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I did not want to come back to earth and that is where the body was. Something pushed me back into my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I seek information on all kind of things. Religious beliefs changed and broadened.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   People will not understand and there are no words to explain it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A big awareness wake up to the point of changing me totally! Allowing my subconscious mind to take control of my decisions. Some were very good and some were very bad. I healed myself.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best I cannot put into words. If I could it would be, ‘better than heaven.’  The worst is feeling misplaced and not remembering a lot of things.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Somewhat, but no one I know understands and thinks I am messed up from it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   A very long time ago. Ecstasy. I will never forget it!    </h5>  				    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1renee_m_nde.html