{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1renee_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Renee W NDE 22306","mylang":"de"}
          	        Renee W NDE 22306  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Renee W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2436 Renee W NDE 22306  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Sunday afternoon on a beautiful sunny day in Georgia, my family and friends were at a local lake. I was five years old and I was playing at the edge of the water. I saw some of my family out further in the water so I joined them. When I got to them, they instructed me to go back to the shallow water. I started to go back to the edge, and all of a sudden, I was in very deep water. I was looking up and I saw a boat motor about five or six feet over my head, then I was pulled up from the back and I could see a little girl at the bottom of the water. Her hair was gently waving in the water and the little girl was in trouble and I felt very concerned, but did not realize that the tiny child was me. 

I was pulled backwards out of the water, but I did not feel cold or wet. I felt like I was one with the world. Just energy or air. I could see the boat, and the water getting smaller and smaller. I was amazed because I had never seen things from the sky looking down before. 

I felt so light and had such a wonderful sense of union and belonging. 

As I started to turn toward away from the lake and to see where I was being pulled. I was choking and vomiting water. I felt heavy and sick, and I looked up and saw my uncle in a suit dripping from the water

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer of 1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  I was swimming with my family and friends, I went in too deep and I drown  Clinical death   I would have died had my uncle not rescued me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could not see what image I took, but I do know that my body was at the bottom of the lake.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious, however I did not recognized myself as the little girl.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I did not move as before. I had no arms or legs. It was like I was energy or wind. I don't remember smell or touch; I remember sight and a different feeling, like knowing without being told. Like being one with the universe.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Awe and sadness for the drowning child.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was very young. It felt like I just knew things that I had never been told.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Absolutely not I was out of my body. Then I was in it vomiting water.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I felt I was alone in my knowledge because no one ever talked about the drowning.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not have the vocabulary to express the experience as a child. I wanted to say I was energy. One with the universe. I will never forget the feeling. A wonderful gift to know there is more to come.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have insight that other people don't seem to have. I know some things that seem obvious to me that are not obvious to other people. If I try to explain how I know they still don't see it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling I had 'in the air', was the best part. Returning to my body I could feel the pain of the burning in my lungs and nose as the water was coming out.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared it, but I do not have any idea if anyone was influenced. I have had different reactions. Some very positive and some very negative, but mostly just interested in the bizarre.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I have had a dream that was a lot like it but did not take meds or substances. It was a dream where I was pulled into an area and I was supposed to help open a door for this black man with large girth. I could not decide whether to help him or not. And I awoke before I could finish assisting him. The dream has never come back.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just that it was the greatest gift I have ever been given. To know never have to wonder if there is life after death. It never crosses my mind, because I absolutely know that there is more, and that is more than enough for me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think if you broke the senses down to ask a question about each of them it would help. Thank you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1renee_w_nde.html