{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rf_nde.html","mytitle":"RF NDE 2910","mylang":"de"}
          	        RF NDE 2910  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					RF NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1039  RF NDE  2910  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I heard wonderful music, and saw a tunnel of light that I traversed at a dazzling speed. The tunnel ended in a sort of entrance with various entities, known to me, with whom I communicated through a sort of thought. They were like guides and helped the 'souls' across a river (Styx?). Bubbles rose from the basin and floated into the universe.  All of the bubbles were filled with something. Suddenly a beautiful bright light passed by and everybody fell to their knees and praised that Light. I was about to go through a door of sorts (beautiful music came from behind it) when my name was called and I was allowed to return. Right before I arrived, I had a vision of blinds closing and I knew I was stone-deaf. I am sure now that there's more than our current world. Scientists are busy researching our consciousness; also in quantum physics, people are trying to solve the riddle of 'Life'. It is quite logical that the great avatars spoke of God and related subjects. Imagine that back then they were already talking about quantum leaps and nanotechnology, among other things. Nobody could have understood that then, but science and religion are converging more and more now. Our thoughts are faster than thousand times the speed of light (300.000 km per second). So we can 'find' everything in our universe, even God.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness      meningitis  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in coma for four weeks, with twenty-three tubes sticking out of me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All these new 'situations' were not unfamiliar to me and music was just fantastic. I was called back but I found that irritating. I was told that my time had not come yet.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very high, it was like everything was known and familiar to me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It was as if it was all very familiar to me.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Communication was not with words but a kind of telepathic language.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went through it at enormous speed and saw a wonderful light, hearing fantastic music.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There are familiar entities there that guided you and showed the way. Communication was telepathic.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Especially at the end of the tunnel, were there was a sort of door you went through. A wonderful light shone to greet you. It was in that place where the (filled) oval shapes rose up and floated into the universe.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Een prachtig landschap aan de overkant van een brede rivier geweldig mooie kleuren en die muziek(fantastisch)  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A marvelous coherence and a feeling of enormous bliss (just like being home).  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Not really, I have not looked into the subject, but sometimes I have paranormal experiences.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My habits not really, but definitely my respect for everything that is.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'liberaal omdat alles coherent is,maar het vertalen naar ieders cultuut toe'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My habits not really, but definitely my respect for everything that is.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   There I learned that this 'life' is not everything. There is no 'garbage dump' in the universe, everything is recycled, even our thoughts and emotions. The scientists talk about zero point energy.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more forgiving, more lighthearted and kinder. I learned to take a step back. Then you sometimes see the humor of the situation.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes, but I have had those experiences before my NDE. I stayed clear of the subject, because it can be tricky to talk about it.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Styx, the oval shapes (or circles) floating upwards, the Light, the Music and various familiar people there.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    To my wife, of course. Just telling her what I had experienced. You think you are lying there in a coma, doing nothing; you are actually quite 'busy'.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I read about it and thought that it would be possible.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is like returning from a wonderful holiday. You experienced it and people around me spoke about my personality being different.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Just like dreaming. Many people talk about dreams being not real, but try to explain people interpreting dreams and that in your sleep your consciousness can be in other dimensions?  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That everything is connected and coherent, and that there is more to our universe than some scientists would claim. After all, we do have only five senses. Some scientists say that we live in a sort of primal soup, there is a world that is much smaller than the atom world.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How do you think about death?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rf_nde.html