{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1renata_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Renata W NDE 7996","mylang":"de"}
          	        Renata W NDE 7996  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Renata W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4176 Renata W NDE 7996  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After being transported by ambulance to the hospital, the doctor left me sitting in the hallway for a long time. My husband was with me and wondered why it was taking them so long.

I was taken to a room and they inserted a syringe and tubing. What was in them, I do not know, but when I was transferred to the hospital, I had a blood glucose of around 5. That evening I had a near-death experience due to the fact that my blood sugar at that time was already 56. Laboratory results showed that my blood contained no minerals and that the blood density was almost like syrup. Overall, I had a heart attack three times, but only after the third time was I able to be revived; resuscitation lasted about five minutes, then my heartbeat “leaped back”. However, I was in a coma for nearly two weeks.

Actually, I enjoyed the fact that I saw everything. I remember that after I woke up from the coma, I met a lady whom I saw as a patient while I was outside my body. She began to relate to me what had gone wrong with me and what the doctors did to me, and I told her that I saw it all. She looked at me like I was crazy and told me that I could not see because I was resuscitated more than once, but I remember that, at that time, I was sitting on the header of a metal bed, but as if it were very high, and at one point, was even near the ceiling. I was looking over my feet, downward. During this whole scene, I saw all that happened in the room: doctors shouting over each other, and at nurses and I was observing all calmly and wondering why they acted in such a manner, as I was okay.

The odd thing is that I saw the limp body, the dead body but also the soul, when I was looking over my feet, downward. I was fascinated by everything around my dead body. I still did not understand.

I thought that the soul was a clear glass, but it was not.

I saw no dead ancestors or other faces, no lights or tunnels. I felt peace and tranquility, as if I were on a cloud. Then, I was told that it was not yet my time. My heart began to pound again and I was sucked back into the body.

After the coma, I realized that I had lost a lot of memories; some stages of my life, I quite forgot, but some more resurfaced. I always had a photographic memory, but that became even sharper. I never felt a fear of death, but was carrying around the grief at the death of my beloved grandparents. From this point on, I started taking death as a basic, natural fact in human life, and I'm better with it.

Finally, one more little thing... when I was 20, I visited my father's guitar teacher. He told fortunes; it was in his family, he said. Everyone just knew how. He looked into my palm and told me that during my long life, I would die two times, but would come back. I had no reason not to believe. I remembered his words after it happened ... since I know that everyone has their destiny in their hands. The second death has not yet happened, but, if it occurs, it is not of concern.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  květen 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   As a diabetic, I was transferred to hospital after three days of vomiting, and brain death occurred on the same day in the evening (at the hospital).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See Experience  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was in awe of what I saw; I was curious… this word expresses exactly how I felt. However, I was calm and serene, too.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remembered all, after waking up.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision during the experience was sharper. It can be compared to when children paint with colored pencils and draw black pencil figures to bring out the drawing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I think that sounds in the room seemed to me as though they were muffled, and as if coming from a distance.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt beautiful. I felt calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   pokřtěná jako římská katolička

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I realized that this is my life and it will be what I make it.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   A voice told me that it was not yet my time.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Although I am still a person who willingly helps, I also finally began to think of my own needs, and learned to say no, which I could not do until then.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The only relationship that has changed was that I divorced my then-husband.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I don’t forget it. I do not even need to close my eyes to see it. I can see it just by thinking of it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was at least 10 years, until I thought about sharing it with anyone. I did not need to. I think about it a little bit skeptically, but one doctor told me that damage was expected to occur; I was monitored from the moment that I was out of my body; the monitoring device did not show any brain activity. How, then, would it be that I could remember everything?

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It absolutely happened; otherwise, I would not remember it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Probably not.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You can see that these questionnaires are translated from a foreign language; the questions are a little bumpy and the words don’t flow as beautifully and as flowery as Czech does.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1renata_w_nde.html