{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1remos_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Remos G NDE 340","mylang":"de"}
          	        Remos G NDE 340  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Remos G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1363 Remos G NDE 340  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was hit by a car and was thrown ten feet in the air and fifteen feet in front of the car.  I think the force of landing in the middle of the street brought me back or shocked the life back into me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  04/2383

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Hit by a car as a Pedestrian in Front of my Parents House  Hit by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was laying flat on my stomach suspended in mid-air surrounded by white light three hundred and sixty degrees as if on a operating table.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Shocked, alert and aware.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seems like I was in this other place for a very long time, like weeks, but it was only a matter of seconds here.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Joyous music and everything was communicated to me telepathically.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Yes.  The first one I met was one like in a hooded robe whom I knew immediately as someone who had been with me all my life. (I know for certain this was my guardian angel.) Next, a Godly figure appeared in front of me and as I raised my head in the lying position, I was given a choice of great pleasure (heaven) or great pain (returning to my body.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Described above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was given only a glimpse of the pure joy of what heaven would be.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was uncertain and scared at what was happening at first.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I had known what my destiny in life was to be, even at an early age, and based my decision to come back here, when I was given a choice on what I wanted to do at that moment.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Before I experienced the white bright light I could remember all at once my whole life from birth to that moment, good and bad, before I got hit by the car.  It was like seeing a movie in panoramic view all at once.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Described above.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before I was highly motivated.  I had the desire to become rich and famous but after that experience I no longer had any desire but to live out a simple life with really no goal in life but the desire and knowledge that I will face this decision again on my death bed and will hesitate to experience the joy for eternity.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Time slowed down considerably and it is hard to explain in an earthly dimension or in a third dimension.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had an odd gift since I was a kid about hearing a certain song (Don McLean's - American Pie) that if I heard the song unexpectedly on the radio, that someone in my family or someone close would die.  It became better tuned after the accident probably about nine or ten years ago when I heard the song, I the word Aunt popped into my head.  I then told a co-worker that every time I heard this song someone close to me dies, usually within forty-eight to seventy-two hours.  I then called my mother and was going to ask her about our ninety year old aunt, but before I could ask, she told me of an aunt who suddenly died just a few hours before on my dad's side of a stroke (1995).  The next experience was about six months later when again, I heard the song, and the word brother popped into my head.  I called my mother to check on my only brother and again before I could ask she told me of my step-dad's brother who had just had a stroke and they were flying up east to be with him. He passed away less than forty-eight hours later.  They watched him die and they said a big smile came across his face and tears ran down his cheeks right before he passed away. There are many more but the last that I will describe was two years ago and just recently a month ago.  Two years ago a neighbor and very close friend died in a car accident.  I remember being at work and hearing the song just as I was starting to work.  I looked across the room and told my co-worker about this song experience. Right after that, a strong chill went through my body.  It was a Friday and by that Monday, my friend was dead. When I returned to work the co-worker was spooked by this and asked that if I ever heard this song again to please tell him about it.  Last a month, while driving to Dallas I had the new version of this song by Madonna recorded on CD and heard it playing while on my road trip. My name popped into my head and I was a little worried about this but it turned out to be a friend of mine with the same name who died of cancer.  In conclusion, I tried to rid myself of this ability by buying the CD and playing it continuously.  It worked for a while, but I have come to the realization to accept this gift. I believe this NDE enhanced my gift and enhanced my sixth sense in other ways also.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing I had a choice but decided to come back because of my stupid destiny, which I have no desire to fill because of this NDE then and now.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    To close friends and family who wish to listen.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       One other thing. Before this accident, I was always a skinny runt. But a year after this accident a desire of mine to be tall and big was fulfilled.  At nineteen, I went from five feet ten inches tall to six feet two inches tall from one hundred and fifty pounds to two hundred and thirty pounds in a matter of six months.  I know in my heart that if this accident and experience had not occurred I would still be a lot smaller than I am today. Besides at my fifth year High School reunion no one recognized me at all.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1remos_g_nde.html