{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1renata_d_nde_9465.html","mytitle":"Renata D NDE 9465","mylang":"de"}
          	        Renata D NDE 9465  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Renata D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5088 Renata D NDE 9465  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On April 19, 1983, I had a motorcycle accident that changed my life.  I was serving in the Navy at the time and the accident happened outside the base.  The last thing I remember was getting ready to put my leg over the motorcycle.

  Later, I remember  seeing doctors and nurses in blue scrubs.  They were all around me getting ready to transfer me from the gurney to the bed.  I heard them count, "one, two, three." 

  Suddenly, I was floating above my body and was face-to-face with what I knew to be Jesus.  He was wearing a white robe and had brownish, gray hair.  I saw a light, the brightest illumination of white that overshadowed everything at that moment.  

  I felt such a peace that I've never felt before.  It was surreal.  Everything seemed to be at a standstill and there was no concept of time. It wasn't eerie or frightening to me.  The was the most amazing calm that I have ever encountered.  Some people say that in a near death experience they see their lives flash in front of them or see family members.  I didn't experience that.  Jesus stretched out his hand in front of me and said, "It's not your time yet."

  Then I came back into my body and have no other memories of the accident.      

  I am not afraid of dying as most people are, my thing is that I want to know how to do so next time. That might seem weird to some.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 04/19/1983  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening     

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It made me aware of how fragile life can be, and able to know how to be empathetic  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       being aware of the light, and Jesus being with me  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't know how much time went by, it could have been 5 min or it could have been a few hours, all time seemed not to have mattered  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was more illuminated  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was more clear  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was a most peaceful place, almost like a garden  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I didn't notice any emotions  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understood that I was saved  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   I was born Jewish and Romanian Orthodox.  I would attend synagogue on any given Sat, and then attend Greek Orthodox Church on any given Sun.  As that was the closest in respect to the Romanian religion.  I was basically dragged everywhere, and not taught anything about either religion.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have been Christian for many years now  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I have since started being a believer in Jesus after my accident and another major life event.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     As mentioned before, I was brought up Jewish, and Romanian Orthodox.  I think that in itself was confusing as I look back on that as an adult.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know that there is definetely a God after my experience  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered what I knew to be Jesus and that time, He told me clearly that It wasn't my time yet, and then disappeared as I went  back into my body  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I described it in above box  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew it was Jesus who told me it wasn't my time yet  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Since the accident my purpose is to take care of people.  I have been given the ability to volunteer with hospice as I can comfort those people in their time of need  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was not afraid of where I was, and I knew I was out of my body as it is on earth  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more aware of other people's feelings  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  My outer body experience was the pivitol point in my life as I look back.  I am more than grateful to God every day that I am alive.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I waited 5 years to share my experience for fear that people would think I was crazy.  I told my  mother first, and she really didn't believe me, and still does not today  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it as very real and life changing  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can explain it the same way each time, I don't have a fear of death til this day.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I can get that light at certain times, especially when I am deep in worship with God         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1renata_d_nde_9465.html